<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20150227_10-K_edgar_data_1099219_0000937834-15-000009_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>120870881</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1610564</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>35202415</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>32185543</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>35647837</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>14691517</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>280</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>31</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000937834-15-000009.hdr.sgml : 20150714

<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20150226192005

<PRIVATE-TO-PUBLIC>

ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000937834-15-000009

CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K

PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		269

CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20141231

FILED AS OF DATE:		20150227

DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20150616


FILER:


	COMPANY DATA:	

		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			METLIFE INC

		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001099219

		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	LIFE INSURANCE [6311]

		IRS NUMBER:				134075851

		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE

		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231



	FILING VALUES:

		FORM TYPE:		10-K

		SEC ACT:		1934 Act

		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-15787

		FILM NUMBER:		15654490



	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		1095 AVENUE OF AMERICAS

		CITY:			NEW YORK

		STATE:			NY

		ZIP:			10036

		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-578-5500



	MAIL ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		1095 AVENUE OF AMERICAS

		CITY:			NEW YORK

		STATE:			NY

		ZIP:			10036




</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000937834-15-000009.txt : 20150714

10-K
 1
 met-12312014x10k.htm
 10-K

MET-12.31.2014-10K 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 
  __________________________ 
  Form 10-K 
  (Mark One) 

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 
  or 

For the transition period from to  
  Commission file number 001-15787 
  MetLife, Inc. 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

(212) 578-2211 
  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                   Title of each class 
      
    Name of each exchange on which registered 
      Common Stock, par value $0.01 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 
      Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, par value $0.01 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 
      6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, par value $0.01 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 
      5.375% Senior Notes 
      
    Irish Stock Exchange 
      5.25% Senior Notes 
      
    Irish Stock Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes       No     
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. Yes       No     
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes       No     
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes       No     
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.     
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
                   Large accelerated filer     
      
    Accelerated filer     
      Non-accelerated filer      (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 
      
    Smaller reporting company     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes       No     
  The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant at   June 30, 2014   was approximately   $62.6 billion  . At February 23, 2015   1,117,440,997   shares of the registrant s common stock were outstanding. 
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain information from the registrant s definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 28, 2015, to be filed by the registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the year ended December 31, 2014. 

Table of Contents 

Page 
      Part I 
      Item 1. 
      
     Business  
      
    3 
      Item 1A. 
      
     Risk Factors  
      
    34 
      Item 1B. 
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
      
    63 
      Item 2. 
      
     Properties  
      
    64 
      Item 3. 
      
     Legal Proceedings  
      
    64 
      Item 4. 
      
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
      
    64 

Part II 
      Item 5. 
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
      
    65 
      Item 6. 
      
     Selected Financial Data  
      
    67 
      Item 7. 
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
      
    69 
      Item 7A. 
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
      
    168 
      Item 8. 
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
      
    177 
      Item 9. 
      
     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
      
    353 
      Item 9A. 
      
     Controls and Procedures  
      
    353 
      Item 9B. 
      
     Other Information  
      
    355 
        
      Part III 
      Item 10. 
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
      
    356 
      Item 11. 
      
     Executive Compensation  
      
    356 
      Item 12. 
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
      
    356 
      Item 13. 
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
      
    358 
      Item 14. 
      
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
      
    358 
        
      Part IV 
      Item 15. 
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
      
    359 

Signatures  
      
    360 

Exhibit Index  
      
    E-1 

Table of Contents  

   As used in this Form 10-K,  MetLife,  the  Company,   we,   our  and  us  refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates. 
  Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give expectations or forecasts of future events. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as  anticipate,   estimate,   expect,   project,   intend,   plan,   believe  and other words and terms of similar meaning, or are tied to future periods, in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in operations and financial results. 
  Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many such factors will be important in determining the actual future results of MetLife, Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates. These statements are based on current expectations and the current economic environment. They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties, and other factors that might cause such differences include the risks, uncertainties and other factors identified in MetLife, Inc. s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors include: (1) difficult conditions in the global capital markets; (2) increased volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets, which may affect our ability to meet liquidity needs and access capital, including through our credit facilities, generate fee income and market-related revenue and finance statutory reserve requirements and may require us to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in value of specified assets, including assets supporting risks ceded to certain of our captive reinsurers or hedging arrangements associated with those risks; (3) exposure to financial and capital market risks, including as a result of the disruption in Europe and possible withdrawal of one or more countries from the Euro zone; (4) impact of comprehensive financial services regulation reform on us, as a non-bank systemically important financial institution, or otherwise; (5) numerous rulemaking initiatives required or permitted by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act which may impact how we conduct our business, including those compelling the liquidation of certain financial institutions; (6) regulatory, legislative or tax changes relating to our insurance, international, or other operations that may affect the cost of, or demand for, our products or services, or increase the cost or administrative burdens of providing benefits to employees; (7) adverse results or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations; (8) potential liquidity and other risks resulting from our participation in a securities lending program and other transactions; (9) investment losses and defaults, and changes to investment valuations; (10) changes in assumptions related to investment valuations, deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements, value of business acquired or goodwill; (11) impairments of goodwill and realized losses or market value impairments to illiquid assets; (12) defaults on our mortgage loans; (13) the defaults or deteriorating credit of other financial institutions that could adversely affect us; (14) economic, political, legal, currency and other risks relating to our international operations, including with respect to fluctuations of exchange rates; (15) downgrades in our claims paying ability, financial strength or credit ratings; (16) a deterioration in the experience of the  closed block  established in connection with the reorganization of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company; (17) availability and effectiveness of reinsurance or indemnification arrangements, as well as any default or failure of counterparties to perform; (18) differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions; (19) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures; (20) catastrophe losses; (21) increasing cost and limited market capacity for statutory life insurance reserve financings; (22) heightened competition, including with respect to pricing, entry of new competitors, consolidation of distributors, the development of new products by new and existing competitors, and for personnel; (23) exposure to losses related to variable annuity guarantee benefits, including from significant and sustained downturns or extreme volatility in equity markets, reduced interest rates, unanticipated policyholder behavior, mortality or longevity, and the adjustment for nonperformance risk; (24) our ability to address difficulties, unforeseen liabilities, asset impairments, or rating agency actions arising from business acquisitions, including our acquisition of American Life Insurance Company and Delaware American Life Insurance Company, and integrating and managing the growth of such acquired businesses, or arising from dispositions of businesses or legal entity reorganizations; (25) regulatory and other restrictions affecting MetLife, Inc. s ability to pay dividends and repurchase common stock; (26) MetLife, Inc. s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends; (27) the possibility that MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors may influence the outcome of stockholder votes through the voting provisions of the MetLife Policyholder Trust; (28) changes in accounting standards, practices and/or policies; (29) increased expenses relating to pension and postretirement benefit plans, as well as health care and other employee benefits; (30) inability to protect our intellectual property rights or claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others; (31) inability to attract and retain sales representatives; (32) provisions of laws and our incorporation documents may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and corporate combinations involving MetLife; (33) the effects of business disruption or economic contraction due to disasters such as terrorist attacks, cyberattacks, other hostilities, or natural catastrophes, including any related impact on the value of our investment portfolio, our disaster recovery systems, cyber- or other information security systems and management continuity planning; (34) the effectiveness of our programs and practices in avoiding giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks; and (35) other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in MetLife, Inc. s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 
  MetLife, Inc. does not undertake any obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if MetLife, Inc. later becomes aware that such statement is not likely to be achieved. Please consult any further disclosures MetLife, Inc. makes on related subjects in reports to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 
    Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts 
  See  Exhibit Index   Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts  for information regarding agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
    2 

       Table of Contents  

   Part I 
    Item 1. Business 
  Index to Business 

3 

       Table of Contents  

   Overview 
  As used in this Form 10-K,  MetLife,  the  Company,   we,   our  and  us  refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates. 
  We have grown to become a global provider of life insurance, annuities, employee benefits and asset management. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we hold leading market positions in the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Over the past several years, we have grown our core businesses, as well as successfully executed on our growth strategy. This has included completing a number of transactions that have resulted in the acquisition and, in some cases, divestiture of certain businesses while also further strengthening our balance sheet to position MetLife for continued growth. 
  MetLife is organized into six segments, reflecting three broad geographic regions: Retail; Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits; Corporate Benefit Funding; and Latin America (collectively, the  Americas  Asia; and Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ). In addition, the Company reports certain of its results of operations in Corporate   Other, which includes MetLife Home Loans LLC ( MLHL ), the surviving, non-bank entity of the merger of MetLife Bank, National Association ( MetLife Bank ) with and into MLHL, and other business activities. Management continues to evaluate the Company s segment performance and allocated resources and may adjust related measurements in the future to better reflect segment profitability. See    Segments and Corporate   Other,   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Executive Summary   Consolidated Company Outlook  and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Company s segments and Corporate   Other. 
  In November 2014, MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut ( MICC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc., re-domesticated from Connecticut to Delaware, changed its name to MetLife Insurance Company USA and merged with its subsidiary, MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company ( MLI-USA ), and its affiliate, MetLife Investors Insurance Company ( MLIIC ), each a U.S. insurance company that issued variable annuity products in addition to other products, and Exeter Reassurance Company, Ltd. ( Exeter ), a former offshore, reinsurance subsidiary of MetLife, Inc. and affiliate of MICC that mainly reinsured guarantees associated with variable annuity products (the  Mergers ). The surviving entity of the Mergers was MetLife Insurance Company USA ( MetLife USA ). See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Executive Summary   Other Key Information   Significant Events  for further information on the Mergers. 
  In the first quarter of 2014, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its wholly-owned subsidiary, MetLife Assurance Limited ( MAL ). The sale of MAL was completed in May 2014. As a result, the operations of MAL have been classified as divested business for all periods presented. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  In the fourth quarter of 2013, MetLife, Inc. completed its acquisition of Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones Provida S.A. ( ProVida ), the largest private pension fund administrator in Chile based on assets under management and number of pension fund contributors. The acquisition of ProVida supports the Company's growth strategy in emerging markets and further strengthens the Company's overall position in Chile. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Certain international subsidiaries have a fiscal year cutoff of November 30   th   . Accordingly, the Company s consolidated financial statements reflect the assets and liabilities of such subsidiaries as of November 30, 2014 and 2013 and the operating results of such subsidiaries for the years ended November 30, 2014, 2013 and 2012. The Company is in the process of converting to calendar year reporting for these subsidiaries. We expect to substantially complete these conversions by 2016. The impact of the conversions on our financial statements to date has been de minimis and, therefore, has been reported in net income in the quarter of conversion.  
  In the U.S., we provide a variety of insurance and financial services products, including life, dental, disability, property   casualty, guaranteed interest, stable value and annuities, through both proprietary and independent retail distribution channels, as well as at the workplace.  
  Outside the U.S., we provide life, medical, dental, credit and other accident   health insurance, as well as annuities, endowment and retirement   savings products to both individuals and groups. We believe these businesses will continue to grow more quickly than our U.S. businesses. 
  Revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10% of consolidated premiums, universal life and investment-type product policy fees and other revenues for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. Financial information, including revenues, expenses, operating earnings, and total assets by segment, as well as premiums, universal life and investment-type product policy fees and other revenues by major product groups, is provided in Note   2   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating revenues and operating earnings are performance measures that are not based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ). See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures  for definitions of such measures. 
    4 

       Table of Contents  

   For financial information related to revenues, total assets, and goodwill balances by geographic region, see Notes   2   and   11   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  We are one of the largest institutional investors in the U.S. with a $516.8 billion general account portfolio invested primarily in investment grade corporate bonds, structured finance securities, commercial and agricultural mortgage loans, U.S. Treasury and agency securities, as well as real estate and corporate equity at December 31, 2014. Over the past several years, we have taken a number of actions to further diversify and strengthen our general account portfolio. 
  Our well-recognized brand, leading market positions, competitive and innovative product offerings and financial strength and expertise should help drive future growth and enhance shareholder value, building on a long history of fairness, honesty and integrity. Over the course of the next several years, we will pursue the following objectives to position the Company for continued growth and achieve our vision of being recognized as the leading global life insurance and employee benefits provider: 

Refocus the U.S. businesses 

Shift product mix away from capital intensive products 

Invest in growth initiatives for the voluntary/worksite, accident   health, and direct channels 

Drive margin improvement 

Build the Global Employee Benefits business 

Accelerate our local employee benefits businesses in key markets outside the U.S. 

Grow our global benefits businesses through multinational and expatriate solutions 

Grow emerging markets presence 

Accelerate earnings in emerging markets in which we already have a strong presence 

Seek opportunistic mergers and acquisitions to complement our organic growth 

Drive toward customer centricity and a global brand 

Further institutionalize customer centric actions and culture at MetLife 

Grow consideration and preference for MetLife s brand in key markets 

5 

       Table of Contents  

   Segments and Corporate   Other 
  Americas 
  Overview 
  Our businesses in the Americas offer a broad range of protection products and services aimed at serving the financial needs of our customers throughout their lives. These products are sold to individuals and corporations, as well as other institutions, and their respective employees. 
  Retail 
  Our Retail segment is organized into two businesses: Life   Other and Annuities. 
  The major products within Life   Other are as follows: 
  Variable Life.   Variable life products provide insurance coverage through a contract that gives the policyholder flexibility in investment choices and, depending on the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with certain guarantees. Most importantly, with variable life products, premiums and account balances can be directed by the policyholder into a variety of separate account investment options or directed to the Company s general account. In the separate account investment options, the policyholder bears the entire risk of the investment results. We collect specified fees for the management of the investment options. The policyholder s cash value reflects the investment return of the selected investment options, net of management fees and insurance-related and other charges. In some instances, third-party money management firms manage these investment options. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience. 
  Universal Life.   Universal life products provide insurance coverage on the same basis as variable life, except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated balances, are allocated only to the Company s general account. We credit premiums to an account maintained for the policyholder. Premiums are credited net of specified expenses. Interest is credited to the policyholder s account at interest rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. Specific charges are made against the policyholder s account for the cost of insurance protection and for expenses. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience. 
  Term Life.   Term life products provide a guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured for a specified time period in return for the periodic payment of premiums. Specified coverage periods range from one year to 30 years, but in no event are they longer than the period over which premiums are paid. Death benefits may be level over the period or decreasing. Premiums may be guaranteed at a level amount for the coverage period or may be non-level and non-guaranteed. Term insurance products are sometimes referred to as pure protection products, in that there are typically no savings or investment elements. Term contracts expire without value at the end of the coverage period when the insured party is still living. 
  Whole Life.   Whole life products provide a guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured in return for the periodic payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined period. Premium payments may be required for the entire life of the contract period, to a specified age or period, and may be level or change in accordance with a predetermined schedule. Whole life insurance includes policies that provide a participation feature in the form of dividends. Policyholders may receive dividends in cash or apply them to increase death benefits, increase cash values available upon surrender or reduce the premiums required to maintain the contract in-force. Because the use of dividends is specified by the policyholder, this group of products provides significant flexibility to individuals to tailor the product to suit their specific needs and circumstances, while at the same time providing guaranteed benefits. 
  Disability.   Disability products provide a benefit in the event of the disability of the insured. In most instances, this benefit is in the form of monthly income paid until the insured reaches age 65. In addition to income replacement, the product may be used to provide for the payment of business overhead expenses for disabled business owners or mortgage payment protection. 
  Property   Casualty.   These products include personal lines property   casualty insurance offered to individuals through a variety of retail distribution channels, including independent agents, property   casualty specialists, and the MetLife Premier Client Group. 
  Auto insurance policies provide coverage for private passenger automobiles, utility automobiles and vans, motorcycles, motor homes, antique or classic automobiles and trailers. We also offer traditional coverage such as liability, uninsured motorist, no fault or personal injury protection, as well as collision and comprehensive insurance. 
    6 

       Table of Contents  

   Homeowners  insurance policies provide protection for homeowners, renters, condominium owners and residential landlords against losses arising out of damage to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well as coverage for liability arising from ownership or occupancy. Other insurance includes personal excess liability (protection against losses in excess of amounts covered by other liability insurance policies), and coverage for recreational vehicles and boat owners. Most of our homeowners  policies are traditional insurance policies for dwellings, providing protection for loss on a  replacement cost  basis. These policies also provide additional coverage for reasonable, normal living expenses incurred by policyholders that have been displaced from their homes. 
  Other.   Additionally, through our broker-dealer affiliates, we offer a full range of mutual funds and other securities products. The elimination of transactions from activity between the segments within the Americas occurs within Life   Other. 
  Our Annuities business offers a variety of variable and fixed annuities that are primarily sold to individuals and tax-qualified groups in the education, healthcare and not-for-profit sectors.  
  The major products within Annuities are as follows: 
  Variable Annuities.   Variable annuities provide for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Variable annuities allow the contractholder to make deposits into various investment options in a separate account, as determined by the contractholder. The risks associated with such investment options are borne entirely by the contractholder, except where guaranteed minimum benefits are involved. In certain variable annuity products, contractholders may also choose to allocate all or a portion of their account to the Company s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. In addition, contractholders may also elect certain minimum death benefit and minimum living benefit guarantees for which additional fees are charged and where asset allocation restrictions may apply. 
  Fixed Annuities.   Fixed annuities provide for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Fixed annuities do not allow the same investment flexibility provided by variable annuities, but provide guarantees related to the preservation of principal and interest credited. Deposits made into deferred annuity contracts are allocated to the Company s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. Credited interest rates are guaranteed not to change for certain limited periods of time, ranging from one to 10 years. Fixed income annuities provide a guaranteed monthly income for a specified period of years and/or for the life of the annuitant. 
  Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits 
  We have built a leading position in the U.S. group insurance market through long-standing relationships with many of the largest corporate employers in the U.S.  
  Our Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits insurance products and services include life, dental, group short- and long-term disability, property   casualty, long-term care ( LTC ), accidental death and dismemberment ( AD D ), critical illness and accident   health coverages, as well as prepaid legal plans. We also sell administrative services-only ( ASO ) arrangements to some employers. Under such ASO arrangements, the employer is at risk, as we have not issued an insurance policy. We pay claims funded by the employer and perform other administrative services on behalf of the employer. 
  The major products within Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits are as follows: 
  Life.   Life insurance products and services include variable life, universal life, and term life products. These are similar to the products offered by the Retail Life   Other business except we offer group insurance products as employer-paid benefits or as voluntary benefits where all or a portion of the premiums are paid by the employee. These life insurance products and services also include employee paid supplemental life and are offered as standard products or may be tailored to meet specific customer needs. 
  Dental.   Dental products provide insurance and ASO arrangements that assist employees, retirees and their families in maintaining oral health while reducing out-of-pocket expenses and providing superior customer service. Dental plans include the Preferred Dentist Program and the Dental Health Maintenance Organization. 
  Disability.   Disability products provide a benefit in the event of the disability of the insured. In most instances, this benefit is in the form of monthly income paid until the insured reaches age 65. 
  Property   Casualty  . These products include personal lines property   casualty insurance offered directly to employees at their employer s worksite through a variety of distribution channels, including independent agents, property   casualty specialists and direct marketing. The property   casualty products offered by the Group, Voluntary   Worksite business are the same products offered by the Retail property   casualty business. 
    7 

       Table of Contents  

   Long-term Care.   LTC products provide protection against the potentially high costs of LTC services. They generally pay benefits to insureds who need assistance with activities of daily living or have a cognitive impairment. Although we discontinued the sale of these products in 2010, we continue to support our existing policyholders. 
  Corporate Benefit Funding 
  The Corporate Benefit Funding segment provides funding and financing solutions that help institutional customers mitigate and manage liabilities primarily associated with their qualified, nonqualified and welfare employee benefit programs using a spectrum of life and annuity-based insurance and investment products. 
  The major products within Corporate Benefit Funding are as follows: 
  Stable Value Products.   We offer general account guaranteed interest contracts, separate account guaranteed interest contracts, and similar products used to support the stable value option of defined contribution plans. We also offer private floating rate funding agreements that are used for money market funds, securities lending cash collateral portfolios and short-term investment funds. 
  General account guaranteed interest contracts are designed to provide stable value investment options within tax-qualified defined contribution plans. Traditional general account guaranteed interest contracts integrate a general account fixed or determinable fixed maturity investment with a general account guarantee of liquidity at contract value for participant transactions.  
  Separate account guaranteed interest contracts are available to defined contribution plan sponsors. These contracts integrate market value returns on separate account investments with a general account guarantee of liquidity at contract value to the extent the separate account assets are not sufficient. The contracts do not have a fixed maturity date and are terminable by each party on notice. 
  Private floating rate funding agreements are generally privately-placed, unregistered investment contracts issued as general account obligations. Interest is credited based on an external index, generally the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (also, LIBOR). Contracts may contain put provisions (of 90 days or longer) that allow for the contractholder to receive the account balance prior to the stated maturity date. 
  Pension Closeouts.   We offer general account and separate account annuity products, generally in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans. These risk transfer products include single premium buyouts that allow for full or partial transfers of pension liabilities. 
  General account annuity products include nonparticipating closeout contracts and terminal funding annuity contracts. Under nonparticipating closeout contracts, group annuity benefits may be purchased for retired and terminated employees or employees covered under terminating or ongoing pension plans. Both immediate and deferred annuities may be purchased by a single premium at issue. There are generally no cash surrender rights, with some exceptions including certain contracts that include liabilities for cash balance pension plans. A terminal funding contract is a nonparticipating group annuity contract that is available for purchasing guaranteed payout annuities for employees upon retirement or termination of employment. These annuities can be either life contingent or non-life contingent. These annuities are nonparticipating, do not provide for any loan or cash surrender value and, with few exceptions, do not permit future considerations. 
  Separate account annuity products include participating closeout contracts. Under participating closeout contracts, group annuity benefits are purchased for retired, terminated, or active employees covered under active or terminated pension plans. Both immediate and deferred fixed annuities are purchased with a single premium. Under some contracts, additional annuities may be periodically purchased at then current purchase rates. The assets supporting the guaranteed benefits for each contract are held in a separate account. Some contracts require the contractholder to make periodic payments to cover investment and insurance expenses. The Company fully guarantees benefit payments and is ultimately responsible for all benefit payments. 
  Torts and Settlements.   We offer innovative strategies for complex litigation settlements, primarily structured settlement annuities. 
  Structured settlement annuities are customized annuities designed to serve as an alternative to a lump sum payment in a lawsuit initiated because of personal injury, wrongful death, or a workers  compensation claim or other claim for damages. Surrenders are generally not allowed, although commutations are permitted in certain circumstances. Guaranteed payments consist of life contingent annuities, term certain annuities and lump sums. 
  Capital Markets Investment Products.   Products we offer include funding agreements, funding agreement-backed notes and funding agreement-backed commercial paper. We also issue funding agreements to receive Federal Home Loan Bank ( FHLB ) advances and through a program with the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation ( Farmer Mac ). 
    8 

       Table of Contents  

   Funding agreement-backed notes are part of a medium term note program, under which funding agreements are issued to a special-purpose trust that issues marketable notes in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies. The proceeds of the issuance of a series of notes are used by the trust to acquire a funding agreement with matching interest and maturity payment terms from the Company. The notes are underwritten and marketed by major investment banks  broker-dealer operations and are sold to institutional investors. 
  Funding agreement-backed commercial paper is issued by a special purpose limited liability company which deposits the proceeds under a master funding agreement issued to it by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ) or MetLife USA. The commercial paper receives the same short-term credit rating as MLIC or MetLife USA and is marketed by major investment banks  broker-dealer operations. The program allows for funding agreement-backed commercial paper to be issued in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies. 
  Through the Farmer Mac program, funding agreements have been issued by MLIC to Farmer Mac, as well as to certain special purpose entities ( SPEs ) that have issued debt securities for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements, and such debt securities are also guaranteed as to payment of interest and principal by Farmer Mac. 
  Other Corporate Benefit Funding Products and Services.   We offer specialized life insurance products and funding agreements designed specifically to provide solutions for funding postretirement benefits and company-, bank- or trust-owned life insurance used to finance nonqualified benefit programs for executives. 
  Latin America 
  We operate in seven countries in Latin America: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, and Uruguay. Our largest operations are in Mexico, Chile and Argentina. The Latin America segment includes U.S. sponsored direct business, comprised of group and individual products sold through sponsoring organizations and affinity groups. In addition to the various products discussed in other segments within the Americas, Latin America engages in the following businesses: 
  Accident   health insurance.   We offer group and individual major medical, accidental, and supplemental health products, including accidental death and disability, medical reimbursement, hospital indemnity and medical coverage for serious medical conditions. 
  Administradora de Fondos de Ahorro para el Retiro   (   AFORE )  . We offer a savings oriented pension product under the mandatory privatized social security system for all non-government employees. 
  Credit insurance  . We offer credit insurance policies designed to fulfill certain loan obligations in the event of the policyholder s death. 
  ProVida.   We offer a savings oriented pension product under a mandatory privatized social security system. See Note   3   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  Asia 
  We operate in 10 countries in Asia, with our largest operations in Japan and Korea. Other operations in Asia include Australia, Bangladesh, Hong Kong and Nepal, as well as unconsolidated operating joint ventures in China, Malaysia and Vietnam, the results of which are reflected in net investment income, and a consolidated operating joint venture in India. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Acquisitions and Dispositions  for information regarding our operations in Malaysia and Vietnam.  
  Our Asia segment engages in the following businesses: 
  Life insurance.   We offer both traditional and non-traditional life insurance products, such as whole life, term life, endowments, universal life and variable life products. We offer group life programs in most markets. 
  Accident   health insurance.   We offer individual and group personal accident and supplemental health products, including AD D, hospital indemnity, scheduled medical reimbursement plans, and coverage for serious medical conditions. In addition, we offer individual and group major medical coverage in select markets. 
  Retirement and savings products.   We offer both fixed and variable annuity products in select markets, with our largest markets in Japan, Korea and China. 
  Credit insurance.   We offer credit insurance policies designed to fulfill certain obligations in the event of the policyholder s death in select markets, including Japan, Australia and Bangladesh. 
    9 

       Table of Contents  

   EMEA 
  We operate in 29 countries across EMEA, with our largest operations in Poland, the Persian Gulf and Russia.  
  Our EMEA segment engages in the following businesses: 
  Life insurance.   We offer both traditional and non-traditional life insurance products, such as whole life, term life, endowments, universal life and variable life products. We offer group term life programs in most markets. 
  Accident   health insurance.   We offer individual and group personal accident and supplemental health products, including AD D, hospital indemnity, scheduled medical reimbursement plans, and coverage for serious medical conditions. In addition, we offer individual and group major medical coverage in select markets. 
  Retirement and savings products.   We offer both fixed and variable annuity products and pension products, including group pension programs in select markets. In Poland and Romania we offer through specialized pension companies a savings oriented pension product under the mandatory privatized social security systems. 
  Credit insurance.   We offer credit insurance policies designed to fulfill certain obligations in the event of the policyholder s death. 
  Corporate   Other 
  The Company reports certain of its results of operations in Corporate   Other, which includes MLHL and other business activities. See Note   3   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company s exit from the MetLife Bank businesses. Corporate   Other contains the excess capital, as well as certain charges and activities, not allocated to the segments, including external integration costs, internal resource costs for associates committed to acquisitions, enterprise-wide strategic initiative restructuring charges, various start-up businesses (including expatriate benefits insurance, our investment management business through which we offer fee-based investment management services to institutional clients, as well as direct and digital marketing products) and certain run-off businesses. Corporate   Other also includes assumed reinsurance of certain variable annuity products from our former operating joint venture in Japan. Under this in-force reinsurance agreement, we reinsure living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with variable annuity products. Additionally, Corporate   Other includes interest expense related to the majority of the Company s outstanding debt and expenses associated with certain legal proceedings and income tax audit issues. Corporate   Other also includes the elimination of intersegment amounts, which generally relate to intersegment loans, which bear interest rates commensurate with related borrowings. 
    Sales Distribution 
  Overview 
  In the Americas, excluding Latin America, we market our products and services through various distribution channels. Our retail life, disability and annuities products targeted to individuals are sold via sales forces, comprised of MetLife employees, as well as third-party organizations. Our group and corporate benefit funding products are sold via sales forces primarily comprised of MetLife employees. Personal lines property   casualty insurance products are directly marketed to employees at their employer s worksite. Personal lines property   casualty insurance products are also marketed and sold to individuals by independent agents, property   casualty specialists through a direct marketing channel, and via sales forces comprised of MetLife employees. MetLife sales employees work with all distribution channels to better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries. 
  In Asia, Latin America, and EMEA, we market our products and services through a multi-distribution strategy which varies by geographic region and stage of market development. The various distribution channels include: career agency, bancassurance, direct marketing, brokerage, other third-party distribution, and e-commerce. In developing countries, the career agency channel covers the needs of the emerging middle class with primarily traditional products (e.g., whole life, term, endowment and accident   health). In more developed and mature markets, career agents, while continuing to serve their existing customers to keep pace with their developing financial needs, also target upper middle class and mass affluent customer bases with a more sophisticated product set including more investment-sensitive products, such as universal life insurance, unit-linked life insurance, mutual funds and single premium deposit insurance. In the bancassurance channel, we have leveraged partnerships and developed extensive and far reaching capabilities in all regions. Our direct marketing operations, the largest of which is in Japan, deploy both broadcast marketing approaches (e.g. direct response TV, web-based lead generation) and traditional direct marketing techniques such as inbound and outbound telemarketing. 
    10 

     Table of Contents  

   Americas 
  Retail Distribution 
  Retail products are sold through a diverse set of distribution networks in order to maximize penetration in the market place. These include our MetLife Premier Client Group, third-party organizations and property   casualty specialists. 
  Our MetLife Premier Client Group targets the middle to upper income consumer market, including the executives of small- to medium-sized companies and small business owners. As of January 1, 2015, three formerly separate distribution channels, MetLife, New England Financial, and MetLife Resources, were unified under the MetLife Premier Client Group, which, consolidated, consisted of approximately 75 agencies and 4,000 career financial service representatives as of December 31, 2014. 
  We also sell Retail products through various third-party organizations. We distribute products through wholesalers working directly with high net worth individuals and small- to medium-sized businesses through independent general agencies, financial advisors, consultants, brokerage general agencies and other independent marketing organizations under contractual arrangements. Additionally, wholesalers sell through financial intermediaries, including regional broker-dealers, brokerage firms, financial planners and banks. 
  We market and sell property   casualty products through independent agents, property   casualty specialists, and the MetLife Premier Client Group. In recent years, we have increased the number of independent agents appointed to sell these products. 
  Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits Distribution 
  Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits distributes its products and services through a sales force that is segmented by the size of the target customer. Marketing representatives sell either directly to corporate and other group customers or through an intermediary, such as a broker or consultant. In addition, voluntary products are sold by specialists. Employers have been emphasizing voluntary products and, as a result, we have increased our focus on communicating and marketing to employees in order to further foster sales of those products. At December 31,   2014  , the Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits sales channels had more than 300 marketing representatives. 
  We are a leading provider of personal lines property   casualty insurance products offered to employees at their employer s worksite. Marketing representatives market personal lines property   casualty insurance products to employers through a variety of means, including broker referrals and cross-selling to group customers. Once permitted by the employer, MetLife commences marketing efforts to employees, enabling them to purchase coverage and to request payroll deduction over the telephone. 
  We have entered into several operating joint ventures and other arrangements with third parties to expand the marketing and distribution opportunities of Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits products and services. We also seek to sell our group products and services through sponsoring organizations and affinity groups. In addition, we also provide life and dental coverage to certain employees of the U.S. Government. 
  Corporate Benefit Funding Distribution 
  Corporate Benefit Funding products and services are distributed through dedicated sales teams and relationship managers located in 10 offices in the U.S. Products may be sold directly to benefit plan sponsors and advisors or through brokers, consultants or other intermediaries. In addition, these sales professionals work with individual, group and global distribution areas to better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries. 
  Latin America Distribution 
  Latin America s distribution channels include captive agents, direct marketing, bancassurance, large multinational brokers and small and medium-sized brokers, direct and group sales forces (mostly for group policies without broker intermediation), and worksite marketing. The region has an exclusive and captive agency distribution network with more than 4,200 agents also selling a variety of individual life, accident   health, and pension products. In the direct marketing channel, we work with 100 sponsors and have a network of more than 1,200 telesales representatives selling mainly accident   health and individual life products directly to consumers. We currently work with approximately 2,800 active brokers with registered sales of group and individual life, accident   health, group medical, dental and pension products. Worksite marketing in Mexico has over 3,300 agents. 
    11 

     Table of Contents  

   Asia 
  Japan s multi-channel distribution strategy consists of captive agents, independent agents, brokers, bancassurance, and direct marketing. While face-to-face channels continue to be core to Japan s business, other channels, including bancassurance and direct marketing, have become a critical part of Japan s distribution strategy. Our Japan operation has maintained its position in bancassurance due to its strong distribution relationship with Japan s mega banks, trust banks and various regional banks, as well as with the Japan Post. The direct marketing channel is supported by an industry-leading marketing platform, state-of-the-art call center infrastructure and its own campaign management system. 
  Our Japan operation has approximately 4,500 captive agents, 7,800 independent agents, 110 bancassurance relationships, including Japan Post, and 170 direct marketing sponsors. 
  Elsewhere in Asia, distribution strategies differ by country but generally utilize a combination of captive agents, bancassurance relationships and direct marketing. Agency sales are achieved through a force of approximately 47,700 agents and managers (which includes approximately 2,900 agents and managers related to our operating joint venture in China) and a growing force of independent general agents. Bancassurance is a growing channel with access to thousands of bank customers. 
  Throughout the region, our Asia operation leverages its expertise in direct marketing operations management to conduct its own campaigns and provide those direct marketing capabilities to third-party sponsors. 
  While not a significant part of the region s overall business, sales of group life and pension business are primarily achieved through independent brokers and an employee sales force. 
  EMEA 
  Our EMEA operations cover a wide geographical region from the developed markets of western Europe to the emerging markets of central, eastern and southern Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  
  Our businesses in western Europe have a multi-channel distribution strategy, including independent financial advisors, brokers, captive agents, direct marketing, banks and financial institutions. Our United Kingdom ( U.K. ) operation has built a strong position in the U.K. independent advisor sector with a focus on variable annuities. Our U.K. operation also has a growing group risk business serving small and medium sized employers. 
  Our operations in central, eastern and southern Europe employ a multi-channel distribution strategy, which includes significant face-to-face channels, built on a strong captive agency force of nearly 7,000 agents, and relationships with approximately 4,200 active brokers and third-party multi-level agency networks. We have distribution relationships with over 80 banks and other financial and non-financial institutions, as well as a fast growing direct marketing channel. This business also has a group/corporate direct sales force of more than 145 agents spanning all geographies. 
  Similarly, in the Middle East and Africa, we distribute products via a variety of channels, including approximately 1,825 agents, bancassurance, group brokers and direct marketing. Agency is our primary distribution channel, but bancassurance is growing, with over 50 relationships providing access to thousands of bank customers. 
    Policyholder Liabilities 
  We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined amounts that are calculated to meet policy obligations when a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to provide for future annuity payments. Our liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the investments we make with the premiums we receive. We establish liabilities for claims and benefits based on assumptions and estimates of losses and liabilities incurred. Amounts for actuarial liabilities are computed and reported in the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For more details on policyholder liabilities see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Liability for Future Policy Benefits  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Policyholder Liabilities.  
  Pursuant to applicable insurance laws and regulations, MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries establish statutory reserves, reported as liabilities, to meet their obligations on their respective policies. These statutory reserves are established in amounts sufficient to meet policy and contract obligations, when taken together with expected future premiums and interest at assumed rates. Statutory reserves and actuarial liabilities for future policy benefits generally differ based on accounting guidance. 
  U.S. state insurance laws and regulations require certain MetLife entities to submit to superintendents of insurance, with each annual report, an opinion and memorandum of a  qualified actuary  that the statutory reserves and related actuarial amounts recorded in support of specified policies and contracts, and the assets supporting such statutory reserves and related actuarial amounts, make adequate provision for their statutory liabilities with respect to these obligations. See    Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation   Policy and Contract Reserve Adequacy Analysis.  
  Insurance regulators in many of the non-U.S. countries in which we operate require certain MetLife entities to prepare a sufficiency analysis of the reserves presented in the locally required regulatory financial statements, and to submit that analysis to the regulatory authorities. See    Regulation   International Regulation.  
    12 

       Table of Contents  

   Underwriting and Pricing 
  Underwriting 
  Our Global Risk Management Department ( GRM ) contains a dedicated unit, the primary responsibility of which is the development of product pricing standards and independent pricing and underwriting oversight for MetLife s insurance businesses. Further important controls around management of underwriting and pricing processes include regular experience studies to monitor assumptions against expectations, formal new product approval processes, periodic updates to product profitability studies and the use of reinsurance to manage our exposures, as appropriate. See    Reinsurance Activity.  
  Underwriting generally involves an evaluation of applications by a professional staff of underwriters and actuaries, who determine the type and the amount of insurance risk that we are willing to accept. We employ detailed underwriting policies, guidelines and procedures designed to assist the underwriter to properly assess and quantify such risks before issuing policies to qualified applicants or groups. 
  Insurance underwriting considers not only an applicant s medical history, but also other factors such as financial profile, foreign travel, vocations and alcohol, drug and tobacco use. Group underwriting generally evaluates the risk characteristics of each prospective insured group, although with certain voluntary products and for certain coverages, members of a group may be underwritten on an individual basis. We generally perform our own underwriting; however, certain policies are reviewed by intermediaries under guidelines established by us. Generally, we are not obligated to accept any risk or group of risks from, or to issue a policy or group of policies to, any employer or intermediary. Requests for coverage are reviewed on their merits and a policy is not issued unless the particular risk or group has been examined and approved in accordance with our underwriting guidelines. 
  The underwriting conducted by our remote underwriting offices and intermediaries, as well as our corporate underwriting office, are subject to periodic quality assurance reviews to maintain high standards of underwriting and consistency. Such offices are also subject to periodic external audits by reinsurers with whom we do business. 
  We have established oversight of the underwriting process that facilitates quality sales and serves the needs of our customers, while supporting our financial strength and business objectives. Our goal is to achieve the underwriting, mortality and morbidity levels reflected in the assumptions in our product pricing. This is accomplished by determining and establishing underwriting policies, guidelines, philosophies and strategies that are competitive and suitable for the customer, the agent and us. 
  For our property   casualty business, our underwriting function has six principal aspects: evaluating potential voluntary and worksite employer accounts and independent agencies; establishing guidelines for the binding of risks; reviewing coverage bound by agents; underwriting potential insureds, on a case by case basis, presented by agents outside the scope of their binding authority; pursuing information necessary in certain cases to enable issuance of a policy within our guidelines; and ensuring that renewal policies continue to be written at rates commensurate with risk. 
  Subject to very few exceptions, agents in each of the distribution channels for the Americas business, excluding Latin America, have binding authority for risks which fall within our published underwriting guidelines. Risks falling outside the underwriting guidelines may be submitted for approval to the underwriting department; alternatively, agents in such a situation may call the underwriting department to obtain authorization to bind the risk themselves. In most states, we generally have the right within a specified period (usually the first 60 days) to cancel any policy. 
  Pricing 
  Product pricing reflects our corporate underwriting standards, which are consistent for our global businesses. GRM and regional product teams are responsible for product pricing oversight for all of our insurance businesses. Product pricing is based on the expected payout of benefits calculated through the use of assumptions for mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency and investment returns, as well as certain macroeconomic factors, such as inflation. Investment-oriented products are priced based on various factors, which may include investment return, expenses, persistency and optionality. For certain products, pricing may include prospective and retrospective experience rating features. Prospective experience rating involves the evaluation of past experience for the purpose of determining future premium rates and we bear all prior year gains and losses. Retrospective experience rating also involves the evaluation of past experience for the purpose of determining the actual cost of providing insurance for the customer; however, the contract includes certain features that allow us to recoup certain losses or distribute certain gains back to the policyholder based on actual prior years  experience. 
    13 

       Table of Contents  

   Rates for group insurance and voluntary   worksite products (with the exception of property   casualty products) are based on anticipated results for the book of business being underwritten. Renewals are generally reevaluated annually or biannually and are repriced to reflect actual experience on such products. Products offered by Corporate Benefit Funding are priced on demand. Pricing reflects expected investment returns, as well as mortality, longevity and expense assumptions appropriate for each product. This business is generally nonparticipating and illiquid, as policyholders have few or no options or contractual rights to cash values. 
  Rates for individual life insurance products are highly regulated and generally must be approved by the regulators of the jurisdictions in which the product is sold. Generally, such products are renewed annually and may include pricing terms that are guaranteed for a certain period of time. Individual disability income products are based on anticipated results for the occupation being underwritten. Fixed and variable annuity products are also highly regulated and approved by the respective regulators. Such products generally include penalties for early withdrawals and policyholder benefit elections to tailor the form of the product s benefits to the needs of the opting policyholder. We periodically reevaluate the costs associated with such options and will periodically adjust pricing levels on our guarantees. Further, from time to time, we may also reevaluate the type and level of guarantee features currently being offered. 
  Rates for our major lines of property   casualty insurance are based on our proprietary database, rather than relying on rating bureaus. We determine prices in part from a number of variables specific to each risk. The pricing of personal lines insurance products takes into account, among other things, the expected frequency and severity of losses, the costs of providing coverage (including the costs of acquiring policyholders and administering policy benefits and other administrative and overhead costs such as reinsurance), competitive factors and profit considerations. The major pricing variables for personal lines insurance include characteristics of the insured property, such as age, make and model or construction type, as well as characteristics of the insureds, such as driving record and loss experience, and the insured s personal financial management. 
  As a condition of our license to do business in each state, we, like all other personal lines insurers, are required to write or share the cost of private passenger automobile and homeowners insurance for higher risk individuals who would otherwise be unable to obtain such insurance. This  involuntary  market, also called the  shared market,  is governed by the applicable laws and regulations of each state, and policies written in this market are generally written at rates higher than standard rates and typically afford less coverage. 
  We continually review our underwriting and pricing guidelines so that our policies remain competitive and supportive of our marketing strategies and profitability goals. For our property   casualty business, our ability to set and change rates is subject to regulatory oversight. 
    Reinsurance Activity 
  We enter into reinsurance agreements primarily as a purchaser of reinsurance for our various insurance products and also as a provider of reinsurance for some insurance products issued by third parties. We participate in reinsurance activities in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to significant risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. We enter into various agreements with reinsurers that cover individual risks, group risks or defined blocks of business, primarily on a coinsurance, yearly renewable term, excess or catastrophe excess basis. These reinsurance agreements spread risk and minimize the effect of losses. The extent of each risk retained by us depends on our evaluation of the specific risk, subject, in certain circumstances, to maximum retention limits based on the characteristics of coverages. We also cede first dollar mortality risk under certain contracts. In addition to reinsuring mortality risk, we reinsure other risks, as well as specific coverages. We obtain reinsurance for capital requirement purposes and also when the economic impact of the reinsurance agreement makes it appropriate to do so. 
    14 

     Table of Contents  

   Under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer agrees to reimburse us for the ceded amount in the event a claim is paid. Cessions under reinsurance agreements do not discharge our obligations as the primary insurer. In the event that reinsurers do not meet their obligations under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, reinsurance recoverable balances could become uncollectible. 
  We reinsure our business through a diversified group of well-capitalized, highly rated reinsurers. We analyze recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes, if any, with our reinsurers. We monitor ratings and evaluate the financial strength of our reinsurers by analyzing their financial statements. In addition, the reinsurance recoverable balance due from each reinsurer is evaluated as part of the overall monitoring process. Recoverability of reinsurance recoverable balances is evaluated based on these analyses. We generally secure large reinsurance recoverable balances with various forms of collateral, including secured trusts, funds withheld accounts and irrevocable letters of credit. Additionally, we enter into reinsurance agreements for risk and capital management purposes with several affiliated captive reinsurers. Captive reinsurers are affiliated insurance companies licensed under specific provisions of insurance law of their respective jurisdictions, such as the Special Purpose Financial Captive law adopted by several states including Vermont and Delaware, and have a very narrow business plan that specifically restricts the majority or all of their activity to reinsuring business from their affiliates. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Capital   Affiliated Captive Reinsurance Transactions.   
  Americas - Excluding Latin America 
  For our Retail Life   Other insurance products, we have historically reinsured the mortality risk primarily on an excess of retention basis or on a quota share basis. We currently reinsure 90% of the mortality risk in excess of $2 million for most products. In addition to reinsuring mortality risk as described above, we reinsure other risks, as well as specific coverages. Placement of reinsurance is done primarily on an automatic basis and also on a facultative basis for risks with specified characteristics. On a case by case basis, we may retain up to $20 million per life and reinsure 100% of amounts in excess of the amount we retain. We evaluate our reinsurance programs routinely and may increase or decrease our retention at any time. 
  For our Retail Annuities business, we reinsure a portion of the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with our variable annuities. Under these reinsurance agreements, we pay a reinsurance premium generally based on fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and receive reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations. 
  For our Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segment, we generally retain most of the risk and only cede particular risk on certain client arrangements. The majority of our reinsurance activity within this segment relates to the following client agreements: 
             
    Employer sponsored captive programs: through these programs, employers buy a group life insurance policy with the condition that a portion of the risk is reinsured back to a captive insurer sponsored by the client. 
                
    Risk-sharing agreements: through these programs, clients require that we reinsure a portion of the risk back to third parties, such as minority-owned reinsurers. 
                
    Multinational pooling: through these agreements, employers buy many group insurance policies which are aggregated in a single insurer via reinsurance. 
     The risks ceded under these agreements are generally quota shares of group life and disability policies. The cessions vary from 50% to 90% of all the risks of the policies. 
  For our property   casualty business within both the Retail and Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segments, we purchase reinsurance to manage our exposure to large losses (primarily catastrophe losses) and to protect statutory surplus. We cede losses and premiums based upon the exposure of the policies subject to reinsurance. To manage exposure to large property   casualty losses, we purchase property catastrophe, casualty and property per risk excess of loss reinsurance protection. 
  For our Corporate Benefit Funding segment, we have periodically engaged in reinsurance activities on an opportunistic basis. There were no such transactions during the periods presented. 
  Latin America, Asia and EMEA 
  For certain life insurance products, we currently reinsure risks in excess of $5 million to external reinsurers on a yearly renewable term basis. We may also reinsure certain risks with external reinsurers depending upon the nature of the risk and local regulatory requirements. 
    15 

     Table of Contents  

   For selected large corporate clients, we reinsure group employee benefits or credit insurance business with various client-affiliated reinsurance companies, covering policies issued to the employees or customers of the clients. Additionally, we cede and assume risk with other insurance companies when either company requires a business partner with the appropriate local licensing to issue certain types of policies in certain countries. In these cases, the assuming company typically underwrites the risks, develops the products and assumes most or all of the risk. 
  We also have reinsurance agreements in-force that reinsure a portion of the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with variable annuity products. Under these agreements, we pay reinsurance fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and receive reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations. 
  Corporate   Other 
  We reinsure through 100% quota share reinsurance agreements certain run-off LTC and workers  compensation business written by MetLife USA. 
  Corporate   Other also has a reinsurance agreement in-force to reinsure the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with certain variable annuity products. Under this agreement, we receive reinsurance fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and provide reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations. 
  Catastrophe Coverage 
  We have exposure to catastrophes which could contribute to significant fluctuations in our results of operations. We use excess reinsurance agreements, under which the direct writing company reinsures risk in excess of a specific dollar value for each policy within a class of policies, to provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure to larger risks. Such excess reinsurance agreements include retention reinsurance agreements and quota share reinsurance agreements. Retention reinsurance agreements provide for a portion of a risk to remain with the direct writing company, and quota share reinsurance agreements provide for the direct writing company to transfer a fixed percentage of all risks of a class of policies. Our life insurance products, particularly group life, subject us to catastrophe risk which we do not reinsure other than through our ongoing mortality reinsurance program which transfers risk at the individual policy level. For the Americas, excluding Latin America, we use excess of retention and quota share reinsurance agreements to provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure to larger risks. Currently, for Latin America, Asia and EMEA, we purchase catastrophe coverage to insure risks within certain countries deemed by management to be exposed to the greatest catastrophic risks. 
  Reinsurance Recoverables 
  For information regarding ceded reinsurance recoverable balances, included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables in the consolidated balance sheets, see Note   6   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    16 

       Table of Contents  

   Regulation 
  Index to Regulation 
                   
    Page 
       Overview  
    18 
       U.S. Regulation  
    18 
       Insurance Regulation  
    18 
       Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI  
    23 
       Consumer Protection Laws  
    25 
       Regulation of Over-the-Counter Derivatives  
    26 
       Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation  
    26 
       Environmental Considerations  
    26 
       Unclaimed Property  
    27 
       ERISA Considerations  
    27 
       International Regulation  
    28 
       Solvency Regimes  
    29 
       Global Systemically Important Insurers  
    29 
       Japan  
    30 

17 

       Table of Contents  

   Overview 
  In the U.S., our life insurance companies are regulated primarily at the state level, with some products and services also subject to federal regulation. In addition, MetLife, Inc. and its U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws of various U.S. jurisdictions. As a non-bank systemically important financial institution ( non-bank SIFI ), MetLife, Inc. is also subject to regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve Board ) and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (collectively, with the Federal Reserve Board, the  Federal Reserve ). Furthermore, some of MetLife s operations, products and services are subject to consumer protection laws, securities, broker-dealer and investment adviser regulations, environmental and unclaimed property laws and regulations, and to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ). See    U.S. Regulation.  
  Our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. In addition, our investment and pension companies outside of the U.S. are subject to oversight by the relevant securities, pension and other authorities of the countries in which the companies operate. Our non-U.S. insurance businesses are also subject to current and developing solvency regimes which impose various capital and other requirements. As a global systemically important insurer ( G-SII ), MetLife, Inc. may also become subject to additional capital requirements. See    International Regulation.  
    U.S. Regulation 
    Insurance Regulation 
  State insurance regulation generally aims at supervising and regulating insurers individually rather than on a group-wide basis, with the goal of protecting policyholders and ensuring that each insurance company remains solvent. However, see    Holding Company Regulation   NAIC  for information regarding group-wide supervision. 
  Each of MetLife s insurance subsidiaries operating in the United States is licensed and regulated in each U.S. jurisdiction where it conducts insurance business. The extent of such regulation varies, but most jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing the financial aspects and business conduct of insurers. State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: 
             
    licensing companies and agents to transact business; 
                
    calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; 
                
    mandating certain insurance benefits; 
                
    regulating certain premium rates; 
                
    reviewing and approving certain policy forms; 
                
    regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements, and identifying and paying to the states benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners; 
                
    regulating advertising; 
                
    protecting privacy; 
                
    establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards; 
                
    specifying the conditions under which a ceding company can take credit for reinsurance in its statutory financial statements (i.e., reduce its reserves by the amount of reserves ceded to a reinsurer); 
                
    fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts; 
                
    adopting and enforcing suitability standards with respect to the sale of annuities and other insurance products; 
                
    approving changes in control of insurance companies; 
                
    restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and 
                
    regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. 
       18 

     Table of Contents  

   Each insurance subsidiary is required to file reports, generally including detailed annual financial statements, with insurance regulatory authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which it does business, and its operations and accounts are subject to periodic examination by such authorities. These subsidiaries must also file, and in many jurisdictions and in some lines of insurance obtain regulatory approval for, rules, rates and forms relating to the insurance written in the jurisdictions in which they operate. 
  State and federal insurance and securities regulatory authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general from time to time make inquiries regarding compliance by MetLife, Inc. and its insurance subsidiaries with insurance, securities and other laws and regulations regarding the conduct of our insurance and securities businesses. We cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective action when warranted. See Note   21   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Holding Company Regulation 
  Insurance holding company laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally require a controlled insurance company (insurers that are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies) to register with state regulatory authorities and to file with those authorities certain reports, including information concerning its capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations. 
  State insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent companies, as well as on transactions between an insurer and its affiliates. Dividends in excess of prescribed limits and transactions above a specified size between an insurer and its affiliates require the approval of the insurance regulator in the insurer s state of domicile. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   MetLife, Inc.   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Dividends from Subsidiaries.  
  NAIC 
  The National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ) adopted revisions to the NAIC Insurance Holding Company System Model Act ( Model Holding Company Act ) and the Insurance Holding Company System Model Regulation in December 2010. The revised models include a new requirement that the ultimate controlling person of a U.S. insurer file an annual enterprise risk report with the lead state of the insurer identifying risks likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole. To date, several states where MetLife has domestic insurers have enacted a version of the revised Model Holding Company Act, including the enterprise risk reporting requirement. In December 2014, the NAIC adopted amendments to the Model Holding Company Act authorizing NAIC commissioners to act as global group-wide supervisors for internationally active insurance groups, as well as other insurers who choose to opt in for the group-wide supervision. The amendments create a selection process for the group-wide supervisor, extend confidentiality protection to communications with the group-wide supervisor, and outline the duties of the group-wide supervisor. 
  Federal Initiatives 
  Although the insurance business in the United States is primarily regulated by the states, federal initiatives often have an impact on our business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal measures are proposed which may significantly affect the insurance business. These areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. See  Risk Factors   Regulatory and Legal Risks   Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.  
  The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ( Dodd-Frank ) effected the most far-reaching overhaul of financial regulation in the U.S. in decades. The full impact of Dodd-Frank on us will depend on the numerous rulemaking initiatives required or permitted by Dodd-Frank and the various studies mandated by Dodd-Frank, many of which remain to be completed. 
    19 

     Table of Contents  

   Dodd-Frank established the Federal Insurance Office ( FIO ) within the Department of the Treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the U.S., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office performs various functions with respect to insurance, including serving as a non-voting member of the Financial Stability Oversight Council ( FSOC ) and making recommendations to the FSOC regarding insurers to be designated for more stringent regulation. On December 12, 2013, the FIO issued a report, mandated by Dodd-Frank, setting forth recommendations with respect to modernization of insurance regulation in the United States. Many of these recommendations urged the states to take action to achieve greater uniformity in insurance regulation. However, the report also discussed potential federal solutions if states failed to modernize and improve regulation and some of the report s recommendations favored a greater federal role in certain aspects of insurance regulation to promote uniformity, such as FIO participation in supervisory colleges to monitor financial stability and identify issues or gaps in the regulation of large national and internationally active insurers. 
  Dodd-Frank also includes provisions that impact the investments and investment activities of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including the federal regulation of such activities. Until the various final regulations are promulgated pursuant to Dodd-Frank, and perhaps for some time thereafter, the full impact of Dodd-Frank on such activities will remain unclear. Such provisions and regulations include, but are not limited to, the potential application of enhanced prudential standards and other restrictions, including the regulation of proprietary trading and sponsoring or investing in hedge funds or private equity funds, to non-bank SIFIs, all of which affect MetLife, Inc. as the FSOC has designated it as a non-bank SIFI. See    Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI.  
  Guaranty Associations and Similar Arrangements 
  Most of the U.S. jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life and property   casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay certain contractual insurance benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. 
  In the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against MetLife have not been material. We have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate. See Note   21   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the insolvency assessments. 
  Insurance Regulatory Examinations and Other Activities 
  As part of their regulatory oversight process, state insurance departments conduct periodic detailed examinations of the books, records, accounts, and business practices of insurers domiciled in their states. State insurance departments also have the authority to conduct examinations of non-domiciliary insurers that are licensed in their states. Except as otherwise disclosed in Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, MetLife did not receive any material adverse findings resulting from state insurance department examinations of its insurance subsidiaries. 
  Regulatory authorities in a small number of states, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ) and, occasionally, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), have had investigations or inquiries relating to sales of individual life insurance policies or annuities or other products by MLIC, MetLife USA, New England Life Insurance Company, General American Life Insurance Company, and broker-dealer, MetLife Securities, Inc. These investigations often focus on the conduct of particular financial services representatives and the sale of unregistered or unsuitable products or the misuse of client assets. Over the past several years, these and a number of investigations by other regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments and certain other relief, including restitution payments. We may continue to resolve investigations in a similar manner. 
  In addition, claims payment practices by insurance companies have received increased scrutiny from regulators. See Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding retained asset accounts and unclaimed property inquiries and related litigation. 
    20 

     Table of Contents  

   The Company entered into a consent order with the New York State Department of Financial Services (the  Department of Financial Services  ) to resolve its inquiry into whether American Life Insurance Company ( American Life ) and Delaware American Life Insurance Company ( DelAm ) conducted business in New York without a license and whether representatives acting on behalf of these companies solicited, sold or negotiated insurance products in New York without a license. The Company entered into a deferred prosecution agreement with the District Attorney, New York County, regarding the same conduct. The Department of Financial Services consent order allows certain activities in New York related to American Life and other entities to continue through June 30, 2015. The Company is seeking legislation to allow for such activities to continue beyond that date. See Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the consent order and the deferred prosecution agreement. 
  State insurance regulators and the NAIC are also investigating the use of affiliated captive reinsurers and offshore entities to reinsure insurance risks. The NAIC contracted with Rector   Associates to study captives and recommend additional regulation. Rector   Associates issued recommendations in June 2014, modifying its report which was released for comment in late February 2014 (as modified, the  Rector Report ). The Rector Report was adopted by an NAIC task force on June 30, 2014 and by an NAIC executive committee on August 17, 2014. As a result, a number of NAIC working groups have adopted and may continue to adopt additional regulations on captives. It is premature to project the impact, if any, of any such regulations on MetLife. 
  Like many life insurance companies, we utilize captive reinsurers to satisfy reserve and capital requirements related to universal life and term life insurance policies. Insurance regulators in a few states, including New York and California, have imposed a moratorium on new reinsurance transactions between life insurers domiciled in those states and captive reinsurers. If additional state insurance regulators restrict the use of such captive reinsurers, or if we otherwise are unable to continue to use captive reinsurers in the future, our ability to write certain products and/or our risk-based capital ( RBC ) ratios and ability to deploy excess capital, could be adversely affected or we may need to increase prices on those products, which could adversely impact our competitive position and our results of operations. We will continue to evaluate product modifications, pricing structure and alternative means of managing risks, capital and statutory reserves. We expect the discontinued use of captive reinsurance on new reserve financing transactions would not have a material impact on our future consolidated financial results. As a result of the Mergers, we no longer cede any variable annuity guarantee risks to a captive reinsurer.  Instead, our reinsured U.S. variable annuity risks are now reinsured by MLIC, MetLife USA, or third parties. For more information on our use of captive reinsurers see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Capital   Affiliated Captive Reinsurance Transactions  and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  The International Association of Insurance Supervisors ( IAIS ) has encouraged U.S. insurance supervisors, such as the Department of Financial Services, to establish Supervisory Colleges for U.S.-based insurance groups with international operations, including MetLife, to facilitate cooperation and coordination among the insurance groups  supervisors and to enhance the member regulators  understanding of an insurance group s risk profile. MetLife, Inc. was the subject of Supervisory College meetings chaired by the Department of Financial Services and attended by MetLife s key U.S. and international insurance regulators in January 2013 and March 2014. The next meeting is scheduled for April 2015. Because MetLife, Inc. is now regulated as a non-bank SIFI, we expect that representatives from the Federal Reserve will attend this meeting. We have not received any report or recommendations from the Supervisory College meetings, and we do not expect any outcome of the meetings to have a material adverse effect on our business. 
  Policy and Contract Reserve Adequacy Analysis 
  Annually, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are required to conduct an analysis of the adequacy of all statutory reserves. In each case, a qualified actuary must submit an opinion which states that the statutory reserves make adequate provision, according to accepted actuarial standards of practice, for the anticipated cash flows required by the contractual obligations and related expenses of the U.S. insurance subsidiary. The adequacy of the statutory reserves is considered in light of the assets held by the insurer with respect to such reserves and related actuarial items including, but not limited to, the investment earnings on such assets, and the consideration anticipated to be received and retained under the related policies and contracts. The Company may increase reserves in order to submit an opinion without qualification. Since inception of this requirement, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries which are required by their states of domicile to provide these opinions have provided such opinions without qualifications. 
    21 

     Table of Contents  

   NAIC 
  The NAIC is an organization, the mission of which is to assist state insurance regulatory authorities in serving the public interest and achieving the insurance regulatory goals of its members, the state insurance regulatory officials. Through the NAIC, state insurance regulators establish standards and best practices, conduct peer reviews, and coordinate their regulatory oversight. The NAIC provides standardized insurance industry accounting and reporting guidance through its Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual (the  Manual ). However, statutory accounting principles continue to be established by individual state laws, regulations and permitted practices. Changes to the Manual or modifications by the various state insurance departments may impact the statutory capital and surplus of MetLife, Inc. s U.S. insurance subsidiaries. 
  The NAIC currently has in place its  Solvency Modernization Initiative,  which is designed to review the U.S. financial regulatory system and all aspects of financial regulation affecting insurance companies. Though broad in scope, the NAIC has stated that the Solvency Modernization Initiative will focus on: (1) capital requirements; (2) corporate governance and risk management; (3) group supervision; (4) statutory accounting and financial reporting; and (5) reinsurance. In furtherance of this initiative, the NAIC adopted the Corporate Governance Annual Filing Model Act and Regulation at its August 2014 meeting. The new model, which requires insurers to make an annual confidential filing regarding their corporate governance policies, is expected to become effective in 2016. In addition, in September 2012, the NAIC adopted the Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act ( ORSA ), which has been or is expected to be enacted by our insurance subsidiaries  domiciliary states in the near future. ORSA requires that insurers maintain a risk management framework and conduct an internal own risk and solvency assessment of the insurer s material risks in normal and stressed environments. The assessment must be documented in a confidential annual summary report, a copy of which must be made available to regulators as required or upon request. MetLife s first ORSA summary report, which will be submitted on behalf of the enterprise, must be prepared beginning in 2015. 
  In December 2012, the NAIC approved a new valuation manual containing a principles-based approach to life insurance company reserves. Principles-based reserving is designed to better address reserving for products, including the current generation of products for which the current formulaic basis for reserve determination does not work effectively. The principles-based approach will not become effective unless it is enacted into law by a minimum number of state legislatures. Insurance commissioners of certain states (e.g., New York) oppose or do not actively support the principles-based reserve approach. 
  We cannot predict the additional capital requirements or compliance costs, if any, that may result from the above initiatives. 
  See    Holding Company Regulation   NAIC  for information regarding the Model Holding Company Act and associated regulation. 
  Surplus and Capital; Risk-Based Capital 
  Insurers are required to maintain their capital and surplus at or above minimum levels. Regulators have discretionary authority, in connection with the continued licensing of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, to limit or prohibit an insurer s sales to policyholders if, in their judgment, the regulators determine that such insurer has not maintained the minimum surplus or capital or that the further transaction of business will be hazardous to policyholders. Most of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to RBC requirements and report their RBC ratios based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and statutory reserve items, as well as taking into account the risk characteristics of the insurer. The major categories of risk involved are asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk, market risk and business risk. The formula is used as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. State insurance laws provide insurance regulators the authority to require various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose RBC ratio does not meet or exceed certain RBC levels. As of the date of the most recent annual statutory financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the RBC of each of our subsidiaries subject to these requirements was in excess of each of those RBC levels. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Capital   Statutory Capital and Dividends.  
    22 

     Table of Contents  

   Effective December 31, 2013, the Department of Financial Services discontinued its most recent amendment to Regulation 147 which governed the valuation of life insurance policies. The amendment reflected changes made in 2013 by the NAIC to Actuarial Guideline 38 (which impacts the valuation of universal and variable life policies with secondary guarantees ( ULSG )). As a result of this action, New York licensed insurers are required to comply with a prior version of the regulation. MLIC is grading into the new level of required reserves over a three-year period (2013-2015). Under this level grade-in, statutory reserves on in-force ULSG policies increased by the following amounts, net of reinsurance, as of December 31, 2013: $55 million for MLIC, $28 million for Exeter (which was merged into MetLife USA as part of the Mergers) and $25 million for MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont ( MRV  and, as of December 31, 2014, $83 million for MLIC (which includes reserves for risks recaptured from Exeter), and $22 million for MRV. The change in the regulation is expected to have a minimal reserve impact on new sales of our one remaining ULSG product.  
  The Department of Financial Services issues an annual  Special Considerations  circular letter to New York licensed insurers requiring tests to be performed as part of insurers  year-end asset adequacy testing. The Department of Financial Services issued its 2014 Special Considerations letter on October 10, 2014, which was substantially similar to the 2013 letter. The letter mandates the use of certain assumptions in asset adequacy testing. In 2013, MLIC established a three-year grade-in schedule for the amount of LTC reserves required as a result of the new assumptions. In 2014, MLIC established an additional schedule, reflecting current economic conditions, liabilities and assets. The following table summarizes the two schedules of strengthening:  

_______________ 
  * The actual 2015 and 2016 amounts may differ from those originally estimated in 2013 and 2014 due to changes in economic conditions, regulation, or policyholder behavior. 
  We are not aware of any other potential NAIC actions that would have a material impact on the RBC of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries. 
  Regulation of Investments 
  Each of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries is subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of our investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in certain asset categories, such as below investment grade fixed income securities, real estate equity, other equity investments, and derivatives. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations would cause investments exceeding regulatory limitations to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring surplus and, in some instances, would require divestiture of such nonqualifying investments. We believe that the investments made by each of MetLife, Inc. s U.S. insurance subsidiaries complied, in all material respects, with such regulations at December 31,   2014  . See    Holding Company Regulation   Federal Initiatives  for information regarding the impact on our investments of Dodd-Frank. 
    Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI 
  On December 18, 2014, the FSOC designated MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. See    Enhanced Prudential Standards for Non-Bank SIFIs.  
  On January 13, 2015, MetLife, Inc. filed an action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia asking the court to review and rescind the FSOC s designation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI. Regulation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI could materially and adversely affect our business. For example, although the Federal Reserve Board has not yet determined the enhanced capital requirements that will apply to MetLife, those capital requirements may adversely affect our ability to compete with other insurers that are not subject to those requirements, and our ability to issue guarantees could be constrained. In addition, as a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. needs to obtain Federal Reserve approval before directly or indirectly acquiring, merging or consolidating with a financial company having more than $10 billion of assets or acquiring 5% or more of any voting class of securities of a bank or bank holding company and, depending on the extent of the combined company s liabilities, is subject to additional restrictions regarding its ability to merge. The Federal Reserve also has the right to require any of our insurance companies, or insurance company affiliates, to take prompt action to correct any financial weaknesses. 
    23 

     Table of Contents  

   As a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. is subject to a number of Dodd-Frank requirements including responsibility to pay, beginning in 2015, certain assessments and other charges (i) equal to the total expenses the Federal Reserve Board thinks is necessary for its supervision of bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more and non-bank SIFIs, and (ii) in connection with the Financial Research Fund within the U.S. Department of Treasury that funds the Office of Financial Research, an agency established by Dodd-Frank to improve the quality of financial data available to policymakers and facilitate more robust and sophisticated analysis of the financial system. MetLife, Inc. was subject to and paid such assessments in 2012 and 2013 when it was a bank holding company. 
  Enhanced Prudential Standards for Non-Bank SIFIs 
  In December 2011, in accordance with Dodd-Frank, the Federal Reserve Board proposed a rule ( Regulation YY ) that would have applied a set of prudential standards to non-bank SIFIs, including enhanced RBC requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, single counterparty exposure limits, governance requirements for risk management, stress test requirements, special debt-to-equity limits for certain companies, early remediation procedures, and recovery and resolution planning. The Federal Reserve Board s proposal contemplated that these standards could be tailored for different companies on an individual basis or by category, taking into consideration their capital structure, riskiness, complexity, financial activities, size, and any other risk-related factors that the Federal Reserve Board deems appropriate. In February 2014, the Federal Reserve Board adopted amendments to Regulation YY to implement certain of the enhanced prudential standards for bank holding companies and foreign banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. While Regulation YY, as originally proposed, would have applied to non-bank SIFIs, the final rule does not. However, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it plans to apply enhanced prudential standards to non-bank SIFIs by rule or order, enabling it to more appropriately tailor the standards to non-bank SIFIs and will provide affected non-bank SIFIs with notice and the opportunity to comment prior to determination of their enhanced prudential standards. Accordingly, the manner in which these proposed standards might apply to MetLife, Inc. remains unclear. 
  In particular, the Federal Reserve Board has not determined the requirements that will govern the amount and composition of capital that MetLife, Inc. is required to hold. If the Federal Reserve Board requires insurers that are non-bank SIFIs to comply with capital standards or regimes (such as the Basel capital rules that were developed for banks) that do not take into account the insurance business model and the differences between banks and insurers, our business and competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. Legislation was signed into law on December 18, 2014 relieving the Federal Reserve Board from certain provisions in Dodd-Frank that it believed might constrain its ability to tailor capital rules for insurers that are non-bank SIFIs. See  Risk Factors   Regulatory and Legal Risks   Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth   U.S. Regulation   Regulation of MetLife as a Non-Bank SIFI.  On September 30, 2014, the Federal Reserve Board announced that it will begin a quantitative impact study ( QIS ) to evaluate the potential effects of its revised regulatory capital framework on savings and loan holding companies and non-bank financial companies supervised by the Federal Reserve that are substantially engaged in insurance underwriting activity (insurance holding companies). The Federal Reserve Board is conducting the QIS in order to enable it to design a capital framework for insurance holding companies it supervises. 
  The stress testing requirements have been implemented and require non-bank SIFIs that are subject to capital requirements imposed by the Federal Reserve Board (as well as bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of assets) to undergo three stress tests each year: an annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve and two company-run stress tests (an annual test which coincides with the timing of the supervisory stress test, and a mid-cycle test). Companies will be required to take the results of the stress tests into consideration in their annual capital planning and resolution and recovery planning. As a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. s competitive position and its ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect its capital or need for capital could be adversely affected by any additional capital requirements that might be imposed as a result of the stress testing requirements, as well as enhanced prudential standards, other measures imposed as a result of the enactment of Dodd-Frank and other regulatory initiatives. 
  Non-bank SIFIs are required to submit a resolution plan setting forth how the company could be resolved under the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress. Resolution plans would have to be resubmitted annually and promptly following any event, occurrence, change in conditions or circumstances, or other change that results in, or could reasonably be foreseen to have, a material effect on the resolution plan. A failure to submit a  credible  resolution plan could result in the imposition of a variety of measures, including additional capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements, and forced divestiture of assets or operations. As a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. will be required to submit a resolution plan by July 1, 2016, unless the Federal Reserve Board and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) require a different due date. 
    24 

     Table of Contents  

   In addition, if it were determined that MetLife, Inc. posed a substantial threat to U.S. financial stability, the applicable federal regulators would have the right to require it to take one or more other mitigating actions to reduce that risk, including limiting its ability to merge with or acquire another company, terminating activities, restricting its ability to offer financial products or requiring it to sell assets or off-balance sheet items to unaffiliated entities. Enhanced standards would also permit, but not require, regulators to establish requirements with respect to contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures and short-term debt limits. These standards are described as being more stringent than those otherwise imposed on bank holding companies; however, the Federal Reserve is permitted to apply them on an institution-by-institution basis, depending on its determination of the institution s level of risk. 
  Orderly Liquidation Authority 
  Under the provisions of Dodd-Frank relating to the resolution or liquidation of certain types of financial institutions, if MetLife, Inc. or another financial institution were to become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations, it could be compelled to undergo liquidation with the FDIC as receiver. For this new regime to be applicable, a number of determinations would have to be made, including that a default by the affected company would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the U.S. While under this new regime an insurance company would be resolved in accordance with state insurance law, if the FDIC were to be appointed as the receiver for another type of company (including an insurance holding company such as MetLife, Inc.), the liquidation of that company would occur under the provisions of the new liquidation authority, and not under the Bankruptcy Code, which ordinarily governs liquidations. The FDIC s purpose under the liquidation regime is to mitigate the systemic risks the institution s failure poses, which is different from that of a bankruptcy trustee under the Bankruptcy Code. In such a liquidation, the holders of such company s debt could in certain respects be treated differently than under the Bankruptcy Code. As required by Dodd-Frank, the FDIC has established rules relating to the priority of creditors  claims and the potentially dissimilar treatment of similarly situated creditors. These provisions could apply to some financial institutions whose outstanding debt securities we hold in our investment portfolios. Dodd-Frank also provides for the assessment of bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more, non-bank SIFIs, and other financial companies with assets of $50 billion or more to cover the costs of liquidating any financial company subject to the new liquidation authority. 
  Volcker Rule 
  Under the Volcker Rule, Dodd-Frank authorizes through rulemaking additional capital requirements and quantitative limits on proprietary trading and sponsoring or investing in funds (hedge funds and private equity funds) that rely on certain exemptions from the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the  Investment Company Act ), by a non-bank SIFI. MetLife, Inc. and its affiliates are now subject to such requirements and limits. Regulations defining and governing such requirements and limits on non-bank SIFIs have not been proposed and were not addressed in the final regulations issued on December 10, 2013 implementing the Volcker Rule for insured depository institutions and their affiliates ( Volcker Rule Regulations ). Commencing from the date of designation, a non-bank SIFI will have a two-year period, subject to further extension by the Federal Reserve Board, to conform to any such requirements and limits. Subject to safety and soundness determinations as part of rulemaking that could require additional capital requirements and quantitative limits, Dodd-Frank provides that the exemptions under the Volcker Rule also are available to exempt any additional capital requirements and quantitative limits on non-bank SIFIs. The Volcker Rule Regulations provide an exemption, subject to certain requirements, for trading activities and fund sponsorship and investments by a regulated insurance company and its affiliates solely for the general account or separate account of such insurance company. Until final regulations applicable to non-bank SIFIs have been promulgated, it is unclear whether MetLife, Inc., as a non-bank SIFI, may have to alter any of its future activities to comply. 
    Consumer Protection Laws 
  Numerous federal and state laws affect MetLife, Inc. s earnings and activities, including federal and state consumer protection laws. As part of Dodd-Frank, Congress established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ( CFPB ) to supervise and regulate institutions that provide certain financial products and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services subject to the CFPB s jurisdiction generally exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the CFPB does have authority to regulate non-insurance consumer services we provide. 
  In August 2013, MetLife Bank merged with and into MLHL, its former subsidiary, with MLHL as the surviving, non-bank entity. The sole purpose of MLHL is to wind-down the limited remaining activities and fulfill remaining obligations and duties of MetLife Bank, some of which subject MLHL to certain federal consumer financial protection laws and certain state laws. 
    25 

       Table of Contents  

   Regulation of Over-the-Counter Derivatives 
  Dodd-Frank includes a framework of regulation of the over-the-counter ( OTC ) derivatives markets which requires clearing of certain types of transactions currently traded OTC and imposes additional costs, including new reporting and margin requirements, and will likely impose additional regulation on the Company, including new capital requirements. Our costs of risk mitigation are increasing under Dodd-Frank. For example, Dodd-Frank imposes requirements, including the requirement to pledge initial margin (i) for  OTC-cleared  transactions (OTC derivatives that are cleared and settled through central clearing counterparties) entered into after June 10, 2013, and (ii) for  OTC-bilateral  transactions (OTC derivatives that are bilateral contracts between two counterparties)     entered into after the phase-in period; these requirements would be applicable to us in 2019 if the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the  OCC ), the Federal Reserve Board, FDIC, Farm Credit Administration and Federal Housing Finance Agency (collectively, the  Prudential Regulators ), U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission ( CFTC ) and the SEC adopt the final margin requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives published by the Bank of International Settlements and International Organization of Securities Commissions in September 2013 and re-proposed by the Prudential Regulators and CFTC in September 2014. These increased margin requirements, combined with restrictions on securities that will qualify as eligible collateral, will require increased holdings of cash and highly liquid securities with lower yields causing a reduction in income. Centralized clearing of certain OTC derivatives exposes us to the risk of a default by a clearing member or clearinghouse with respect to our cleared derivative transactions. We use derivatives to mitigate a wide range of risks in connection with our businesses, including the impact of increased benefit exposures from our annuity products that offer guaranteed benefits. We have always been subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures might prove ineffective in reducing the risks to which insurance policies expose us or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, could produce economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. Any such losses could be increased by higher costs of writing derivatives (including customized derivatives) and the reduced availability of customized derivatives that might result from the implementation of Dodd-Frank and comparable international derivatives regulations. 
    Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation 
  Some of our subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance products are subject to extensive regulation under the federal securities laws administered by the SEC. These subsidiaries issue variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment companies under the Investment Company Act. Each registered separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered investment company under the Investment Company Act. In addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies issued by these registered separate accounts are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933. Other subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act ), and are members of, and subject to regulation by, FINRA. Further, some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and are also registered as investment advisers in various states, as applicable. Certain variable contract separate accounts sponsored by our subsidiaries are exempt from registration, but may be subject to other provisions of the federal securities laws. 
  Federal and state securities regulatory authorities and FINRA from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations regarding compliance by MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries with securities and other laws and regulations. We cooperate with such inquiries and examinations and take corrective action when warranted. 
  Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets and generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. We may also be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we provide investment advisory services, offer products similar to those described above, or conduct other activities. 
    Environmental Considerations 
  As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Inherent in such ownership and operation is also the risk that there may be potential environmental liabilities and costs in connection with any required remediation of such properties. In addition, we hold equity interests in companies that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities. We routinely have environmental assessments performed with respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real property to be acquired through foreclosure. We cannot provide assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not arise. However, based on information currently available to us, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of such properties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 
    26 

       Table of Contents  

   Unclaimed Property  
  We are subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions concerning identification, reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned funds, and are subject to audit and examination for compliance with these requirements. See Note 21 of the Notes of the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    ERISA Considerations 
  We provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). As such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and the requirement under ERISA and the Code that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to such plans. The applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code are subject to enforcement by the Department of Labor ( DOL ), the Internal Revenue Service and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. 
  The prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Code generally restrict the provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and Individual Retirement Accounts ( IRAs ) if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen. In October 2011, the DOL issued final regulations that provide limited relief from these investment advice restrictions. If additional relief is not provided, the ability of our affiliated broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and IRAs would likely be significantly restricted. Also, the fee and revenue arrangements of certain advisory programs may be required to be revenue neutral, resulting in potential lost revenues for these broker-dealers and their affiliates. 
  Other proposed investment advice regulatory initiatives under ERISA also may negatively impact the current business model of our broker-dealers. In particular, the DOL issued a proposed regulation in October 2010 that would, if adopted as proposed, significantly broaden the circumstances under which a person or entity providing investment advice with respect to ERISA plans or IRAs would be deemed a fiduciary under ERISA or the Code. If adopted, the proposed regulations may make it easier for the DOL in enforcement actions, and for plaintiffs  attorneys in ERISA litigation, to attempt to extend fiduciary status to advisors who would not be deemed fiduciaries under current regulations. In September 2011, the DOL announced it will re-propose these fiduciary definition regulations, and a new proposal is expected in 2015. 
  In addition, the DOL has issued a number of regulations that increase the level of disclosure that must be provided to plan sponsors and participants. The participant disclosure regulations and the regulations which require service providers to disclose fee and other information to plan sponsors took effect in 2012. These ERISA disclosure requirements will likely increase the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased costs. 
  In   J  o  hn Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company v. Harris Trust and Savings Bank   (1993), the U.S. Supreme Court held that certain assets in excess of amounts necessary to satisfy guaranteed obligations under a participating group annuity general account contract are  plan assets.  Therefore, these assets are subject to certain fiduciary obligations under ERISA, which requires fiduciaries to perform their duties solely in the interest of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries. On January 5, 2000, the Secretary of Labor issued final regulations indicating, in cases where an insurer has issued a policy backed by the insurer s general account to or for an employee benefit plan, the extent to which assets of the insurer constitute plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. The regulations apply only with respect to a policy issued by an insurer on or before December 31, 1998 ( Transition Policy ). No person will generally be liable under ERISA or the Code for conduct occurring prior to July 5, 2001, where the basis of a claim is that insurance company general account assets constitute plan assets. An insurer issuing a new policy that is backed by its general account and is issued to or for an employee benefit plan after December 31, 1998 will generally be subject to fiduciary obligations under ERISA, unless the policy is a guaranteed benefit policy. 
  The regulations indicate the requirements that must be met so that assets supporting a Transition Policy will not be considered plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. These requirements include detailed disclosures to be made to the employee benefits plan and the requirement that the insurer must permit the policyholder to terminate the policy on 90 days  notice and receive without penalty, at the policyholder s option, either (i) the unallocated accumulated fund balance (which may be subject to market value adjustment) or (ii) a book value payment of such amount in annual installments with interest. We have taken and continue to take steps designed to ensure compliance with these regulations. 
  We cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what legislation may be introduced or enacted or the impact of any such legislation on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
    27 

       Table of Contents  

   International Regulation  
  Regulation of our insurance operations outside of the U.S. includes minimum capital, solvency and operational requirements. The authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. Periodic examinations of insurance company books and records, financial reporting requirements, market conduct examinations and policy filing requirements are among the techniques used by regulators to supervise our non-U.S. insurance businesses. We also have investment and pension companies in certain foreign jurisdictions that provide mutual fund, pension and other financial products and services. Those entities are subject to securities, investment, pension and other laws and regulations. In some jurisdictions, some of our insurance products are considered  securities  under local law and may be subject to local securities regulations and oversight by local securities regulators. 
  Our international operations are exposed to increased political, legal, financial, operational and other risks. A significant portion of our revenues is generated through operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. Our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability (including any resulting economic or trade sanctions), dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities and regulators. Changes in the laws and regulations that affect our customers and independent sales intermediaries or their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. Such actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions. For example, legislation in Poland became effective on February 1, 2014, enacting significant changes to the country s pension system, including redemption of Polish government bonds held by pension funds. This legislation has had a negative impact on our pension business in Poland, but has not had and is not expected to have a material impact on our overall pension business. In addition, a tax reform bill was enacted in Chile on September 29, 2014 which includes, among other things, a gradual increase in the corporate tax rate from 20% to 27%, with a taxpayer election that limits the corporate tax rate to 25% but eliminates the taxable profits fund, an exemption on taxes on corporate income that is reinvested. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Results of Operations   Segment Results and Corporate   Other   EMEA  for a discussion of a write-down of deferred policy acquisition costs ( DAC ) and value of business acquired ( VOBA ) associated with our EMEA business and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Results of Operations   Segment Results and Corporate   Other   Latin America  for information regarding the impact on our Latin America business of the new tax legislation in Chile. Also pending in Chile are changes to its pension system: a bill to create a state-owned pension company was introduced and a Presidential Advisory Committee was created to draft a reform proposal of the pension system. Both proposals are not finalized and may still change further if a bill results from their recommendations. It is premature to predict the impact of such reforms on our pension business in Chile. 
  Part of our international insurance operations may be subject to assessments, generally based on their proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations to policyholders and claimants resulting from the insolvency of insurance companies. We cannot predict the timing and scope of any assessments that may be made in the future, which may materially affect the results of operations of our international insurance operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. Annually, many of our international insurance operations are required to conduct an analysis of the sufficiency of all statutory reserves. In most of those cases, a locally qualified actuary must submit an analysis of the likelihood that the reserves make good and sufficient provision for the associated contractual obligations and related expenses of the insurer. Local regulatory and actuarial standards for this vary widely; the required implied certainty of the signing actuary s opinion varies equally widely. 
  We expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the U.S., as well as regulatory oversight, generally, to continue to increase. The regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See  Risk Factors   Risks Related to Our Business   Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability.  
    28 

       Table of Contents  

   Solvency Regimes 
  Solvency II 
  Our insurance business throughout the European Economic Area will be subject to the Solvency II package, consisting of two inter-linked directives: Solvency II and Omnibus II, which have been adopted separately. Solvency II was adopted by European authorities in 2009. It codifies and harmonizes regulation for insurance undertakings established in the European Union ( EU ). It provides a framework for new risk management practices, solvency capital standards and disclosure requirements. Omnibus II was adopted in April 2014. It contains provisions that adapt Solvency II to the new supervisory architecture establishing the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority ( EIOPA ) and includes a package of measures to facilitate the provision of insurance products with long-term guarantees. Both directives will become effective on January 1, 2016. 
  Leading up to Solvency II s effective date, EIOPA has published Interim Guidelines aimed at increasing preparedness of both supervisors and insurers. The Interim Guidelines have been applicable since January 1, 2014 and include certain reporting and organizational requirements with which we are complying in accordance with the requirements of our local regulators. Between 2014 and the effective date of both directives in 2016, the European authorities will establish supporting rules and guidance that implement the legislation. 
  Other Solvency Regimes 
  In addition, our insurance business in Mexico will be impacted by Mexico s insurance law reform, adopted in February 2013. The reform envisions a Solvency II-type regulatory framework, instituting changes to reserve and capital requirements and corporate governance and fostering greater transparency. While originally scheduled to be effective in April 2015, in October 2014, the grace period for implementation of certain legal requirements related to RBC and assets and liabilities valuation was extended to January 2016. During this extended consultation period, two new quantitative impact studies will be performed. Other requirements, such as governance, risk and control requirements, will retain the original April 2015 deadline.  
  In Chile, the law implementing Solvency II-like regulation is currently in the studies stage. However, the Chilean insurance regulator has already issued two resolutions, one for governance, and the other for risk management and control framework requirements. MetLife Chile has already implemented governance changes and risk policies to comply with these resolutions. The impact study considering the second draft of the regulation for RBC requirements was completed in May 2014. The law is expected to be published and approved in 2015, with the RBC regulation in force in 2016.  
  In China, the business of our joint venture (as well as the industry) will be impacted by a new risk-based solvency regime which will be published by the China Insurance Regulatory Commission in 2015 and is expected to be implemented at the end of 2015 or in early 2016, although it is likely there will be transitional arrangements applying from 2015. Like Solvency II, the new regime focuses on risk management and has three pillars (strengthened quantitative capital requirements, enhanced qualitative supervision and establishing a governance and market discipline process).  
    Global Systemically Important Insurers 
  The IAIS, an association of insurance supervisors and regulators and a member of the Financial Stability Board ( FSB ), an international entity established to coordinate, develop and promote regulatory, supervisory and other financial sector policies in the interest of financial stability, is participating in the FSB s initiative to identify global systemically important financial institutions and has devised and published a methodology to assess the systemic relevance of global insurers and a framework of policy measures to be applied to G-SIIs. In July 2013 and November 2014  ,   the FSB published its lists of G-SIIs, based on the IAIS  assessment methodology, each of which included MetLife, Inc. The FSB will continue to update the list annually. 
    29 

     Table of Contents  

   For G-SIIs which engage in activities deemed to be systemically risky, the framework of policy measures calls for imposition of additional capital (higher loss absorbency ( HLA )) requirements on those activities. Given the absence of a common global base on which to calculate an HLA for insurers, the FSB directed the IAIS to develop basic capital requirements ( BCR ). G-SIIs will initially report BCR results to their group-wide supervisors on a confidential basis to allow for refinement of the BCR until fully adopted and implemented in 2019. Work on HLA development is in early stages and how the HLA requirements will be computed remains unclear. It is expected that the IAIS will publish an exposure draft of HLA requirements in June 2015; they are required to be finalized by the end of 2015. HLA requirements are to be applied in 2019 to companies designated as G-SIIs in 2017. In addition, on December 17, 2014, the IAIS released a first exposure draft of a risk-based global insurance capital standard ( ICS ) which will apply to all internationally active insurance groups, including G-SIIs. The IAIS expects to finalize the ICS by 2016, with implementation to begin in 2019 after two years of testing and refinement. The FSB and IAIS propose that national authorities ensure that any insurers identified as G-SIIs be subject to additional requirements consistent with the framework of policy measures, which include preparation of a systemic risk management plan, preparation of a recovery and resolution plan, enhanced liquidity planning and management, more intensive supervision, closer coordination among regulators through global supervisory colleges led by a regulator with group-wide supervisory authority, and a policy bias in favor of separation of non-traditional insurance and non-insurance activities from traditional insurance activities. The IAIS policy measures would need to be implemented by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction, and the impact on MetLife, Inc. and other designated G-SIIs is uncertain. 
    Japan 
  Our operations in Japan are subject to regulation and examination by Japan s Financial Services Agency ( FSA ). Our operations in Japan are required to file with the FSA annual reports for each fiscal year (ending March 31) which include financial statements. These annual reports are not prepared on a U.S. GAAP basis. Similar to the U.S., Japanese law provides that insurers in Japan must maintain specified solvency standards for the protection of policyholders and to support the financial strength of licensed insurers. As of December 31,   2014  , the date of our most recent regulatory filing in Japan, the solvency margin ratio of our Japan operations was in excess of four times the 200% solvency margin ratio that would require corrective action. Most Japanese life insurers maintain a solvency margin ratio well in excess of the legally mandated minimum. 
  A portion of the annual earnings of our Japan operations may be repatriated each year, and may further be distributed to MetLife, Inc. as a dividend. We may determine not to repatriate profits from the Japan operations or to repatriate a reduced amount in order to maintain or improve the solvency margin of the Japan operations or for other reasons. In addition, the FSA may limit or not permit profit repatriations or other transfers of funds to the U.S. if such transfers would be detrimental to the solvency or financial strength of our Japan operations or for other reasons. 
  Our operations in Japan are subject to assessments to cover obligations to policyholders in the event of insolvency of other insurance companies. Under the Japanese Insurance Business Law, all licensed life insurers in Japan are assessed on an annual basis by the Life Insurance Policyholders Protection Corporation of Japan. These assessments are aggregated across all licensed life insurers in Japan and, in the event of a life insurance company insolvency, are used to satisfy certain obligations to policyholders and claimants of such insolvent company. We cannot predict the amount of future assessments, which may materially affect our results of operations in Japan in particular quarterly or annual periods. 
    Company Ratings 
  Insurer financial strength ratings represent the opinions of rating agencies, including A.M. Best Company ( A.M. Best ), Fitch Ratings ( Fitch ), Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s ) and Standard   Poor s Ratings Services ( S P ), regarding the ability of an insurance company to meet its financial obligations to policyholders and contractholders. 
  Rating Stability Indicators  
  Rating agencies use an  outlook statement  of  positive,   stable,    negative   or  developing  to indicate a medium- or long-term trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a rating change. A rating may have a  stable  outlook to indicate that the rating is not expected to change; however, a  stable  rating does not preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time, without notice. Certain rating agencies assign rating modifiers such as  CreditWatch  or  Under Review  to indicate their opinion regarding the potential direction of a rating. These ratings modifiers are generally assigned in connection with certain events such as potential mergers and acquisitions, or material changes in a company s results, in order for the rating agency to perform its analysis to fully determine the rating implications of the event. 
    30 

     Table of Contents  

   Insurer Financial Strength Ratings 
  The following insurer financial strength ratings represent each rating agency s opinion of MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries  ability to pay obligations under insurance policies and contracts in accordance with their terms and are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors in MetLife, Inc. s securities. Insurer financial strength ratings are not statements of fact nor are they recommendations to purchase, hold or sell any security, contract or policy. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Additional information about financial strength ratings can be found on the respective websites of the rating agencies. 
  Our insurer financial strength ratings at the date of this filing are as follows: 

______________ 
  NR = Not rated 
           *  
    Formerly known as MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut. Effective November 14, 2014, MetLife Investors Insurance Company and MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company merged into MetLife Insurance Company USA.  
              **  
    Negative outlook by S P effective May 2, 2012, reflects S P s sovereign ratings on Japan.   
     See  Risk Factors   Risks Related to Our Business   A Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or Credit Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  See also  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Capital   Rating Agencies  for an in depth description of the impact of a ratings downgrade. 
    31 

       Table of Contents  

   Competition 
  We believe that competition faced by our segments is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. We compete globally with other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employer and other group customers, as well as agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability ratings. In the U.S. and Japan, we compete with a large number of domestic and foreign-owned life insurance companies, many of which offer products in categories on which we focus. Elsewhere, we compete with the foreign insurance operations of large U.S. insurers and with global insurance groups and local companies in particular areas in which they are active. Many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually and, accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us. 
  We believe that the continued volatility of the financial markets, its impact on the capital position of many competitors, and subsequent actions by regulators and rating agencies have altered the competitive environment. In particular, we believe that these factors have highlighted financial strength as the most significant differentiator from the perspective of some customers and certain distributors. We believe the Company is well positioned to compete in this environment. In particular, the Company distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as banks and broker-dealers. These distribution partners are currently placing greater emphasis on the financial strength of the company whose products they sell. In addition, the financial market turbulence has highlighted the extent of the risk associated with certain variable annuity products and has led us, along with many companies in our industry, to re-examine the pricing and features of the products offered. The effects of current market conditions may also lead to consolidation in the life insurance industry. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of these conditions, we believe that the strongest companies will enjoy a competitive advantage as a result of the current circumstances.  
  Competition for employees in our industry is intense, and we need to be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people with knowledge of our business and industry experience to support our business. We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Insurance companies compete for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurance companies for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product features. See    Sales Distribution.  In selected global markets, we continue to undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency forces, while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our sales representatives. These initiatives may not succeed in attracting and retaining productive agents. Sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining productive agents. 
  Numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation. Legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry. See    Regulation.  
    Employees 
  At December 31,   2014  , we had approximately 68,000 employees. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory. 
    32 

       Table of Contents  

   Executive Officers 
  Set forth below is information regarding the executive officers of MetLife, Inc.: 
                           Name 
      
    Age 
      
    Position with MetLife and Business Experience 
      Steven A. Kandarian 
      
    62 

Chairman of the Board of MetLife, Inc. (January 2012-present) (Director of MetLife, Inc. since 2011) 

President and Chief Executive Officer (May 2011-present) of MetLife, Inc. 

Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. (April 2005-April 2011) 
      Ricardo A. Anzaldua 
      
    61 

Executive Vice President and General Counsel of MetLife, Inc. (December 2012-present) 

The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc., an insurance and financial services company (February 2007-December 2012) 

Associate general counsel and senior vice president, director of commercial and consumer markets law (October 2010-December 2012) 

Associate general counsel and senior vice president, director of corporate law (February 2007-October 2010); corporate secretary (February 2008-October 2010) 
      Steven J. Goulart 
      
    56 

Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. (May 2011-present) 

Head of the Portfolio Management Unit as Senior Managing Director of MLIC (January 2011-April 2011) 

Senior Vice President and Treasurer, MetLife, Inc. (July 2009-April 2011) 
      John C.R. Hele 
      
    56 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. (September 2012-present) 

Executive vice president, chief financial officer and treasurer, Arch Capital Group Ltd., an insurance and reinsurance company (April 2009-August 2012) 
      Frans Hijkoop 
      
    54 

Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of MetLife, Inc. (August 2011-present) 

Chief personnel officer and senior vice president of human resources, American Foods division of PepsiCo Inc., a food and beverage company (January 2008-August 2011) 
      Michel Khalaf 
      
    51 

President, EMEA of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present) 

Executive Vice President of MLIC (January 2011-November 2011) 

Regional President, Middle East, Africa and South Asia, Alico (November 2008-November 2011) (Mr. Khalaf joined MetLife as a result of the acquisition of ALICO) 
      Esther Lee 
      
    51 

Executive Vice President and Global Chief Marketing Officer of MetLife, Inc. (January 2015-present) 

Senior Vice President, Brand Marketing, Advertising and Sponsorships of AT T, Inc., a communications compan  y (August 2011-D  ecember 2014) 

Senior Vice President, Brand Marketing and Advertising of AT T, Inc., a communications company (June 2009-July 2011) 
      Martin J. Lippert 
      
    55 

Executive Vice President and Head of Global Technology and Operations of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present) 

Executive Vice President and Head of Global Technology of MetLife, Inc. (September 2011-November 2011) 
      Maria R. Morris 
      
    52 

Executive Vice President and Head of Global Employee Benefits of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present) 

Executive Vice President, Global Operations, Integration of MetLife, Inc. (September 2011-November 2011) 

Executive Vice President, Technology and Operations of MetLife, Inc. (January 2008-September 2011) 
      Christopher G. Townsend 
      
    46 

President, Asia of MetLife, Inc. (August 2012-present) 

Chief executive officer of the Asia Pacific region, Chartis, a unit of AIG, an insurance and financial services company (January 2010-April 2012) 

Chief executive officer, Chartis Australasia (February 2007-January 2010) 
       William J. Wheeler 
      
    53 

President, Americas of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011-present) 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. (December 2003-November 2011) 

33 

       Table of Contents  

   Trademarks 
  We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, including, among others, the trademark  MetLife.  We also have the exclusive global license to use the Peanuts        characters in the area of financial services and healthcare benefit services under an advertising and premium agreement with Peanuts Worldwide, LLC up to December 31, 2019. We also have a non-exclusive license to use certain Citigroup-owned trademarks in connection with the marketing, distribution or sale of life insurance and annuity products under a licensing agreement with Citigroup until June 30, 2015. As a result of the acquisition of American Life and DelAm (collectively,  ALICO ), we acquired trademarks of American Life, including the  ALICO  trademark. In addition, as a result of our acquisition of ProVida, we acquired  PROVIDA  and other trademarks. We believe that our rights in our trademarks and under our Peanuts        characters license and our Citigroup license are well protected. 
    Available Information 
  MetLife files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at its Headquarters Office, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 or 1-800-SEC-0330 (Office of Investor Education and Advocacy). In addition, the SEC maintains an internet website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including MetLife, Inc. 
  MetLife makes available, free of charge, on its website (www.metlife.com) through the Investor Relations web page, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to all those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing (furnishing) such reports to the SEC. MetLife encourages investors to visit the Investor Relations web page from time to time, where it announces additional financial and other information about it to its investors, including in press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. The information found on MetLife s website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document MetLife files with the SEC, and any references to MetLife s website are intended to be inactive textual references only. 
    Item 1A. Risk Factors 
  Economic Environment and Capital Markets-Related Risks 
  If Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally Persist, They May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations 
  Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in financial asset classes or various markets, including global capital markets, can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. Global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation, all affect our financial condition, as well as the volume, profitability and results of our business operations, either directly or by virtue of their impact on the business and economic environment generally and on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior specifically. Disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. Upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our financial condition (including our liquidity and capital levels) as a result of mismatched impacts on the value of our assets and our liabilities. While our diversified business mix and geographically diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may reduce the benefits of diversification.  
  At times throughout the past few years, volatile conditions have characterized financial markets. Significant market volatility, and government actions taken in response, may exacerbate some of the risks we face. Concerns about global economic conditions, capital markets and the solvency of certain EU member states, their banking systems and the financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries or significant exposure to their banking systems, have caused elevated levels of market volatility. This market volatility has affected the performance of various asset classes at various times, and it could continue until there is an ultimate resolution of these sovereign debt and banking system-related concerns. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Current Environment.  The financial markets have also been affected periodically by concerns over U.S. fiscal policy. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Industry Trends   Financial and Economic Environment.  Any of these concerns could have significant adverse effects on the economic and financial markets generally.  
    34 

     Table of Contents  

   To the extent these uncertain financial market conditions persist, our revenues and net investment income are likely to remain under pressure. Similarly, sustained periods of low interest rates could cause our profit margins to erode. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Industry Trends   Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment.  Also, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital and/or operating losses due to, among other reasons, losses incurred in our general account and as a result of the impact on us of guarantees, capital maintenance obligations and/or collateral requirements associated with our affiliated reinsurers and other similar arrangements. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility, which may also increase the cost and limit the availability of the hedging instruments and other protective measures we take to mitigate such risk. 
  We are a significant writer of variable insurance products and certain other products issued through separate accounts. The account values of these products decrease as a result of declining equity markets. Lower interest rates generally increase account values in the near term, but may result in lower returns in fixed income options in the future. Decreases in account values reduce fees generated by these products, cause the amortization of DAC to accelerate, could increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support such products issued with any associated guarantees and could require us to provide additional funding to our captive reinsurers. 
  In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. Group insurance, in particular, is affected by higher unemployment rates. In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Furthermore, our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Such adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  
  The financial crisis has precipitated, and may continue to raise the possibility of, legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions. See    Regulatory and Legal Risks   Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth,  and    Risks Related to Our Business   Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability  below. 
  Adverse Capital and Credit Market Conditions May Significantly Affect Our Ability to Meet Liquidity Needs, Our Access to Capital and Our Cost of Capital 
  The capital and credit markets may be subject to periods of extreme volatility and disruption, which could cause our liquidity and credit capacity to be limited. 
  We need liquidity to pay claims and other operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, provide our subsidiaries with cash or collateral, maintain our securities lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations, and our business and financial results may suffer. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources.  
  In the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact on our capital and liquidity, or our stress-testing indicates that such conditions could have such an impact beyond expectations and our current resources do not satisfy our needs or regulatory requirements, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as the then current market conditions, regulatory considerations, availability of credit to us and the financial services industry generally, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the perception of our customers and lenders regarding our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large operating or investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. 
  Our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice under securities lending agreements. See    Investments-Related Risks   Should the Need Arise, We May Have Difficulty Selling Certain Holdings in Our Investment Portfolio or in Our Securities Lending Program in a Timely Manner and Realizing Full Value Given Their Illiquid Nature  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Securities Lending.  
    35 

     Table of Contents  

   Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital needed to operate our business, most significantly in our insurance operations. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory capital requirements, and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of securities than we would have otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. 
  We Are Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risks Which May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Liquidity, and May Cause Our Net Investment Income to Vary from Period to Period  
  We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risks, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, global economic performance in general, the performance of specific obligors, including governments, included in our investment portfolio and other factors outside our control.  
  Interest Rate Risk  
  Some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our investment margin or  spread,  or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we earn on general account investments intended to support obligations under such contracts. Our spread is a key component of our net income.  
  In a low interest rate environment, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, which will reduce our investment margin. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities and commercial or agricultural mortgage loans in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, thereby exacerbating this risk. Although lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in spreads on some products, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. As a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative. See    Risks Related to Our Business   Guarantees Within Certain of Our Products May Decrease Our Earnings, Increase the Volatility of Our Results, Result in Higher Risk Management Costs and Expose Us to Increased Counterparty Risk.  
  Our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of DAC and VOBA. Significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. In addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers. This could result in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in-force from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. A decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. During periods of sustained lower interest rates, our reserves for policy liabilities may not be sufficient to meet future policy obligations and may need to be strengthened. Accordingly, declining and sustained lower interest rates may materially affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our profitability. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Industry Trends   Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment.  
  As a global insurance company, we are also affected by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board and of central banks around the world. The Federal Reserve Board has taken a number of actions in recent years to spur economic activity, by keeping interest rates low and through its asset purchase programs, and may take further action to influence rates in the future. Such actions may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, and may adversely impact the level of product sales. Central banks in other parts of the world have also pursued accommodative monetary policies. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Current Environment.  For a discussion of the impact of the low interest rate environment on us, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Industry Trends   Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment.   
    36 

     Table of Contents  

   Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. In periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the investments in our general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. We, therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. In addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. This process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. Unanticipated withdrawals, terminations and substantial policy amendments may cause us to accelerate the amortization of DAC and VOBA, which reduces net income and may also cause us to accelerate the amortization of negative VOBA, which increases net income. An increase in market interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. Finally, an increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds. However, this increase in interest rates would typically cause any guaranteed living benefits to decline in value. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Industry Trends   Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment.  
  We manage interest rate risk as part of our asset and liability management strategies, which include maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. We also use derivatives to mitigate interest rate risk. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed income investments relative to our liabilities. See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.   
  Credit Spreads  
  Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price volatility and cash flow variability associated with changes in such spreads. Market volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. In such case, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. If there is a resumption of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in credit spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. See also  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Investment Risks.   
  Equity Risk  
  Our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our businesses where fee income is earned based upon the estimated fair value of the assets under management. Downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and investment returns from our savings and investment products and services. The retail variable annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the equity markets could decrease revenues and earnings with respect to those products. Furthermore, certain of our variable annuity products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline. We use derivatives and reinsurance to mitigate the impact of such increased potential benefit exposures. We are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. Sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans.  
  In addition, we invest a portion of our investments in leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds. The amount and timing of net investment income from such funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments. The timing of distributions from such funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds  schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount of net investment income from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these alternative investment classes. In addition, the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  
    37 

     Table of Contents  

   Real Estate Risk  
  Our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial, agricultural and residential real estate. Our exposure to these risks stems from various factors, including the supply and demand of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets volatility and interest rate fluctuations. Although we manage credit risk and market valuation risk for our commercial, agricultural and residential real estate assets through geographic, property type and product type diversification, and asset allocation, general economic conditions and the recovery rate in the commercial, agricultural and residential real estate sectors will continue to influence the performance of these investments. These factors, which are beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows.  
  Obligor-Related Risks  
  Our investment portfolio contains investments in government bonds issued by certain EU member states, including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain, and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries. Recently, the EU member states have experienced above average public debt and unemployment and lower than targeted inflation. A number of member states are significantly impacted by the economies of their more influential neighbors, such as Germany, and financial troubles of one nation can lead to troubles in others. In particular, a number of large European banks hold significant amounts of sovereign and/or financial institution debt of other European nations and could experience difficulties as a result of defaults or declines in the value of such debt. Concerns regarding these difficulties could disrupt the functioning of the financial markets.  
  Our investment portfolio also contains investments, primarily in revenue bonds issued under the auspices of U.S. states and municipalities, and a limited amount of general obligation bonds of U.S. states and municipalities (collectively,  State and political subdivision securities ). Recently, certain U.S. states and municipalities have faced budget deficits and financial difficulties. The financial difficulties of such U.S. states and municipalities could have an adverse impact on our State and political subdivision securities.  
  Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risks  
  Our primary foreign currency exchange rate risks are described under    Risks Related to Our Business   Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly affect our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. This risk will increase if a country withdraws from the Euro zone. In such case, the national currency to which such a country may revert will likely be devalued and contracts using the Euro will need to be renegotiated. Any such devaluation and its related consequences for our contracts and investments in any such country could be significant and materially adversely affect our operations and earnings in that country. Any operations we may have in any such withdrawing country could also be materially adversely affected by legal or governmental actions related to conversion from the Euro to a national currency. See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.   
  Summary  
  Significant volatility in the markets could cause changes in interest rates, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, impairments, increased valuation allowances and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions. 
  Regulatory and Legal Risks 
  Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth  
  Our insurance operations and brokerage businesses are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. See  Business   Regulation,  as supplemented by discussions of regulatory developments in our subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q under the caption  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Industry Trends   Regulatory Developments.  
    38 

     Table of Contents  

   U.S Regulation 
  Insurance Regulation 
  State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, that are made for the benefit of the consumer sometimes lead to additional expense for the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  
  State insurance regulators and the NAIC are investigating the use of affiliated captive reinsurers and offshore entities to reinsure insurance risk. Like many life insurance companies, we utilize captive reinsurers to satisfy reserve and capital requirements related to universal life and term life insurance policies. Insurance regulators in a few states, including New York and California, have imposed a moratorium on new reinsurance transactions between life insurers domiciled in those states and captive reinsurers. If additional state insurance regulators restrict the use of such captive reinsurers, or if we otherwise are unable to continue to use captive reinsurers in the future, our ability to write certain products and/or our RBC ratios and ability to deploy excess capital, could be adversely affected or we may need to increase prices on those products, which could adversely impact our competitive position and our results of operations. See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information on our use of captive reinsurers, see also  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Capital   Affiliated Captive Reinsurance Transactions.   
   U.S. Federal Regulation Affecting Insurance 
  Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. However, Dodd-Frank established the FIO within the Department of the Treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the U.S., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. On December 12, 2013, the FIO issued a report, mandated by Dodd-Frank, setting forth recommendations with respect to modernization of insurance regulation in the United States. The report raised the possibility of a greater role for the federal government if states do not achieve greater uniformity in their laws and regulations. We cannot predict whether any such legislation or regulatory changes will be adopted, or what impact they will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation   Holding Company Regulation   Federal Initiatives.  
  Federal legislation and administrative policies can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies, including policies regarding financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. Other aspects of our insurance operations could also be affected by Dodd-Frank.  
  Regulation of MetLife as a Non-Bank SIFI  
  On December 18, 2014, the FSOC designated MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI. As a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. Many of the regulatory requirements that will apply to us have not been specified. The Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it plans to apply enhanced prudential standards to non-bank SIFIs by rule or order. Accordingly, the manner in which these proposed standards might apply to MetLife, Inc. remains unclear. Regulation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI could materially and adversely affect our business. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI.  
  In particular, the Federal Reserve Board has not determined the requirements that will govern the amount and composition of capital that MetLife, Inc. is required to hold. 
  If the Federal Reserve Board requires insurers that are non-bank SIFIs to comply with capital standards or regimes (such as the Basel capital rules that were developed for banks) that do not take into account the insurance business model and the differences between banks and insurers, our business and competitive position could be materially and adversely affected.     The capital requirements that apply to us could also constrain our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect our capital. Enhanced capital requirements could adversely affect our ability to compete with other insurers that are not subject to those requirements, and our ability to issue guarantees could be constrained. We could have to raise the price of the products we offer, reduce the amount of risk we take on, or stop offering certain products altogether. Legislation was signed into law on December 18, 2014 relieving the Federal Reserve Board from certain provisions in Dodd-Frank that it believed might constrain its ability to tailor capital rules for insurers that are non-bank SIFIs. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI.   
    39 

     Table of Contents  

   Additional prudential standards that the Federal Reserve Board may promulgate for non-bank SIFIs will likely include leverage limits, liquidity requirements, single counterparty exposure limits, governance requirements for risk management, stress test requirements, special debt-to-equity limits for certain companies, early remediation procedures, and recovery and resolution planning. The Federal Reserve Board also has the right to require any of MetLife, Inc. s insurance companies, or insurance company affiliates, to take prompt action to correct any financial weaknesses. In addition, under the so-called Volcker Rule, the Federal Reserve Board could impose additional capital requirements and quantitative limits on certain trading and investment activities of a non-bank SIFI. As a result of our designation as a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. will be subject to such requirements and limits as the Federal Reserve Board may impose. 
  Non-bank SIFIs and certain other large financial companies can be assessed under Dodd-Frank for any uncovered costs arising in connection with the resolution of a systemically important financial company. In addition, as a non-bank SIFI, MetLife, Inc. must pay, beginning in 2015, certain assessments and other charges. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI.  
  Other Federal Regulatory Agencies 
  As part of Dodd-Frank, Congress established the CFPB, which supervises and regulates institutions providing certain financial products and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services to which this legislation applies exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the CFPB has authority to regulate non-insurance consumer services provided by MetLife. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Consumer Protection Laws.  MetLife, Inc. s subsidiary, MLHL, which merged with MetLife, Inc. s former subsidiary, MetLife Bank, is regulated by the CFPB. 
  Mortgage and Foreclosure-Related Exposures 
  State and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated various inquiries and investigations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing industry, mortgage origination and mortgage servicing practices. Although we have reached settlements with some regulators relating to our mortgage servicing activities, pending or additional inquiries, investigations or examinations may result in further monetary payments or other measures against us. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Industry Trends   Mortgage and Foreclosure-Related Exposures.  
  ERISA Considerations 
  We provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA or the Code. As such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code, including the requirement that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and the requirement under ERISA and the Code that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to those plans. 
  The prohibited transaction rules generally restrict the provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and IRAs if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen. Regulations adopted in October 2011 in this area provide some relief from these investment advice restrictions. If additional relief is not provided, the ability of our affiliated broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and IRAs would likely be significantly restricted. Other proposed regulations in this area may negatively impact the current business model of our broker-dealers, including proposed changes to broaden the definition of  fiduciary,  thereby increasing the regulation of persons providing investment advice to ERISA plans and IRAs. These proposed regulations are expected in 2015. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   ERISA Considerations.  
    40 

     Table of Contents  

   International Regulation  
  Our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. A significant portion of our revenues is generated through operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. Our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability (including any resulting economic or trade sanctions), dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold to U.S. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities or regulators. This may also impact many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries. Changes in the laws and regulations that affect these customers and independent sales intermediaries or their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes and actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions. We expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the U.S., as well as regulatory oversight, generally, to continue to increase. The authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. The regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See  Business   Regulation   International Regulation  and    Risks Related to Our Business   Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability.  
  Solvency Regimes 
  We are subject to the evolving Solvency II insurance regulatory directive established by the European Parliament in 2009 for our insurance business throughout the European Economic Area, and may be subject to similar solvency regulations in other regions, such as Mexico, Chile and China. See  Business   Regulation   International Regulation   Solvency Regimes.  As requirements are finalized by the regulators, capital requirements might be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. In addition, our legal entity structure throughout Europe may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting by country. 
  Global Systemically Important Insurers 
  In the wake of the financial crisis, national and international authorities have proposed measures intended to increase the intensity of regulation of large financial institutions, requiring greater coordination among regulators and efforts to harmonize regulatory regimes. For example, the IAIS is participating in the FSB s initiative to identify global systemically important financial institutions. To this end, the IAIS devised and published a methodology to assess the systemic relevance of global insurers and a framework of policy measures to be applied to G-SIIs. In July 2013 and November 2014 the FSB published its lists of G-SIIs, based on the IAIS  assessment methodology, each of which included MetLife, Inc. While the regulatory regime that would apply to G-SIIs is still being developed, it is expected to include enhanced capital standards and supervision and other additional requirements that would not apply to companies that are not G-SIIs. The IAIS policy measures would need to be implemented by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction, and the impact on MetLife, Inc. and other designated G-SIIs is uncertain. See  Business   Regulation   International Regulation   Global Systemically Important Insurers.  
  General 
  From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of MetLife, Inc. s regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. In addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. We are also subject to other regulations and may in the future become subject to additional regulations. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
    41 

     Table of Contents  

   The Dodd-Frank Provisions Compelling the Liquidation of Certain Types of Financial Institutions Could Materially and Adversely Affect MetLife, Inc., as Such a Financial Institution and as an Investor in Other Such Financial Institutions, as well as Our Investors  
  Under provisions of Dodd-Frank, if MetLife, Inc. or another financial institution were to become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations, it could be compelled to undergo liquidation with the FDIC as receiver. For this new regime to be applicable, a number of determinations would have to be made, including that a default by the affected company would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the United States. While under this new regime an insurance company would be resolved in accordance with state insurance law, if the FDIC were appointed as the receiver for another type of a company (including an insurance holding company such as MetLife, Inc.), liquidation of that company would occur under the provisions of the new liquidation authority, and not under the Bankruptcy Code, which ordinarily governs liquidations. In an FDIC-managed liquidation, holders of a company s debt could be treated differently than under the Bankruptcy Code and similarly-situated creditors could be treated differently. In particular, unsecured creditors and shareholders are intended to bear the losses of the company being liquidated. These provisions could also apply to financial institutions whose debt securities we hold in our investment portfolio and could adversely affect our position as a creditor and the value of our holdings. 
  Dodd-Frank also provides for the assessment of charges against certain financial institutions, including non-bank SIFIs and bank holding companies and other financial companies with assets of $50 billion or more, to cover the costs of liquidating any financial company subject to the new liquidation authority. The liquidation authority could increase our funding costs. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI   Orderly Liquidation Authority.  
  Legislative and Regulatory Activity in Health Care and Other Employee Benefits Could Affect our Profitability as a Provider of Life Insurance, Annuities, and Non-Medical Health Insurance Benefit Products  
  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, signed into law on March 23, 2010, and The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, signed into law on March 30, 2010 (together, the  Health Care Act ), may lead to fundamental changes in the way that employers, including us, provide health care benefits, other benefits, and other forms of compensation to their employees and former employees. The Health Care Act also imposes requirements on us as a provider of non-medical health insurance benefits and other products and on the purchasers of certain of these products. In 2014, we became subject to a new excise tax called the  health insurer fee,  the cost of which will primarily be passed on to group purchasers of certain of our dental and vision insurance products. Additionally, with respect to dental insurance products sold to groups with fifty or fewer employees, we have changed certain of our product offerings. The cost of these product changes will also be reflected in our pricing of such products. The Health Care Act or any other related regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to offer certain of these products in the same manner as we do today. They could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide certain products, and could harm our competitive position if the Health Care Act has a disparate impact on our products compared to products offered by our competitors. 
  On July 14, 2014, the District of Columbia ( DC ) adopted a law that imposes an assessment on health insurers doing business in DC, including those that issue policies covering the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act excepted benefits (which includes critical illness, accident, dental, vision, disability income, LTC and hospital indemnity insurance, among other products the Company sells). This assessment will spread the funding of the DC public healthcare exchange s $26 million budget across all health insurers, including those that do not and/or could not sell insurance on the exchange. An insurance trade group has filed suit on behalf of the industry challenging this assessment, arguing that it is preempted by the Health Care Act, and that it is unconstitutional. On November 13, 2014, the court granted DC s motion to dismiss the complaint, which is being appealed by the insurance trade group. The Company has received assessments totaling approximately $433,000. A number of other states are also considering levying assessments on insurers, other than health insurers, to fund their healthcare exchanges. While the financial impact to the Company of DC s action will be minimal, if other states successfully adopt this model, there could be an impact on product pricing and sales.  
  In addition, we employ a substantial number of employees, including sales agents, in the United States to whom we offer employment-related benefits. We also currently provide benefits to certain of our retirees. These benefits are provided under complex plans that are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements. The Health Care Act or related regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and motivate our associates. They could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties, tax provisions or other limitations in the Health Care Act and our competitors are not. 
    42 

     Table of Contents  

   The Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries and Pension Relief Act of 2010 also includes certain provisions for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. These provisions may impact the likelihood and/or timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans and/or engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. As part of our Corporate Benefit Funding segment, we offer general account and separate account group annuity products that enable a plan sponsor to transfer these risks, often in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans. Consequently, this legislation could indirectly affect the mix of our business, with fewer closeouts and more non-guaranteed funding products, and adversely impact our results of operations. 
  Changes in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability 
  Federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also  securities,  including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies. As a result, some of MetLife, Inc. s subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws. 
  Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets, and to protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. A number of changes have recently been suggested to the laws and regulations that govern the conduct of our variable insurance products business and our distributors that could change the way we conduct our business and the products we sell. This may adversely affect our operations and profitability, including increasing the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased costs. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation.  We also may be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we offer products or conduct other activities similar to those described above. See  Business   Regulation   International Regulation.  
  Changes in Tax Laws or Interpretations of Such Laws Could Reduce Our Earnings and Materially Impact Our Operations by Increasing Our Corporate Taxes and Making Some of Our Products Less Attractive to Consumers  
  Changes in domestic or foreign tax laws or interpretations of such laws could increase our corporate taxes and reduce our earnings. Additionally, global budget deficits make it likely that governments  need for additional revenue will result in future tax proposals that will increase our effective tax rate. However, it remains difficult to predict the timing and effect that future tax law changes could have on our earnings both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions.  
  Additionally, U.S. tax laws currently afford certain benefits to life insurance and annuity products. The Obama Administration and some members of Congress have proposed certain changes to rules applicable to certain of these products and to individual income tax rates in general. Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. A shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products by our customers would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the asset base upon which we earn investment income and fees, thereby reducing our earnings and potentially affecting the value of our deferred tax assets. 
  Litigation and Regulatory Investigations Are Increasingly Common in Our Businesses and May Result in Significant Financial Losses and/or Harm to Our Reputation 
  We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. In connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs  lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain. Uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law. Material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us and risks to our business presented by these proceedings are discussed in Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Updates are provided in the notes to our interim condensed consolidated financial statements included in our subsequently filed quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, as well as in Part II, Item 1 ( Legal Proceedings ) of those quarterly reports. 
    43 

     Table of Contents  

   We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities. 
  A substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us, as well as regulatory inquiries or investigations could harm our reputation, result in material fines or penalties, result in significant legal costs and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees could be materially and adversely impacted. Regulatory inquiries and litigation may also cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry. 
  Current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. It is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. We currently have a market presence in nearly 50 countries and may be subject to additional investigations and lawsuits in these jurisdictions. Increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings in any of the countries where we operate could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  Investments-Related Risks 
  Should the Need Arise, We May Have Difficulty Selling Certain Holdings in Our Investment Portfolio or in Our Securities Lending Program in a Timely Manner and Realizing Full Value Given Their Illiquid Nature 
  There may be a limited market for certain investments we hold in our investment portfolio, making them relatively illiquid. These include privately-placed fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests, and real estate equity, such as real estate joint ventures and funds. In recent years, even some of our very high quality investments experienced reduced liquidity during periods of market volatility or disruption. If we were forced to sell certain of our investments during periods of market volatility or disruption, market prices may be lower than our carrying value in such investments. This could result in realized losses which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and financial position. 
  Similarly, we loan blocks of our securities to third parties (primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks) through our securities lending program, including fixed maturity and equity securities, short-term investments and cash equivalents. Under this program, we obtain collateral, usually cash, at the inception of a loan and typically purchase securities with the cash collateral. Upon the return to us of these loaned securities, we must return to the third party the cash collateral we received. If the cash collateral has been invested in securities, we need to sell the securities. However, in some cases, the maturity of those securities may exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the estimated fair value of the securities we need to sell may fall below the amount of cash received. 
  If we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral under our securities lending program or otherwise need significant amounts of cash on short notice and we are forced to sell securities, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. In the event of a forced sale, accounting guidance requires the recognition of a loss for securities in an unrealized loss position and may require the impairment of other securities based on our ability to hold those securities, which would negatively impact our financial condition. In addition, under stressful capital market and economic conditions, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities. Furthermore, if we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities over time, the amount of net investment income generated by these activities will also likely decline. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Securities Lending.  
    44 

     Table of Contents  

   Our Requirements to Pledge Collateral or Make Payments Related to Declines in Estimated Fair Value of Derivatives Transactions or Specified Assets in Connection with OTC-Cleared and OTC-Bilateral Transactions May Adversely Affect Our Liquidity, Expose Us to Central Clearinghouse and Counterparty Credit Risk, and Increase our Costs of Hedging 
  Substantially all of our derivatives transactions require us to pledge collateral related to any decline in the net estimated fair value of such derivatives transactions executed through a specific broker at a clearinghouse or entered into with a specific counterparty on a bilateral basis. Certain derivatives financing transactions require us to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in the estimated fair value of the specified assets under certain circumstances to central clearinghouses or our counterparties. The amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make under our derivatives transactions may increase under certain circumstances and will likely increase under Dodd-Frank as a result of the requirement to pledge initial margin for OTC derivatives that are cleared and settled through central clearing counterparties ( OTC-cleared ) transactions entered into after June 10, 2013 and for OTC derivatives that are bilateral contracts between two counterparties ( OTC-bilateral ) entered into after the phase-in period, which would be applicable to us in 2019 if the Prudential Regulators, the CFTC and the SEC adopt the final margin requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives published by the Bank of International Settlements and International Organization of Securities Commissions in September 2013 and re-proposed by the Prudential Regulators and CFTC in September 2014. Each of these items could also adversely affect our liquidity. The Prudential Regulators, CFTC, central clearinghouses and counterparties may also restrict or eliminate certain types of previously eligible collateral, which could also adversely affect our liquidity, or charge us to pledge such collateral, which would increase our costs. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Regulation of Over-the-Counter Derivatives,   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Pledged Collateral,  and Note 9 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Gross Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities and Defaults, Downgrades or Other Events May Result in Future Impairments to the Carrying Value of Such Securities, Resulting in a Reduction in Our Net Income 
  Fixed maturity securities represented 71% of our total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2014. Fixed maturity and equity securities classified as available-for-sale ( AFS ) securities are reported at their estimated fair value. Unrealized gains or losses on AFS securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded from net income. In recent periods, as a result of low interest rates, the unrealized gains on our fixed maturity securities have far exceeded the unrealized losses. However, if interest rates rise, our unrealized gains would decrease and our unrealized losses would increase, perhaps substantially. The accumulated change in estimated fair value of these AFS securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available-for-Sale.  
  The occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of securities or the underlying collateral of structured securities could cause the estimated fair value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and corresponding earnings to decline and cause the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. A ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. With economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. Similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to support that security to maintain our RBC levels. Levels of writedowns or impairments are impacted by intent to sell, or our assessment of the likelihood that we will be required to sell, fixed maturity securities, as well as our intent and ability to hold equity securities which have declined in value until recovery. Realized losses or impairments on these securities may have a material adverse effect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period. 
    45 

     Table of Contents  

   Our Valuation of Securities and Investments and the Determination of the Amount of Allowances and Impairments Taken on Our Investments Are Subjective and Include Methodologies, Estimations and Assumptions Which Are Subject to Differing Interpretations and Market Conditions and, if Changed, Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or Financial Condition 
  Fixed maturity, equity, fair value option ( FVO ) and trading securities, as well as short-term investments that are reported at estimated fair value represent the majority of our total cash and investments. We define fair value generally as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. Considerable judgment is often required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material effect of the estimated fair value amounts. During periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. In addition, in times of financial market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data may become illiquid. In those cases, the valuation process includes inputs that are less observable and require more subjectivity and management judgment. Valuations may result in estimated fair values which vary significantly from the amount at which the investments may ultimately be sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly. Decreases in the fair value of securities we hold may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments  and Notes 1 and 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. We reflect any changes in allowances and impairments in earnings as such evaluations are revised. However, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. In addition, any such future impairments or allowances could have a materially adverse effect on our earnings and financial position. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Investment Impairments  and Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Defaults on Our Mortgage Loans and Volatility in Performance May Adversely Affect Our Profitability 
  Our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties. We establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments, which are based on loan risk characteristics, historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market fundamentals and outlooks, as well as other relevant factors. In addition, substantially all of our mortgage loans held-for-investment have balloon payment maturities. An increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments or fluctuations in their performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  Further, any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and consequently on our results of operations or financial condition. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. Moreover, our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. In addition, legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms of mortgage loans could be enacted. We cannot predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business or investments. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Mortgage Loans.  
    46 

     Table of Contents  

   The Defaults or Deteriorating Credit of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect Us  
  We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, central clearinghouses, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and investment funds and other financial institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. We also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities, derivatives, joint venture, hedge fund and equity investments. Further, potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking system and financial markets, such as investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and other intervention, whether under existing legal authority or any new authority that may be created, or lack of action by governments and central banks, as well as deterioration in the banks  credit standing, could negatively impact these instruments, securities, transactions and investments or limit our ability to trade with them. Any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these investments or other changes may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.  
  Risks Related to Our Business 
  Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability 
  Our international operations face political, legal, financial, operational and other risks. These operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability (including any resulting economic or trade sanctions), dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities and regulators, such as the retroactive application of new requirements on our current and prior activities or operations and the imposition of regulations limiting our ability to distribute our products. Such actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions and could indirectly affect our business in other jurisdictions as well. Some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. See  Business   Regulation   International Regulation  and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,  as well as    Regulatory and Legal Risks   Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.  
  We have operations in regions where the legal and political systems and regulatory frameworks are subject to instability and disruptions. For example, instability has increased in many parts of the Middle East as well as Argentina, Ukraine and Russia. Lack of legal certainty and stability in these regions exposes our operations there to increased risk of disruption and to adverse or unpredictable actions by regulators and may make it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts, which may negatively impact our business in these regions. 
  We have market presence in nearly 50 different countries and increased exposure to risks posed by local and regional economic conditions. Europe continues to experience a recession and overall sluggish economic performance, with concerns over low inflation becoming more pronounced. Unfavorable economic conditions in Europe could adversely impact the demand for our products, negatively impact earnings, adversely affect the performance of our investments or result in impairments, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See    Economic Environment and Capital Markets-Related Risks   If Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally Persist, They May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations.  Countries in Europe s perimeter region have been particularly affected by the recession, resulting in increased national debts and depressed economic activity. We have significant operations and investments in these countries which could be adversely affected by economic developments such as higher taxes, growing inflation, deflation, decreasing government spending, rising unemployment and currency instability. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Investments   Current Environment.  
    47 

     Table of Contents  

   In addition, we face substantial exposure to the Japanese economy given our operations there. Despite some recovery in gross domestic product ( GDP ) growth and rising inflation in the first half of 2014, momentum has slowed and structural weaknesses and debt sustainability have yet to be addressed effectively. This leaves the economy vulnerable to further disruption, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See    Risks Related to Our Business   Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability,  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Industry Trends   Financial and Economic Environment.  
  Furthermore, we rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers  associations and trade unions in some countries. In several countries, including China and India, we operate with local business partners and managing these partner relationships poses risks to our business objectives. If our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that country. 
  Lastly, we are continuing to expand our international operations in certain markets where we operate and in selected new markets. This may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. The prospects of our business also may be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to manage the growth of such international operations successfully. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing such future growth. Further, operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local political, economic and market conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. 
  Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability 
  We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and net income from foreign operations and issuance of non-U.S. dollar denominated instruments, including guaranteed interest contracts and funding agreements. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our non-U.S. dollar denominated investments, our investments in foreign subsidiaries, and our net income from foreign operations. In addition, from time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. Our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in these emerging markets. See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  
  In addition, certain of our life and annuity products are exposed to foreign exchange rate risk. Payments under these contracts, depending on the circumstances, may be required to be made in different currencies and may not be the legal tender in the country whose law governs the particular product. Changes in exchange rate movements and the imposition of capital controls may also directly impact the liability valuation that may not be entirely hedged. If the currency upon which expected future payments are made strengthens, the liability valuation may increase, which may result in a reduction of net income. 
  Historically, we have matched substantially all of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with investments denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our U.S. dollar basis consolidated financial statements. Although we take certain actions to address this risk, including entering into foreign currency derivatives, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. Our reported results could also be adversely affected if the economy of one or more of our foreign subsidiaries is determined to be  highly inflationary,  generally defined by a cumulative inflation rate of approximately 100% or more over a three-year period. See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  
  We face substantial exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in the yen/U.S. dollar exchange rate because we have substantial operations in Japan and a significant portion of our premiums and investment income in Japan are received in yen. Most claims and expenses associated with our operations in Japan are also paid in yen and we primarily purchase yen-denominated assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. These and other yen-denominated financial statement items are, however, translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, fluctuations in the yen/U.S. dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and results of operations. Our Japan operation does assume some currency exposure by backing a portion of surplus and yen-denominated liabilities with U.S. dollar assets. Although this represents risk to our Japan operation, this activity reduces yen exposure at the enterprise level. 
    48 

     Table of Contents  

   Due to our significant international operations, during periods when any foreign currency in which we derive our revenues weakens (strengthens), translating amounts expressed in that currency into U.S. dollars causes fewer (more) U.S. dollars to be reported. Any unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The weakening of a foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar will generally adversely affect the value of investments in U.S. dollar terms and reduce the level of reserves denominated in that currency. 
  An Inability to Access Our Credit Facilities Could Result in a Reduction in Our Liquidity and Lead to Downgrades in Our Credit and Financial Strength Ratings 
  We rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity. The availability of these facilities could be critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market when alternative sources of credit are tight. These credit facilities contain certain administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants, including a requirement to maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Credit and Committed Facilities  and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Our right to borrow funds under these facilities is subject to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow under these facilities is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the facilities to provide funds. Our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the facilities, would restrict our ability to access these credit facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
  We May Need to Fund Deficiencies in Our Closed Block; Assets Allocated to the Closed Block Benefit Only the Holders of Closed Block Policies  
  MLIC s plan of reorganization, as amended, established in connection with its demutualization (the  Plan of Reorganization ), required that we establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own individual participating whole life insurance policies of MLIC in force at the time of the demutualization are met. We allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block may not be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. If they are not, we must fund the shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. 
  The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies in the closed block. In addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. Any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders. 
  The assets and liabilities of the closed block were $42.8 billion and $46.2 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2014. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  A Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or Credit Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
  Financial strength ratings are published by various Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations ( NRSRO ) and similar entities not formally recognized as NRSROs. They indicate the NRSROs  opinion regarding an insurance company s ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, and are important to maintaining public confidence in our products and our competitive position. See  Business   Company Ratings  for additional information regarding our financial strength ratings. 
    49 

     Table of Contents  

   Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: 
     reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; 
     adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; 
     materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; 
     requiring us to post additional collateral under certain of our financing and derivative transactions; 
     requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive ; and 
     adversely     affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all. 
  In addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, various NRSROs also publish credit ratings for MetLife, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries. Credit ratings indicate the NRSROs  opinion regarding a debt issuer s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity. Downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including limiting our access to capital markets, potentially increasing the cost of debt, and requiring us to post collateral. See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the impact of a one-notch downgrade with respect to derivative transactions with credit rating downgrade triggers and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Pledged Collateral  for information on the impact of a one-notch downgrade. See also  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Capital   Rating Agencies.   
  In view of the difficulties experienced by many financial institutions as a result of the financial crisis and ensuing global recession, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the NRSROs will continue to heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies, will continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will continue to request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. Our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any NRSRO. 
  Reinsurance May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses  
  As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. While reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. For example, for some of our group businesses under which the policies and related reinsurance are subject to periodic (typically annual) renewal, prices may increase at any renewal. Also, for most of our traditional life reinsurance agreements, it is common for the reinsurer to have a right to increase reinsurance rates on in-force business if there is a systematic deterioration of mortality in the market as a whole. Any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. See  Business   Reinsurance Activity  and    Risks Related to Our Business   If the Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification Arrangements or to the Derivatives We Use to Hedge Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   
  If the Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification Arrangements or to the Derivatives We Use to Hedge Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
  We use reinsurance, indemnification and derivatives to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. In general, reinsurance, indemnification and derivatives do not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers, indemnitors, counterparties and central clearinghouses. A reinsurer s, indemnitor s, counterparty s or central clearinghouse s insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance agreements, indemnity agreements or derivatives agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including our liquidity. See  Business   Reinsurance Activity.  
    50 

     Table of Contents  

   In addition, we use derivatives to hedge various business risks. We enter into a variety of derivatives, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties on a bilateral basis for uncleared OTC derivatives and with clearing broker and central clearinghouses for OTC-cleared derivatives. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Derivatives.  If our counterparties, clearing brokers or central clearinghouses fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivatives, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. This risk is more pronounced in light of the stresses suffered by financial institutions over the past few years. Such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  
  Differences Between Actual Claims Experience and Underwriting and Reserving Assumptions May Adversely Affect Our Financial Results 
  Our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. Such amounts are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. To the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase our liabilities. 
  Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. Such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. We evaluate our liabilities periodically based on accounting requirements, which change from time to time, the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. If the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. Such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See  Business   Policyholder Liabilities  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Policyholder Liabilities.  
  Catastrophes May Adversely Impact Liabilities for Policyholder Claims and Reinsurance Availability 
  Our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic events. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage or loss of life or property damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. Claims resulting from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. In addition, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of issuers of obligations we hold in our investment portfolio, resulting in impairments to these obligations, and the financial condition of our reinsurers, thereby increasing the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. Large-scale catastrophes may also reduce the overall level of economic activity in affected countries which could hurt our business and the value of our investments or our ability to write new business. It is possible that increases in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of insured lives or property, could increase the severity of claims we receive from future catastrophic events. 
  Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. Significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century; however, the likelihood, timing, and severity of a future pandemic cannot be predicted. A significant pandemic could have a major impact on the global economy or the economies of particular countries or regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system, food supply, consumption, overall economic output and, eventually, on the financial markets. In addition, a pandemic that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt our business operations. The effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. In our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. These events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition. 
    51 

     Table of Contents  

   Our property   casualty businesses have experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on their business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we make every effort to limit our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not eliminate all risk. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. Historically, substantially all of our property   casualty catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners coverages. However, catastrophes may also affect other property   casualty coverages. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. In addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may increase the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes. 
  We have hurricane exposure in coastal sections of the northeastern U.S. (including lower New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts), the south Atlantic states (including Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Florida) and the Gulf Coast (including Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and Texas). We also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along the New Madrid fault line in the central U.S. and in the Pacific Northwest. 
  Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. We cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. From time to time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer s ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. While we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  Most of the jurisdictions in which our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life and property   casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations. These associations are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers, who may become impaired, insolvent or fail, for example, following the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. In addition, certain states have government owned or controlled organizations providing life and property   casualty insurance to their citizens. The activities of such organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy of guaranty fund assessments. Many of these organizations also have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the guaranty associations described above. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation   Guaranty Associations and Similar Arrangements  and  Business   Regulation   International Regulation.  
  While in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against MetLife have not been material, it is possible that a large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations in a particular period. We have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate, but additional liabilities may be necessary. See Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property   casualty and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. See    Risks Related to Our Business   Reinsurance May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses.  
  Our Statutory Life Insurance Reserve Financings May Be Subject to Cost Increases and New Financings May Be Subject to Limited Market Capacity 
  We currently utilize capital markets solutions to finance a portion of our statutory reserve requirements for several products, including, but not limited to, our level premium term life and ULSG, as well as MLIC s closed block. While we have financing facilities in place for certain previously written business, certain of these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of MetLife or are subject to periodic repricing. Any resulting cost increases could negatively impact our financial results. 
    52 

     Table of Contents  

   Future capacity for these statutory reserve funding structures in the marketplace is not guaranteed. Currently, the use of captive reinsurers is being studied by the Department of Financial Services and the NAIC. See    Regulatory and Legal Risks   Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.  Insurance regulators in a few states, including New York and California, have imposed a moratorium on new reinsurance transactions between life insurers domiciled in those states and captive reinsurers. If other state insurance regulators determine to restrict the use of captive reinsurers for purposes of funding reserve requirements or capacity in the capital markets otherwise becomes unavailable for a prolonged period of time, thereby hindering our ability to obtain funding for these new structures, our ability to write additional business in a cost effective manner may be impacted. 
  Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability 
  We believe competition amongst insurance companies is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. We compete globally with a large number of other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability ratings. Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. In some circumstances, national banks that sell annuity products of life insurers may also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. Additionally, many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually. There is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors than they could renewing coverage with us. These competitive pressures may adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell our products in the future. Furthermore, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. See  Business   Competition.  
  The insurance industry distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as banks and broker-dealers. An increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry s sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market insurance products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base. Consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. 
  In addition, since numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation, legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment for our business may have, over time, the effect of supporting or burdening some aspects of the financial services industry more than others. This can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry. See  Business   Regulation,     Regulatory and Legal Risks   Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth,  and    Regulatory and Legal Risks   Changes in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability.  
  If Our Business Does Not Perform Well, We May Be Required to Recognize an Impairment of Our Goodwill or Other Long-Lived Assets or to Establish a Valuation Allowance Against the Deferred Income Tax Asset, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or Financial Condition 
  Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that the fair value of the reporting unit may be less than the carrying value of that reporting unit. We perform our annual goodwill impairment testing during the third quarter of each year based upon data as of the close of the second quarter. Goodwill associated with a business acquisition is not tested for impairment during the year the business is acquired unless there is a significant identified impairment event. Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the  reporting unit  level. A reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment under certain circumstances. 
  The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business, which may be adversely impacted by prolonged market declines. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. Such writedowns could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Goodwill  and Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    53 

     Table of Contents  

   Long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also require impairment testing. This testing is done to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we will be unable to recover the carrying amount of the asset group. Such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. 
  Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management s determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate future taxable income. If, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. In addition, changes in the corporate tax rates could affect the value of our deferred tax assets and may require a write-off of some of those assets. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Income Taxes.  
  If Our Business Does Not Perform Well or if Actual Experience Versus Estimates Used in Valuing and Amortizing DAC, Deferred Sales Inducements ( DSI ) and VOBA Vary Significantly, We May Be Required to Accelerate the Amortization and/or Impair the DAC, DSI and VOBA Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or Financial Condition 
  We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that are related directly to the successful acquisition of new and renewal insurance business are deferred and referred to as DAC. Bonus amounts credited to certain policyholders, either immediately upon receiving a deposit or as excess interest credits for a period of time, are deferred and referred to as DSI. The recovery of DAC and DSI is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. The amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, we anticipate that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. The aforementioned factors enter into management s estimates of gross profits or margins, which generally are used to amortize such costs. 
  If actual gross profits or margins are less than originally expected, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. Significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of DAC and DSI related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Industry Trends   Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment  for a discussion of how significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. 
  VOBA represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the acquisition date. The estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. In the event actual experience on the purchased business varies from these projections, we will be required to revise our estimates, which results in changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and also could result in a charge to income. In addition, VOBA is amortized similarly to DAC and DSI. Accordingly, an acceleration of the amortization of VOBA would occur if actual gross profits or margins are less than originally expected. In such a case, the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in which the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. Furthermore, significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the VOBA related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired  and Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further consideration of DAC and VOBA. 
  Guarantees Within Certain of Our Products May Decrease Our Earnings, Increase the Volatility of Our Results, Result in Higher Risk Management Costs and Expose Us to Increased Counterparty Risk  
  Certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits ( GMDBs ), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ( GMWBs ), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ( GMABs ), and guaranteed minimum income benefits ( GMIBs ). These guarantees are designed to protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets and interest rates. Any such periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of our liabilities associated with those products. An increase in these liabilities would result in a decrease in our net income. 
    54 

     Table of Contents  

   We use hedging and risk management strategies to mitigate the liability exposure and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities. These strategies involve the use of reinsurance and derivatives, which may not be completely effective. For example, in the event that reinsurers, derivative counterparties or central clearinghouses are unable or unwilling to pay, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits. See    Risks Related to Our Business   If the Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification Arrangements or to the Derivatives We Use to Hedge Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   
  In addition, hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. Furthermore, we are subject to the risk that changes in policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produce economic losses not addressed by the risk management techniques employed. These, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including net income, financial condition or liquidity. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition   Policyholder Liabilities   Variable Annuity Guarantees  and Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further consideration of the risks associated with guaranteed benefits. 
  Acquisition-Related Risks 
  We Could Face Difficulties, Unforeseen Liabilities, Asset Impairments or Rating Actions Arising from Business Acquisitions or Integrating and Managing Growth of Such Businesses, Dispositions of Businesses, or Legal Entity Reorganizations  
  We have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. Such activity exposes us to a number of risks arising from (i) potential difficulties achieving projected financial results including the costs and benefits of integration; (ii) unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments; (iii) the scope and duration of rights to indemnification for losses; (iv) the use of capital which could be used for other purposes; (v) rating agency reactions; (vi) regulatory requirements that could impact our operations or capital requirements; (vii) changes in statutory or U.S. GAAP accounting principles, practices or policies; and (viii) certain other risks specifically arising from joint venture or legal entity reorganization activities.  
  The valuation and structure for any transaction reflect our financial projections and other qualitative and quantitative factors. Every transaction exposes us to the risk that actual results may materially differ from what we have projected. Factors that can cause our financial projections to vary materially from ultimate experience include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic, business growth, demographic, policyholder behavior, regulatory and political conditions. 
  In addition, our ability to achieve certain financial benefits we anticipate from any acquisitions of businesses will depend in part upon our ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to integrate such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may take longer than expected. The integration of operations and differences in operational culture may require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management s attention from day-to-day business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be less than expected. 
    55 

     Table of Contents  

   The success with which we are able to integrate acquired operations will depend on our ability to manage a variety of issues, including the following:     
             
    Loss of key personnel or higher than expected employee attrition rates could adversely affect the performance of the acquired business and our ability to integrate it successfully. 
                
    Customers of the acquired business may reduce, delay or defer decisions concerning their use of its products and services as a result of the acquisition or uncertainty related to the consummation of the acquisition, including, for example, potential unfamiliarity with the MetLife brand in regions where we did not have a market presence prior to the acquisition. 
                
    If the acquired business relies upon independent distributors to distribute its products, these distributors may not continue to generate the same volume of business for us after the acquisition. Independent distributors may reexamine the scope of their relationship with the acquired business or us as a result of the acquisition and decide to curtail or eliminate distribution of our products. 
                
    If the acquired business relies on continued distribution access with another party, we are also exposed to the risk of loss of exclusivity or change in access due to regulatory changes. 
                
    Integrating acquired operations with our existing operations may require us to coordinate geographically separated organizations, address possible differences in corporate culture and management philosophies, merge financial processes and risk and compliance procedures, combine separate information technology platforms and integrate operations that were previously closely tied to the former parent of the acquired business or other service providers. 
                
    In cases where we or an acquired business operates in certain markets through joint ventures, the acquisition may affect the continued success and prospects of the joint venture. Our ability to exercise management control or influence over these joint venture operations and our investment in them will depend on the continued cooperation between the joint venture participants and on the terms of the joint venture agreements, which allocate control among the joint venture participants. We may face financial or other exposure in the event that any of these joint venture partners fail to meet their respective obligations under the joint venture, encounter financial difficulty or elect to alter, modify or terminate the relationship. 
                
    We may incur significant costs in connection with any acquisition and the related integration. The costs and liabilities actually incurred in connection with an acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated. 
     There could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, which arise in connection with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future. 
  In addition, there may be liabilities or asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing acquisition-related due diligence investigations. Furthermore, even for obligations and liabilities that we do discover during the due diligence process, neither the valuation adjustment nor the contractual protections we negotiate may be sufficient to fully protect us from losses. Although we generally have rights to indemnification for certain losses, our rights are limited by survival periods for bringing claims and limitations on the nature and amount of losses we may recover, and we cannot be certain that indemnification will be, among other things, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any loss we may suffer. For example, we are indemnified under the stock purchase agreement dated as of March 7, 2010, as amended, by and among MetLife, Inc., American International Group, Inc. ( AIG ) and ALICO Holdings, LLC (now AM Holdings, LLC ( AM Holdings )), a subsidiary of AIG, for various tax matters, including U.S. federal income taxes attributable to periods during which the ALICO business was included in AIG s consolidated federal income tax return. It is possible, however, that any such indemnification may not be fully collectible. 
  Likewise, when we dispose of subsidiaries or operations, we may remain liable to the acquiror or to third parties for certain losses or costs arising from the divested business. We may also incur a loss on the disposition.  
  The use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would consume capital resources, which could affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes. We also may not be able to raise sufficient funds to consummate an acquisition if, for example, we are unable to sell our securities or close related bridge credit facilities. Moreover, as a result of uncertainty and risks associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, rating agencies may take certain actions with respect to the ratings assigned to MetLife, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries. There could also be changes in regulatory requirements that could impact our operations or capital requirements in unanticipated ways. Changes in statutory or U.S. GAAP accounting principles, practices or policies could also create unforeseen difficulties. 
    56 

     Table of Contents  

   We may also participate in joint ventures with other companies or government enterprises in various international markets, including joint ventures where we may have a lesser degree of control over the business operations, which may expose us to additional operational, financial, legal or compliance risks. We may be dependent on a joint venture counterparty for capital, product distribution, local market knowledge, or other resources. Limits on our ownership levels under local laws or regulations may increase our dependence on joint venture counterparties. A joint venture may require an investment of considerable management, financial and operational resources to establish sufficient infrastructure such as underwriting, actuarial, risk management, compliance or other processes. If we are unable to effectively cooperate with joint venture counterparties, or any joint venture counterparty fails to meets its obligations under the joint venture arrangement, encounters financial difficulty, or elects to alter, modify or terminate the relationship, we may be unable to achieve our objectives and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. 
  In addition, we may reorganize or consolidate the legal entities through which we conduct business. For example, in November 2014, the Company completed the Mergers. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition   Executive Summary   Other Key Information   Significant Events.  The implementation of legal entity reorganizations is a complex undertaking and involves a number of risks similar to those that are present in the case of an acquisition. Many aspects of these transactions are subject to regulatory approvals from a number of different jurisdictions. We may not obtain needed regulatory approvals in the timeframe anticipated or at all, which could reduce or prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of these transactions. These transactions or the related regulatory approvals may entail modifications of certain aspects of our operations, the composition of certain of our investment portfolios, and/or the cost of our derivatives hedging activities, which could result in additional costs or reduce net investment income. We may also incur additional expenses in connection with planning and effectuating these mergers and related transactions. We may encounter delays or unforeseen problems in making changes to our information technology systems that are needed to reflect the mergers. Loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to carry out these transactions. In addition, these transactions may absorb significant attention from our management, which could reduce management s focus on other aspects of our business. Any of these risks, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 
  Capital-Related Risks 
  Regulatory Restrictions and Uncertainty and Restrictions Under the Terms of Certain of Our Securities May Prevent Us from Repurchasing Our Stock and Paying Dividends at the Level We Wish  
  The declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. There is no requirement or assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends. In addition, as a result of MetLife, Inc. s designation as a non-bank SIFI, we may be subject to restrictions arising from Federal Reserve regulation, including capital planning and stress testing requirements. The capital requirements that will apply to non-bank SIFIs are unclear. See    Regulatory and Legal Risks   Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.  In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock is subject to restrictions arising from the terms of our preferred stock, junior subordinated debentures and trust securities, so called  dividend stopper  provisions, in situations where we may be experiencing financial stress. For purposes of this discussion,  junior subordinated debentures  are deemed to include MetLife s Fixed-to-Floating Exchangeable Surplus Trust Securities, which are exchangeable for junior subordinated debentures, and which contain terms with the same substantive effects in this discussion as the terms of MetLife, Inc. s junior subordinated debentures. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our preferred stock and interest on our junior subordinated debentures are also restricted by the terms of those securities.  
  Regulatory Restrictions 
  The Federal Reserve Board is required under Dodd-Frank to adopt enhanced prudential standards, including heightened capital requirements and stress testing requirements, for non-bank SIFIs. However, it has not yet done so, but it has indicated that it intends to apply enhanced prudential standards to non-bank SIFIs by rule or order. The manner in which these proposed standards might apply to MetLife, Inc., as a non-bank SIFI, remains unclear. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI.  It is possible that these requirements, or any others adopted, could restrict our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our common stock. In addition, MetLife, Inc. may not be able to pay dividends if it does not receive sufficient funds from its operating subsidiaries, which are themselves subject to separate regulatory restrictions on their ability to pay dividends. See    Capital-Related Risks   As A Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and Pay Dividends.  
    57 

     Table of Contents  

    Dividend Stopper  Provisions in Our Preferred Stock and Junior Subordinated Debentures 
  Certain terms of our preferred stock and our junior subordinated debentures may prevent us from purchasing our common stock or paying dividends on our common stock in certain circumstances. Moreover, MetLife, Inc. is a party to certain replacement capital covenants which limit its ability to eliminate these restrictions through the repayment, redemption or purchase of preferred stock or junior subordinated debentures by requiring MetLife, subject to certain limitations, to receive cash proceeds during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities prior to any repayment, redemption or purchase. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of such covenants in effect with respect to junior subordinated debentures and Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of such restrictions with respect to the preferred stock. 
  Under our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures, if we have not paid the full dividends on our preferred stock for a dividend period, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock for that period. If we have not paid in full the accrued interest through the most recent interest payment date on our junior subordinated debentures, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock), subject to certain exceptions. 
  Trigger Events for the Restrictions on the Payment of Dividends on Our Preferred Stock and Restrictions on the Payment of Interest on Our Junior Subordinated Debentures 
  In addition, the preferred stock and the junior subordinated debentures contain provisions that would automatically suspend the payment of preferred stock dividends and junior subordinated debenture interest payments if MetLife, Inc. fails to meet certain tests ( Trigger Events ) at specified times, although in such cases MetLife would be permitted to make the payments if it were able to utilize the  Alternative Payment Mechanism  described below. As a result of the suspension of these payments, the  dividend stopper  provisions would come into effect. A  Trigger Event  would occur if the RBC ratio of MetLife s largest U.S. insurance subsidiaries in the aggregate (as defined in the applicable instrument) were to be less than 175% of the company action level based on the subsidiaries  prior year annual financial statements filed (generally around March 1) with state insurance commissioners. A  Trigger Event  would also occur if, at the end of a quarter, consolidated GAAP net income for the four-quarter period ending two quarters before such quarter-end is zero or less and adjusted shareholders  equity (as defined in the applicable instrument), as of such quarter-end and the end of the quarter two quarters before such quarter-end, declined by 10% or more from its level 10 quarters before such quarter-end. The Trigger Event would continue until there is no longer a Trigger Event at the specified time, and adjusted shareholders  equity is no longer 10% or more below its level at the beginning of each measurement period described above that is associated with a  Trigger Event.  
  In order to use the  Alternative Payment Mechanism  referred to above to declare and pay preferred stock dividends or interest on junior subordinated debentures, MetLife must sell common stock during the 90 days preceding the dividend declaration date or sell common stock or certain kinds of warrants to purchase common stock during the 180 days prior to the interest payment date, make dividend or interest payments not in excess of the net proceeds of these sales, and satisfy other specified conditions. 
  Dividends on Our Preferred Stock Are Subject to Declaration by Our Board of Directors 
  In addition to the provisions described above that prevent us from declaring and paying dividends on our preferred stock, dividends on our preferred stock are subject to declaration each quarter by our Board of Directors. If our Board of Directors does not declare dividends on the preferred stock for any quarterly dividend period, the  dividend stopper  provisions in our preferred stock would prevent us from repurchasing or paying dividends on our common stock for that period. 
  Optional Deferral of Interest on the Junior Subordinated Debentures 
  The junior subordinated debentures provide that MetLife may, at its option and provided that certain conditions are met, defer payment of interest without giving rise to an event of default for periods of up to 10 years (although after five years MetLife, Inc. would be obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell equity securities to raise proceeds to pay the interest), with no limitation on the number of deferral periods that MetLife, Inc. may begin so long as all accrued and unpaid interest is paid with respect to prior deferral periods. If MetLife, Inc. were to elect to defer payments of interest, the  dividend stopper  provisions in the junior subordinated debentures would thus prevent MetLife, Inc. from repurchasing or paying dividends on its common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock) during the period of deferral, subject to exceptions. 
  See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about these restrictions. 
    58 

     Table of Contents  

   As a Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and Pay Dividends 
  MetLife, Inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. Dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under its tax sharing agreement with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay preferred and common stock dividends. If the cash MetLife, Inc. receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, MetLife, Inc. may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. 
  The payment of dividends and other distributions to MetLife, Inc. by its U.S. insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. In addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to MetLife, Inc. if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. The payment of dividends and other distributions by insurance companies is also influenced by business conditions and rating agency considerations. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   MetLife, Inc.   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Dividends from Subsidiaries.  See also    Regulatory and Legal Risks   Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth.  
  Any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries and branches to MetLife, Inc. could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. See  Business   Regulation   International Regulation  and    Risks Related to Our Business   Our International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks, Including Exposure to Local and Regional Economic Conditions, That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability.  
  Operational Risks 
  Our Risk Management Policies and Procedures May Leave Us Exposed to Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk, Which Could Negatively Affect Our Business 
  We have devoted significant resources to develop and periodically update our risk management policies and procedures to reflect ongoing review of our risks and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive and may not identify every risk to which we are exposed. Many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. As a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. In addition, more extensive and perhaps different risk management policies and procedures might have to be implemented under pending regulations. See  Business  Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI  and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  
  The Continued Threat of Terrorism and Ongoing Military Actions May Adversely Affect the Value of Our Investment Portfolio and the Level of Claim Losses We Incur 
  The continued threat of terrorism, both within the U.S. and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. The value of assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. Companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions and such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities or mortgage loans. Terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the U.S. or abroad and result in higher than anticipated claims under our insurance policies. See    Economic Environment and Capital Markets-Related Risks   If Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally Persist, They May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations.  
    59 

     Table of Contents  

   The Failure in Cyber- or Other Information Security Systems, as well as the Occurrence of Events Unanticipated in Our Disaster Recovery Systems and Management Continuity Planning Could Result in a Loss or Disclosure of Confidential Information, Damage to Our Reputation and Impairment of Our Ability to Conduct Business Effectively  
  Our business is highly dependent upon the effective operation of our computer systems. We rely on these systems throughout our business for a variety of functions, including processing claims and applications, providing information to customers and distributors, performing actuarial analyses and maintaining financial records. We also retain confidential and proprietary information on our computer systems and we rely on sophisticated technologies to maintain the security of that information. Our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyberattacks or other computer-related penetrations. While, to date, MetLife has not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity, administrative and technical controls and other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber-incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. 
  In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, epidemic, industrial accident, blackout, computer virus, terrorist attack, cyberattack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. In addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable following a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. These interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers  ability to provide goods and services and our employees  ability to perform their job responsibilities. 
  The failure of our computer systems and/or our disaster recovery plans for any reason could cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. Such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. Although we conduct due diligence, negotiate contractual provisions and, in many cases, conduct periodic reviews of our vendors, distributors, and other third-parties that provide operational or information technology services to us to confirm compliance with MetLife s information security standards, the failure of such third-parties  computer systems and/or their disaster recovery plans for any reason might cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. Such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. While we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third-party liability and first party liability coverages, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect us against all losses. MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries maintain a primary cybersecurity and privacy liability insurance policy with a limit of $15 million, and have additional coverage for cybersecurity and privacy liability available under blended professional liability excess coverage policies with a total limit of $210 million.  
  Our Associates May Take Excessive Risks Which Could Negatively Affect Our Financial Condition and Business 
  As an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of accepting certain risks. The associates who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, and other associates, do so in part by making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk. These include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines and standards, product design and pricing, determining what assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which business opportunities to pursue, and other decisions. We endeavor, in the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks; however, associates may take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation programs and practices. Similarly, although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates  business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, and to prevent employee misconduct, these controls and procedures may not be effective. If our associates take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations. 
    60 

     Table of Contents  

   General Risks 
  MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors May Influence the Outcome of Stockholder Votes on Many Matters Due to the Voting Provisions of the MetLife Policyholder Trust 
  Under the Plan, we established the MetLife Policyholder Trust to hold the shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or policy credits under the plan. As of February 23, 2015, the Trust held 179,156,108 shares, or 16.0%, of the outstanding shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock. Because of voting provisions of the Trust and the number of shares held by it, the Trust may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder vote. Except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held in the Trust in accordance with the recommendations given by MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors to its stockholders or, if the Board gives no such recommendations, as directed by the Board. As a result of the voting provisions of the Trust, the Board of Directors may be able to influence the outcome of votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, excluding certain fundamental corporate actions, so long as the Trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock. 
  If the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified in the Trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the Trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the Trust in proportion to the instructions it receives. These actions include: 
             
    an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a nominee or nominees of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors or a vote on a stockholder s proposal to oppose a Board nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders, subject to certain conditions; 
                
    a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or dissolution, of MetLife, Inc., in each case requiring a vote of stockholders under applicable Delaware law; 
                
    any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion of shares of common stock held by the Trust for cash, securities or other property; and 
                
    any proposal requiring MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors to amend or redeem the rights under MetLife, Inc. s stockholder rights plan, other than a proposal with respect to which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action under Delaware law. MetLife, Inc. does not currently have a stockholder rights plan. 
     If a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the Trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by Trust beneficiaries. 
  The MetLife Policyholder Trust Agreement provides that we may terminate the Trust once the percentage of outstanding shares held in the Trust falls to 25%. The winding up of the Trust must commence 90 days after we provide the trustee with notice that the percentage of outstanding shares held in the Trust is 10% or less. In connection with any termination of the Trust, all of the shares of common stock then held in the Trust will need to be distributed to the respective Trust beneficiaries, unless we offer to purchase all or a portion of such Trust shares. In connection with the termination of the Trust and such a distribution, we may incur costs related to regulatory filings, mailings to Trust beneficiaries or others, and costs related to an increase in the number of shareholders, which may include increased mailing and proxy solicitation expenses. After such a distribution, the addition of the respective Trust beneficiaries to our shareholder base with full voting rights may have a significant impact on matters brought to a stockholder vote and other aspects of our corporate governance. 
  Changes in Accounting Standards Issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or Other Standard-Setting Bodies May Adversely Affect Our Financial Statements  
  Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the  FASB ). The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our reports filed with the SEC. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and official positions of the FASB are determined only after extensive due process and deliberations. Therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. The required adoption of future accounting standards could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including on our net income.  
    61 

     Table of Contents  

   Changes in Our Assumptions Regarding the Discount Rate, Expected Rate of Return, Mortality Rates and Expected Increase in Compensation Used for Our Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans May Result in Increased Expenses and Reduce Our Profitability 
  We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience. These assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, mortality rates, expected increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation. Changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. See Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on how changes in these assumptions would affect plan costs. 
  We May Not be Able to Protect Our Intellectual Property and May be Subject to Infringement Claims 
  We rely on a combination of contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. This would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. The inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete with other insurers and financial institutions. 
  In addition, we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of patent, trademark or copyright license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. Any such claims or resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. If we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. Alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly alternative. Any of these scenarios could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 
  We May Be Unable to Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our Products 
  We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Insurers compete for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. In addition, there is competition for representatives with other types of financial services firms, such as independent broker-dealers. 
  We compete with other financial services companies for sales representatives primarily on the basis of product features, support services, compensation and financial position. We continue to undertake several initiatives to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. These initiatives may not succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining highly qualified and productive agents. See  Business   Competition.   
  State Laws, Federal Laws, Our Certificate of Incorporation and Our By-Laws May Delay, Deter or Prevent Takeovers and Business Combinations that Stockholders Might Consider in Their Best Interests 
  State laws, federal laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. For instance, such restrictions may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. 
    62 

     Table of Contents  

   Any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles, including: 
             
    applicable state insurance laws and regulations may delay or impede a business combination involving us by prohibiting an entity from acquiring control (generally presumed to exist at direct or indirect ownership of 10% or more of voting stock) of an insurance company domiciled in the United States without the prior approval of the domestic insurance regulator. Many foreign jurisdictions in which we operate have similar regulatory approval requirements. 
                
    Dodd-Frank provisions that restrict or impede consolidations, mergers and acquisitions by systemically significant firms. See  Business   Regulation           U.S. Regulation   Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI   Enhanced Prudential Standards for Non-Bank SIFIs.  
                
    Provisions of the Investment Company Act that require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts. 
                
    FINRA approval requirements for a change of control of any FINRA registered broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of MetLife, Inc. 
                
    Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may affect the ability of an  interested stockholder  (the owner of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation) to engage in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an  interested stockholder.  
     In addition, MetLife, Inc. s certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests or may otherwise adversely affect prevailing market prices for MetLife, Inc. s common stock. These provisions include: a prohibition on the calling of special meetings by stockholders; and advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the Board of Directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings. MetLife, Inc. s certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and shareholder amendment of the by-laws. The Board of Directors has proposed that shareholders change these voting requirements to a majority voting standard, and anticipates that shareholders will vote on these changes at MetLife, Inc. s 2015 annual shareholder meeting. 
    Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 
  MetLife has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 
    63 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 2. Properties 
  We lease 410,000 rentable square feet in an office building in Manhattan, New York, which is occupied by all of our segments, as well as Corporate   Other. The term of that lease commenced in February 2008 and continues until April 2029. In August 2009, we subleased 32,000 rentable square feet of that space to a subtenant, which has met our standards of review with respect to creditworthiness. 
  We lease 400,000 rentable square feet in Charlotte, North Carolina, which is predominantly occupied by the Retail segment, as well as Corporate   Other. The term of that lease commenced in April 2013 and continues until September 2026. We leased an additional 30,000 rentable square feet in Charlotte, North Carolina which commenced in May 2014 and continues until December 31, 2015. We have entered into a lease agreement to occupy 425,000 rentable square feet in two buildings in Cary, North Carolina, which will be occupied by Global Technology   Operations, which supports all of our segments, as well as Corporate   Other. The lease for one building commenced in February 2015. The lease for the remaining building is anticipated to commence in April 2015, which coincides with the anticipated completion of construction of the building. The lease for both buildings will continue until April 2030.  
  We also lease space at 200 Park Avenue, which houses MetLife, Inc. s boardroom and is occupied by all of our segments and Corporate   Other. We have retained rights to existing signage and are leasing space for associates in the property for 20 years with optional renewal periods through 2205. 
  We own 14 buildings in the U.S. that we use in the operation of our business. These buildings contain 3.3 million rentable square feet and are located in the following states: Florida, Illinois, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. Our computer center in Rensselaer, New York is not owned in fee but rather is occupied pursuant to a long-term ground lease. In addition to the aforementioned leases in New York and North Carolina, we lease space in 300 other locations throughout the U.S. Including our Long Island City, New York facility, these leased facilities consist of 5.5 million rentable square feet. Of these leases, 265 are occupied as sales offices while the balance of the space is utilized for corporate functions supporting business activities. We also own 95 properties and lease close to 1,000 sites in various locations outside the U.S. We believe that these properties are suitable and adequate for our current and anticipated business operations. 
  We arrange for property   casualty coverage on our properties, taking into consideration our risk exposures and the cost and availability of commercial coverages, including deductible loss levels. In connection with the renewal of those coverages, we have arranged $500 million of property insurance, including coverage for terrorism, on our real estate portfolio through May 1, 2015, its renewal date. 
    Item 3. Legal Proceedings 
  See Note   21   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 
  Not applicable. 
    64 

       Table of Contents  

   Part II 
    Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  Issuer Common Equity 
  MetLife, Inc. s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, began trading on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) under the symbol  MET  on April 5, 2000. 
  The following table presents high and low closing prices for our common stock on the NYSE for the periods indicated: 

At February 23, 2015, there were 83,607 stockholders of record of our common stock. 
  The following table presents common stock dividend declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013: 

65 

     Table of Contents  

   The declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and will depend on MetLife, Inc. s financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. The payment of dividends and other distributions by MetLife, Inc. to its security holders may be subject to approval of the Federal Reserve as a result of MetLife, Inc. s designation as a non-bank SIFI. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI.  The payment of dividends is also subject to restrictions under the terms of our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures in the event we are experiencing financial stress. See  Risk Factors   Capital-Related Risks   Regulatory Restrictions and Uncertainty and Restrictions Under the Terms of Certain of Our Securities May Prevent Us from Repurchasing Our Stock and Paying Dividends at the Level We Wish  and Note   16   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See also  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Dividends  and Note   23   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding preferred and common stock dividends. 
  See Item 12 for information about our equity compensation plans. 
    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  Purchases of common stock made by or on behalf of MetLife, Inc. or its affiliates during the quarter ended   December 31, 2014   are set forth below: 
   
 ______________ 
           (1) 
    During the periods October 1 through October 31,   2014  , November 1 through November 30,   2014  , and December 1 through December 31,   2014  , separate account index funds purchased 0 shares, 0 shares and 2,799 shares, respectively, of common stock on the open market in nondiscretionary transactions. Except for the foregoing, there were no shares of common stock which were repurchased by MetLife, Inc. other than through a publicly announced plan or program. 
              (2) 
    On January 15, 2008, MetLife, Inc. announced that its Board of Directors authorized $1.0 billion of common stock repurchases. On April 22, 2008, MetLife, Inc. announced that its Board of Directors authorized an additional $1.0 billion of common stock repurchases. MetLife, Inc. completed purchases under the January 2008 authorization in August 2014. MetLife, Inc. commenced purchases under the April 2008 authorization in August 2014 and, at December 31,   2014  , $261 million remained unutilized under this authorization. On December 12, 2014, MetLife, Inc. announced that its Board of Directors authorized an additional $1.0 billion of common stock repurchases. MetLife, Inc. made no purchases under that authorization in 2014 and, at December 31,   2014  , an aggregate of   $1.3 billion   remained unutilized under the April 2008 and December 2014 repurchase authorizations. MetLife, Inc. completed purchases under the April 2008 authorization in January 2015, and commenced purchases under the December 2014 authorization. In 2015, through February 23, 2015, MetLife, Inc. repurchased 15,081,322 shares of its common stock in the open market for $739 million under these authorizations and, at February 23, 2015, MetLife, Inc. had $522 million remaining under the December 2014 repurchase authorization. The April 2008 and December 2014 authorizations permit MetLife, Inc. to purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of transactions meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act) and in privately negotiated transactions. Future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several factors, including our capital position, liquidity, financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions, the market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock compared to management s assessment of the stock s underlying value and applicable regulatory approvals, as well as other legal and accounting factors. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI,   Risk Factors   Capital-Related Risks   Regulatory Restrictions and Uncertainty and Restrictions Under the Terms of Certain of Our Securities May Prevent Us from Repurchasing Our Stock and Paying Dividends at the Level We Wish  and Note   16   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
     . 
    
    66 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 6. Selected Financial Data 
  The following selected financial data has been derived from the Company s audited consolidated financial statements. The statement of operations data for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , and the balance sheet data at December 31,   2014   and   2013   have been derived from the Company s audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein. The statement of operations data for the years ended December 31,   2011   and   2010  , and the balance sheet data at December 31,   2012  ,   2011   and   2010   have been derived from the Company s audited consolidated financial statements not included herein. The selected financial data set forth below should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere herein. 

67 

       Table of Contents  

_____________ 
           (1) 
    On November 1, 2010, MetLife, Inc. acquired ALICO. Results of such acquisition are reflected in the selected financial data since the acquisition date.  
              (2) 
    For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2010, all shares related to the assumed issuance of shares in settlement of the applicable purchase contracts have been excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share, as these assumed shares are anti-dilutive.  
              (3) 
    Policyholder liabilities and other policy-related balances include future policy benefits, policyholder account balances ( PABs ), other policy-related balances, policyholder dividends payable and the policyholder dividend obligation. 
              (4) 
    Return on MetLife, Inc. s common stockholders  equity is defined as net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc. s common shareholders divided by MetLife, Inc. s average common stockholders  equity. 
       68 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
  Index to Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
                   
    Page 
       Forward-Looking Statements and Other Financial Information  
    70 
       Executive Summary  
    70 
       Industry Trends  
    74 
       Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates  
    80 
       Economic Capital  
    89 
       Acquisitions and Dispositions  
    89 
       Results of Operations  
    90 
       Effects of Inflation  
    114 
       Investments  
    115 
       Derivatives  
    133 
       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  
    136 
       Insolvency Assessments  
    137 
       Policyholder Liabilities  
    137 
       Liquidity and Capital Resources  
    145 
       Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements  
    166 
       Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements  
    166 
       Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures  
    166 
       Subsequent Events  
    167 

69 

       Table of Contents  

   Forward-Looking Statements and Other Financial Information 
  For purposes of this discussion,  MetLife,  the  Company,   we,   our  and  us  refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates. Following this summary is a discussion addressing the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of the Company for the periods indicated. This discussion should be read in conjunction with  Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,   Risk Factors,   Selected Financial Data,   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  and the Company s consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein. 
  This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations may contain or incorporate by reference information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give expectations or forecasts of future events. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as  anticipate,   estimate,   expect,   project,   intend,   plan,   believe  and other words and terms of similar meaning, or are tied to future periods, in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in operations and financial results. Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. See  Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.  
  This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations includes references to our performance measures, operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders, that are not based on GAAP. Operating earnings is the measure of segment profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Consistent with GAAP guidance for segment reporting, operating earnings is our measure of segment performance. Operating earnings is also a measure by which senior management s and many other employees  performance is evaluated for the purposes of determining their compensation under applicable compensation plans. See    Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures  for definitions of these and other measures. 
    Executive Summary 
  Overview 
  MetLife is a global provider of life insurance, annuities, employee benefits and asset management. MetLife is organized into six segments, reflecting three broad geographic regions: Retail; Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits; Corporate Benefit Funding; and Latin America (collectively, the  Americas  Asia; and EMEA. In addition, the Company reports certain of its results of operations in Corporate   Other, which includes MLHL and other business activities. See  Business   Segments and Corporate   Other,     Consolidated Company Outlook  and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Company s segments and Corporate   Other. 
  During 2014, we experienced solid sales growth across all of our regions with strong sales of group life, dental and disability products, as well as new product offerings. As a result of our continued focus on pricing discipline and risk management, sales of our variable annuity products declined. During 2014, we benefited from higher investment income, driven by growth in our investment portfolio, as well as higher fee income, primarily the result of improved equity market performance. Lower investment yields were driven by the sustained low interest rate environment; however, we did benefit from a decrease in interest credited expenses. Derivative gains in 2014 were driven by changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. 
    70 

     Table of Contents  

______________ 
           (1) 
    See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses under    Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures  for the components of such adjustments. 
     Year Ended December 31,   2014   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2013 
  During the year ended December 31, 2014, income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, increased $2.9 billion over 2013. The increase was predominantly due to a favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) of $4.6 billion ($3.0 billion, net of income tax) driven by changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. This was offset by an unfavorable change in net investment gains (losses) of $358 million ($233 million, net of income tax) primarily driven by a loss on the disposition of MAL. Income (loss) from continuing operations, before provision for income tax also reflects a $262 million ($174 million, net of income tax) favorable change as a result of our annual assumption reviews related to reserves and DAC. 
  Operating earnings available to common shareholders increased $299 million over 2013. This increase reflects higher net investment income from portfolio growth, higher asset-based fee revenues and a decrease in interest credited expense, partially offset by unfavorable mortality, morbidity and claims experience, as well as the impact of decreasing investment yields on net investment income. A tax reform bill was enacted in Chile on September 29, 2014 which includes, among other things, a gradual increase in the corporate tax rate. Our Chilean businesses, including ProVida, incurred a one-time tax charge of $41 million as a result of this legislation. Excluding the impact of this tax reform, the fourth quarter 2013 acquisition of ProVida increased operating earnings available to common shareholders by $166 million, net of income tax. Our 2014 results also include: 
             
    $104 million, net of income tax, of favorable reserve adjustments related to disability premium waivers in our retail life business;  
                
    a $32 million one-time tax benefit related to the filing of the Company s U.S. federal tax return;  
                
    a $117 million, net of income tax, increase in our litigation reserve related to asbestos; 
                
    a $58 million non-tax deductible charge related to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( PPACA ), which, effective January 1, 2014, mandated that an annual fee be imposed on health insurers; 
                
    a charge of $57 million, net of income tax, related to   delayed settlement interest on unclaimed funds held by state governments in our retail life business  ; and 
                
    charges totaling $57 million, net of income tax, related to a settlement with the Department of Financial Services and the District Attorney, New York County, regarding their respective inquiries into whether American Life and DelAm conducted business in New York without a license and whether representatives acting on behalf of the companies solicited, sold or negotiated insurance products in New York without a license. 
        Our 2013 results include: 
             
    a $101 million, net of income tax, increase in our litigation reserve related to asbestos; and 
                
    a $57 million, net of income tax, reserve strengthening in Australia. 
       71 

     Table of Contents  

   Year Ended December 31,   2013   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2012 
  During the year ended December 31, 2013, income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, increased $2.1 billion over 2012. The change was predominantly due to a non-cash charge in 2012 of $1.9 billion ($1.6 billion, net of income tax) for goodwill impairment associated with our U.S. Retail annuities business. In addition, operating earnings available to common shareholders increased by $612 million and net investment gains (losses) increased by $513 million ($333 million, net of income tax) primarily due to an increase in net gains on sales of fixed maturity securities in 2013 coupled with a decrease in impairments of fixed maturity securities. These increases were partially offset by an unfavorable change in net derivatives gains (losses) of $1.3 billion ($858 million, net of income tax) driven by changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Also included in income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, were the results of divested businesses, which improved $448 million ($290 million, net of income tax) over 2012. 
  The increase in operating earnings available to common shareholders was primarily driven by higher asset-based fee revenues due to growth in our average separate account assets and an increase in net investment income due to growth in our investment portfolio. The sustained low interest rate environment negatively impacted investment yields; however, it also resulted in lower crediting rates. These favorable results were partially offset by an increase in expenses. During the fourth quarter of 2013, we increased our litigation reserve related to asbestos by $101 million, net of income tax. During 2013, we also increased our other litigation reserves by $46 million, net of income tax. The fourth quarter 2013 acquisition of ProVida in Chile increased operating earnings available to common shareholders by $48 million, net of income tax. In addition, results for 2012 included a $52 million, net of income tax, charge representing a multi-state examination payment related to unclaimed property and our use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File to identify potential life insurance claims, as well as the acceleration of benefit payments to policyholders under the settlements of such claims. 
  Consolidated Company Outlook  
  As part of an enterprise-wide strategic initiative, we announced that, by 2016, we expected to increase our operating return on common stockholders  equity ( operating ROE ), excluding accumulated other comprehensive income ( AOCI ), to the 12% to 14% range, driven by higher operating earnings. This target assumes that regulatory capital rules appropriately reflect the life insurance business model and that we have clarity on the rules in a reasonable time frame, allowing for meaningful share repurchases prior to 2016. However, due to substantially lower share repurchases, regulatory uncertainty regarding the designation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI, lower investment margins (primarily in the U.S.) as a result of the sustained low interest rate environment and the impact on our foreign operations of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, we expect to be at the lower end of the 12% to 14% range.  
  Since we announced this strategic initiative, we have continued to expand our business outside of the U.S., thereby continuing to increase our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. In order to enhance the understanding of our performance in light of such expansion, we have developed an additional method of calculating operating ROE that includes the impact of foreign currency translation adjustments ( FCTA ) in both components of the ratio (operating earnings and equity). The original method of calculating operating ROE excludes all components of AOCI, including FCTA; the new method refines the calculation by excluding AOCI other than FCTA. FCTA can have a positive or negative impact on operating ROE depending on the strength of the U.S. dollar compared to other currencies. Reflecting FCTA in both components of the ratio eliminates volatility in the ratio due to foreign currency fluctuations. 
    72 

     Table of Contents  

   We expect to achieve our operating ROE target by primarily focusing on the following: 
             
    Growth in premiums, fees and other revenues driven by: 
     -    Accelerated growth in Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits; 
  -    Increased fee revenue reflecting the benefit of higher equity markets on our separate account balances; and  
           - 
    Increases in our businesses outside of the U.S., notably accident   health, from continuing organic growth throughout our various geographic regions and leveraging of our multichannel distribution network. 
                
    Expanding our presence in emerging markets, including potential merger and acquisition activity. We expect that by 2016, 20% or more of our operating earnings will come from emerging markets, with the acquisition of ProVida contributing to this increase. However, we expect that the strengthening of the U.S. dollar and the increased earnings from the favorable U.S. equity markets could negatively impact this ratio. 
                
    Disciplined underwriting. We see no significant changes to the underlying trends that drive underwriting results; however, unanticipated catastrophes could result in a high volume of claims. 
                
    Expense management in the light of the low interest rate environment, and continued expense control throughout the Company. 
                
    Continued disciplined approach to investing and asset/liability management ( ALM ), through our enterprise risk and ALM governance process. 
     Part of this strategic initiative has been to leverage our scale to improve the value we provide to customers and shareholders and achieve $1 billion in annual efficiencies, up to $400 million of which will be reinvested in technology, platforms and functionality to improve our current operations and develop new capabilities. We also continue to balance our product mix between protection products and more capital-intensive products in order to maintain predictable operating earnings and cash flows. To this end, we introduced new variable annuity products and/or enhancements in late 2014 and early 2015. We believe that 2014 will prove to be an inflection point for annuity sales and anticipate profitable growth in 2015 and beyond. 
  Finally, effective January 1, 2015, we implemented certain segment reporting changes related to the measurement of segment operating earnings. The changes will be applied retrospectively beginning with the first quarter of 2015 and will not impact total consolidated operating earnings or net income. These changes include the following:  
             
    Revise our capital allocation methodology. We expect this to have an impact on net investment income at the segment level, as well as Corporate   Other; 
                
    Move certain tax benefits from Corporate   Other to the business segments. The impact will be almost entirely in the Retail segment; 
                
    Move our consumer direct business from Corporate   Other to the Latin America segment, which is where we report our sponsor direct business; and 
                
    Change our expense allocation. This will primarily impact Corporate   Other and the EMEA segment. 
     Other Key Information 
  Basis of Presentation 
  Certain international subsidiaries have a fiscal year cutoff of November 30   th   . Accordingly, the Company s consolidated financial statements reflect the assets and liabilities of such subsidiaries as of November 30, 2014 and 2013 and the operating results of such subsidiaries for the years ended November 30, 2014, 2013 and 2012. The Company is in the process of converting to calendar year reporting for these subsidiaries. We expect to substantially complete these conversions by 2016. The impact of the conversions on our financial statements to date has been de minimis and, therefore, has been reported in net income in the quarter of conversion. 
    73 

     Table of Contents  

   Segment Information 
  In the first quarter of 2014, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its wholly-owned subsidiary, MAL. The sale of MAL was completed in May 2014. As a result, the operations of MAL have been classified as divested business for all periods presented. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Consequently, the results for Corporate Benefit Funding decreased by $12 million, net of $8 million of income tax, and $21 million, net of $13 million of income tax, for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Also, the results for Corporate   Other decreased by $14 million, net of $7 million of income tax, and $16 million, net of $8 million of income tax, for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
  Significant Events 
  In November 2014, MICC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc., re-domesticated from Connecticut to Delaware, changed its name to MetLife Insurance Company USA and merged with its subsidiary, MLI-USA, and its affiliate, MLIIC, each a U.S. insurance company that issued variable annuity products in addition to other products, and Exeter, a former offshore, reinsurance subsidiary of MetLife, Inc. and affiliate of MICC that mainly reinsured guarantees associated with variable annuity products. The surviving entity of the Mergers was MetLife USA. The Mergers have provided increased transparency relative to our capital allocation and variable annuity risk management. In addition, the Company expects that the Mergers (i) may mitigate to some degree the impact of any restrictions on the use of captive reinsurers that could be adopted by insurance regulators by reducing our exposure to and use of captive reinsurers; and (ii) will reduce the reliance on MetLife, Inc. to fund derivatives collateral requirements. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Mergers, and see  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation   Insurance Regulatory Examinations and Other Activities  and    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Capital   Affiliated Captive Reinsurance Transactions  for information on our use of captive reinsurers. 
  In the fourth quarter of 2013, MetLife, Inc. completed its acquisition of ProVida, the largest private pension fund administrator in Chile based on assets under management and number of pension fund contributors. The acquisition of ProVida supports the Company's growth strategy in emerging markets and further strengthens the Company's overall position in Chile. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  In 2012, Superstorm Sandy made landfall in the northeastern United States causing extensive property damage. MetLife s property   casualty business  gross losses from Superstorm Sandy were approximately $150 million, before income tax. As of December 31, 2012, we recognized total net losses related to the catastrophe of $90 million, net of income tax and reinsurance recoverables and including reinstatement premiums, which impacted the Retail and Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segments. The Retail and Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segments recorded net losses related to the catastrophe of $49 million and $41 million, each net of income tax reinsurance recoverables and reinstatement premiums, respectively. We did not incur any losses related to Superstorm Sandy in 2014 or 2013.  
    Industry Trends 
  We continue to be impacted by the unstable global financial and economic environment that has been affecting the industry. 
  Financial and Economic Environment 
  Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets, particular markets, or financial asset classes can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. Global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation, all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. Disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. Upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our business through their effects on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior. While our diversified business mix and geographically diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may reduce the benefits of diversification. Financial markets have also been affected periodically by concerns over U.S. fiscal policy, although these concerns have abated since late 2013. However, unless long-term steps are taken to raise the debt ceiling and reduce the federal deficit, rating agencies have warned of the possibility of future downgrades of U.S. Treasury securities. These issues could, on their own, or combined with the possible slowing of the global economy generally, have severe repercussions to the U.S. and global credit and financial markets, further exacerbate concerns over sovereign debt of other countries and disrupt economic activity in the U.S. and elsewhere.  
    74 

     Table of Contents  

   Concerns about the economic conditions, capital markets and the solvency of certain EU member states, including Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain ( Europe s perimeter region ), and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries, have been a cause of elevated levels of market volatility. More recently, economic conditions in Europe s perimeter region seem to be stabilizing or improving, as evidenced by the stabilization of credit ratings, particularly in Spain, Portugal and Ireland. However, the election of a new government in Greece in January 2015 has renewed fears about the possibility of an exit of Greece from the Euro zone. Such an event would have uncertain impacts on interest rates and risk markets. Greater European Central Bank ( ECB ) support, stronger liquidity facilities and gradually improving macroeconomic conditions may mitigate the consequences of such exit on the rest of Europe. See    Investments   Current Environment  for information regarding our exposure to obligations of European governments and private obligors. 
  The financial markets have also been affected by concerns that other EU member states could experience similar financial troubles or that some countries could default on their obligations, have to restructure their outstanding debt, or that financial institutions with significant holdings of sovereign or private debt issued by borrowers in Europe s perimeter region could experience financial stress, any of which could have significant adverse effects on the European and global economies and on financial markets, generally. In September 2012, the ECB announced a new bond buying program, Outright Monetary Transactions ( OMT ), intended to stabilize the European financial crisis. This program involves the potential purchase by the ECB of sovereign bonds with maturities of one to three years. The OMT has not been activated to date, but the possibility of its use by the ECB helped to lower sovereign yields in Europe s perimeter region. However, in October 2014, the Court of Justice of the European Union ( ECJ ) heard arguments relating to a lawsuit challenging the legality of the OMT. On January 14, 2015, the Advocate General of the ECJ issued his opinion that the OMT is not necessarily outside of the mandate of the ECB; this opinion, however, is not binding on the ECJ. While the ECJ s decision is not expected until later in 2015, the outcome could affect the ECB s ability and willingness to purchase sovereign bonds and strain economic stability in Europe. 
  In the second half of 2014, the ECB cut interest rates further, imposing a negative rate on bank deposits, and announcing additional accommodative monetary policy measures in an effort to lessen the risk of deflation in the Euro zone. These measures included incentivizing banks to extend loans and, in November 2014, buying private sector asset-backed securities and covered bonds. At its meeting on January 22, 2015, the ECB expanded its current asset purchase program to  60 billion per month in bond purchases commencing in March 2015 through September 2016. These initiatives are intended to counter the threat of deflation, lower borrowing costs in the Euro zone, encourage corporations to issue more asset-backed securities and place pressure on the euro/U.S. dollar exchange rate. Economic growth in the Euro zone continues to be weak, with concerns over low inflation becoming more pronounced as countries in Europe s perimeter region in particular continue to pursue policies to reduce their relative cost of production and reduce macroeconomic imbalances. In addition, concerns about the political and economic stability of countries in regions outside the EU, including Ukraine, Russia, Argentina and the Middle East, have contributed to global market volatility. See  Risk Factors   Economic Environment and Capital Markets-Related Risks   We Are Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risks Which May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Liquidity, and May Cause Our Net Investment Income to Vary from Period to Period,  and  Risk Factors   Economic Environment and Capital Markets-Related Risks   If Difficult Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally Persist, They May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations.  See also    Investments   Current Environment   Selected Country and Sector Investments  for information regarding our investments in Ukraine, Russia, and Argentina. 
    75 

     Table of Contents  

   We face substantial exposure to the Japanese economy given our operations there. Despite some recovery in GDP growth and rising inflation in the first half of 2014, momentum has slowed. Meanwhile, structural weaknesses and debt sustainability have yet to be addressed effectively, which leaves the economy vulnerable to further disruption. Going forward, Japan s structural and demographic challenges may continue to limit its potential growth unless reforms that boost productivity are put into place. Japan s high public sector debt levels are mitigated by low refinancing risks and its nominal yields on government debt have remained at a lower level than that of any other developed country. However, frequent changes in government have prevented policy makers from implementing fiscal reform measures to put public finances on a sustainable path. In January 2013, the government and the Bank of Japan pledged to strengthen policy coordination to end deflation and to achieve sustainable economic growth. This was followed by the announcement of a supplementary budget stimulus program totaling 2% of GDP and the adoption of a 2% inflation target by the Bank of Japan. In early April 2013, the Bank of Japan announced a new round of monetary easing measures including increased government bond purchases at longer maturities. In October 2013, the government agreed to raise the consumption tax from 5% to 8% effective April 1, 2014. This contributed to a decrease in the growth rate of the economy to a recessionary level, causing the government to delay a planned increase in the consumption tax to 10% until 2017. On October 31, 2014, the Bank of Japan announced a program to purchase larger quantities of government bonds. Such purchases are intended to keep borrowing costs low and the yen weak thereby supporting economic growth. Despite continued weakness in the yen, inflation is not expected to rise materially given still weak GDP growth. Japan s public debt trajectory could continue to rise until a strategy to consolidate public finances and growth-enhancing reforms are implemented. On December 30, 2014, the government of Japan proposed a tax reform plan that, if enacted, would lower the Japanese tax rate by approximately 2% effective April 1, 2015. If the tax reform plan is enacted in its current form, we expect to reflect the effects of the rate reduction, currently estimated as $170 to $180 million, in our financial results in the period of enactment, most likely the second quarter of 2015. In addition, we expect this tax law change will favorably affect our estimated annual effective tax rate for 2015 by approximately 0.2% as compared to 2014. 
  Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment 
  As a global insurance company, we are affected by the monetary policy of central banks around the world, as well as the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve Board in the United States. While the Federal Reserve Board has taken a number of actions in recent years to spur economic activity by keeping interest rates low, the Federal Reserve Board may reverse this policy and begin raising rates sometime over the next two years, at a pace which may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, and may adversely impact the level of product sales. 
  On October 29, 2014, the Federal Reserve Board s Federal Open Market Committee ( FOMC ), citing sufficient underlying strength in the economy to support progress toward maximum employment and the substantial improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions since the inception of its asset purchase program, decided to conclude the program. Most recently, on January 28, 2015, the FOMC reaffirmed that it anticipates keeping the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 0.25%, subject to labor market conditions and inflation indicators and expectations. The possibility of the Federal Reserve Board increasing the federal funds rate in the future may affect interest rates and risk markets in the U.S. and other developed and emerging economies. However, the timing of any increases of the federal funds rate by the Federal Reserve Board is uncertain and subject to change depending on the Federal Reserve Board s assessment of economic growth, inflation and other risks.  
  Despite the end of the Federal Reserve Board s quantitative easing program and the potential for future raises in interest rates in the U.S., central banks in other parts of the world, including the ECB and the Bank of Japan, have pursued accommodative monetary policies. See    Financial and Economic Environment.  However, we cannot predict with certainty the effect of these programs and policies on interest rates or the impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments at this time. See    Investments   Current Environment.  
  In periods of declining interest rates, we may have to invest insurance cash flows and reinvest the cash flows we received as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower yielding instruments. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities, commercial, agricultural or residential mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates. Therefore, some of our products expose us to the risk that a reduction in interest rates will reduce the difference between the amounts that we are required to credit on contracts in our general account and the rate of return we are able to earn on investments intended to support obligations under these contracts. This difference between interest earned and interest credited, or margin, is a key metric for the management of, and reporting for, many of our businesses. 
  Our expectations regarding future margins are an important component impacting the amortization of certain intangible assets such as DAC and VOBA. Significantly lower margins may cause us to accelerate the amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. Additionally, lower margins may also impact the recoverability of intangible assets such as goodwill, require the establishment of additional liabilities or trigger loss recognition events on certain policyholder liabilities. We review this long-term margin assumption, along with other assumptions, as part of our annual assumption review.  
    76 

     Table of Contents  

   Mitigating Actions 
  The Company continues to be proactive in its investment and interest crediting rate strategies, as well as its product design and product mix. To mitigate the risk of unfavorable consequences from the low interest rate environment in the U.S., the Company applies disciplined ALM strategies, including the use of derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps, floors and swaptions. A significant portion of these derivatives were entered into prior to the onset of the current low U.S. interest rate environment. In some cases, the Company has entered into offsetting positions as part of its overall ALM strategy and to reduce volatility in net income. Lowering interest crediting rates on some products, or adjusting the dividend scale on traditional products, can help offset decreases in investment margins on some products. Our ability to lower interest crediting rates could be limited by competition, requirements to obtain regulatory approval, or contractual guarantees of minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. As a result, our margins could decrease or potentially become negative. We are able to limit or close certain products to new sales in order to manage exposures. Business actions, such as shifting the sales focus to less interest rate sensitive products, can also mitigate this risk. In addition, the Company is well diversified across product, distribution, and geography. Certain of our non-U.S. businesses, reported within our Latin America and EMEA segments, which accounted for approximately 16% of our operating earnings in 2014, are not significantly interest rate or market sensitive; in particular, they do not have any direct sensitivity to U.S. interest rates. The Company s primary exposure within these segments is insurance risk. We expect our non-U.S. businesses to grow faster than our U.S. businesses and, over time, to become a larger percentage of our total business. As a result of the foregoing, the Company expects to be able to substantially mitigate the negative impact of a sustained low interest rate environment in the U.S. on the Company s profitability. Based on a near to intermediate term analysis of a sustained lower interest rate environment in the U.S., the Company anticipates operating earnings will continue to increase, although at a slower growth rate.  
  Interest Rate Stress Scenario 
  The following summarizes the impact of a hypothetical interest rate stress scenario on our operating earnings and the mark-to-market of our derivative positions that do not qualify as accounting hedges assuming a continued low interest rate environment in the U.S. 
  The hypothetical interest rate stress scenario is based on a constant set of U.S. interest rates and credit spreads in the U.S., as compared to our business plan interest rates and credit spreads, which are based on consensus interest rate view and credit spreads as of December 2014. For example, our business plan assumes a 10-year U.S. treasury rate of 2.17% at December 31,   2014   to rise during   2015   to 2.80% by December 31,   2015   and rise to 3.52% by December 31,   2016  . The hypothetical interest rate stress scenario assumes the 10-year treasury rate to be 2.00% at December 31, 2014 and remain constant at that level until December 31, 2016. We make similar assumptions for interest rates at other maturities, and hold this interest rate curve constant through December 31,   2016  . In addition, in the interest rate stress scenario, we assume credit spreads remain constant from December   2014   through the end of   2016  , as compared to our business plan which assumes rising credit spreads through   2015   and thereafter remaining constant through the end of   2016  . Further, we also include the impact of low interest rates on our pension and postretirement plan expenses. We allocate this impact across our segments and it is included in the segment discussion below. The discount rate used to value these plans is tied to high quality corporate bond yields. Accordingly, an extended low interest rate environment will result in increased pension and other postretirement benefit liabilities and expenses. Higher total return on the fixed income portfolio of pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets will partially offset this increase in pension and other postretirement plan liabilities. 
  Based on the above assumptions, we estimate an unfavorable impact on our consolidated operating earnings from the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario of approximately $5 million in each of   2015   and   2016  . 
  In addition to its impact on operating earnings, we estimated the effect of the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario on the mark-to-market of our derivative positions that do not qualify as accounting hedges. We applied the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario to these derivatives and compared the impact to that from interest rates in our business plan. We hold a significant position in long duration receive-fixed interest rate swaps to hedge reinvestment risk. These swaps are most sensitive to the 30-year and 10-year swap rates and we recognize gains as rates drop and recognize losses as rates rise. This estimated impact on the derivative mark-to-market does not include that of our VA program derivatives as the impact of low interest rates in the freestanding derivatives would be largely offset by the mark-to-market in net derivative gains (losses) for the related embedded derivative. See    Results of Operations   Consolidated Results  for discussions on our net derivative gains and losses. 
  Based on these additional assumptions, we estimate the impact of the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario on the mark-to-market of our derivative positions that do not qualify as accounting hedges to be an increase in net income of $425 million and $300 million in   2015   and   2016  , respectively. 
    77 

     Table of Contents  

   Segments and Corporate   Other 
  The following discussion summarizes the impact of the above hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario on the operating earnings of our segments, as well as Corporate   Other. See also    Policyholder Liabilities   Policyholder Account Balances  for information regarding the account values subject to minimum guaranteed crediting rates. 
  Retail 
  Life   Other   Our interest rate sensitive products include traditional life, universal life, and retained asset accounts. Because the majority of our traditional life insurance business is participating, we can largely offset lower investment returns on assets backing our traditional life products through adjustments to the applicable dividend scale. In our universal life products, we manage interest rate risk through a combination of product design features and ALM strategies, including the use of hedges such as interest rate swaps and floors. While we have the ability to lower crediting rates on certain in-force universal life policies to mitigate margin compression, such actions would be partially offset by increases in our liabilities related to policies with secondary guarantees. Our retained asset accounts have minimum interest crediting rate guarantees which range from 0.5% to 4.0%, all of which are currently at their respective minimum interest crediting rates. While we expect to experience margin compression as we re-invest at lower rates, the interest rate derivatives held in this portfolio will partially mitigate this risk. 
  Annuities   The impact on operating earnings from margin compression is concentrated in our deferred annuities where there are minimum interest rate guarantees. Under low U.S. interest rate scenarios, we assume that a larger percentage of customers will maintain their funds with us to take advantage of the attractive minimum guaranteed crediting rates and we expect to experience margin compression as we reinvest cash flows at lower interest rates. Partially offsetting this margin compression, we assume we will lower crediting rates on contractual reset dates for the portion of business that is not currently at minimum crediting rates. Additionally, we have various derivative positions, primarily interest rate floors, to partially mitigate this risk.  
   Reinvestment risk is defined for this purpose as the amount of reinvestment in   2015   and   2016   that would impact operating earnings due to reinvesting cash flows in the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario. For the deferred annuities business, $2.8 billion and $2.6 billion in   2015   and   2016  , respectively, of the asset base will be subject to reinvestment risk on an average asset base of $35.3 billion and $36.0 billion in   2015   and   2016  , respectively. 
  We estimate an unfavorable operating earnings impact on our Retail segment from the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario discussed above of $5 million and $15 million in   2015   and   2016  , respectively. 
  Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits 
  Group   In general, most of our group life insurance products in this segment are renewable term insurance and, therefore, have significant repricing flexibility. Interest rate risk arises mainly from minimum interest rate guarantees on retained asset accounts. These accounts have minimum interest crediting rate guarantees which range from 0.5% to 3.0%. All of these account balances are currently at their respective minimum interest crediting rates and we would expect to experience margin compression as we reinvest at lower interest rates. We have used interest rate floors to partially mitigate the risks of a sustained U.S. low interest rate environment. We also have exposure to interest rate risk in this business arising from our group disability policy claim reserves. For these products, lower reinvestment rates cannot be offset by a reduction in liability crediting rates for established claim reserves. Group disability policies are generally renewable term policies. Rates may be adjusted on in-force policies at renewal based on the retrospective experience rating and current interest rate assumptions. We review the discount rate assumptions and other assumptions associated with our long-term disability claim reserves no less frequently than annually. Our most recent review at the end of 2014 resulted in no change to the applicable discount rates. 
  Voluntary   Worksite   We have exposure to interest rate risk in this business arising mainly from our LTC policy reserves. For these products, lower reinvestment rates cannot be offset by a reduction in liability crediting rates for established claim reserves. LTC policies are guaranteed renewable, and rates may be adjusted on a class basis with regulatory approval to reflect emerging experience. Our LTC block is closed to new business. The Company makes use of derivative instruments to more closely match asset and liability duration and immunize the portfolio against changes in interest rates. Reinvestment risk is defined for this purpose as the amount of reinvestment in   2015   and   2016   that would impact operating earnings due to reinvesting cash flows in the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario. For the LTC portfolio, $1.9 billion of the asset base in both   2015   and   2016   will be subject to reinvestment risk on an average asset base of $9.8 billion and $10.5 billion in   2015   and   2016  , respectively. 
    78 

     Table of Contents  

   We estimate a favorable operating earnings impact on our Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segment from the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario discussed above of $5 million and $25 million in   2015   and   2016  , respectively. 
  Corporate Benefit Funding 
  This segment contains both short and long duration products consisting of capital market products, pension closeouts, structured settlements, and other benefit funding products. The majority of short duration products are managed on a floating rate basis, which mitigates the impact of the low interest rate environment in the U.S. The long duration products have very predictable cash flows and we have matched these cash flows through our ALM strategies. We also use interest rate swaps to help protect income in this segment against a low interest rate environment in the U.S. Based on the cash flow estimates, only a small component is subject to reinvestment risk. Reinvestment risk is defined for this purpose as the amount of reinvestment in   2015   and   2016   that would impact operating earnings due to reinvesting cash flows in the hypothetical interest rate stress scenario. For the long duration business, none of the asset base in   2015   will be subject to reinvestment risk on an average asset base of $58.6 billion. In   2016  , $1 billion of the asset base will be subject to reinvestment risk on an average asset base of $60.6 billion. 
  We estimate a favorable operating earnings impact on our Corporate Benefit Funding segment from the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario discussed above of $25 million and $80 million in   2015   and   2016  , respectively. 
  Asia 
  Our Asia segment has a portion of its investments in U.S. dollar denominated assets. The following describes the impact on our Asia segment s operating earnings under the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario. 
  Life   Other   Our Japan business offers traditional life insurance and accident   health products. To the extent the Japan life insurance portfolio is U.S. interest rate sensitive and we are unable to lower crediting rates to the customer, operating earnings will decline. We manage interest rate risk on our life products through a combination of product design features and ALM strategies. 
  Annuities   We sell annuities in Asia which are predominantly single premium products with crediting rates set at the time of issue. This allows us to tightly manage product ALM, cash flows and net spreads, thus maintaining profitability. 
  We estimate an unfavorable operating earnings impact on our Asia segment from the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario discussed above of $10 million and $25 million in   2015   and   2016  , respectively. 
  Corporate   Other 
  Corporate   Other contains the surplus portfolios for the enterprise, the portfolios used to fund the capital needs of the Company and various reinsurance agreements. The surplus portfolios are subject to reinvestment risk; however, lower net investment income is significantly offset by lower interest expense on both fixed and variable rate debt. Under a lower interest rate environment, fixed rate debt is assumed to be either paid off when it matures or refinanced at a lower interest rate resulting in lower overall interest expense. Variable rate debt is indexed to the three-month LIBOR, which results in lower interest expense incurred. 
  We estimate an unfavorable operating earnings impact on Corporate   Other from the hypothetical U.S. interest rate stress scenario discussed above of $20 million and $70 million in   2015   and   2016  , respectively. 
  Competitive Pressures 
  The life insurance industry remains highly competitive. The product development and product life cycles have shortened in many product segments, leading to more intense competition with respect to product features. Larger companies have the ability to invest in brand equity, product development, technology and risk management, which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth in the life insurance industry. In addition, several of the industry s products can be quite homogeneous and subject to intense price competition. Sufficient scale, financial strength and financial flexibility are becoming prerequisites for sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. Larger market participants tend to have the capacity to invest in additional distribution capability and the information technology needed to offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly sophisticated industry client base. We believe that the continued volatility of the financial markets, its impact on the capital position of many competitors, and subsequent actions by regulators and rating agencies have altered the competitive environment. In particular, we believe that these factors have highlighted financial strength as the most significant differentiator from the perspective of some customers and certain distributors. We believe the Company is well positioned to compete in this environment. 
    79 

     Table of Contents  

   Regulatory Developments 
  The U.S. life insurance industry is regulated primarily at the state level, with some products and services also subject to federal regulation. As life insurers introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for the life insurance industry. Regulations recently adopted or currently under review can potentially impact the statutory reserve and capital requirements of the industry. In addition, regulators have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several markets or products, including equity-indexed annuities, variable annuities and group products, as well as reviews of the utilization of affiliated captive reinsurers and offshore entities to reinsure insurance risks. 
  The regulation of the global financial services industry has received renewed scrutiny as a result of the disruptions in the financial markets. Significant regulatory reforms have been recently adopted and additional reforms proposed, and these or other reforms could be implemented. See  Business   Regulation,   Risk Factors   Regulatory and Legal Risks   Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth,   Risk Factors   Risks Related to Our Business   Our Statutory Life Insurance Reserve Financings May Be Subject to Cost Increases and New Financings May Be Subject to Limited Market Capacity,  and  Risk Factors   Regulatory and Legal Risks   Changes in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations, and State Insurance Regulations Regarding Suitability of Annuity Product Sales, May Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability.  For example, Dodd-Frank, which was signed by President Obama in July 2010, effected the most far-reaching overhaul of financial regulation in the U.S. in decades. The full impact of Dodd-Frank on us will depend on the numerous rulemaking initiatives required or permitted by Dodd-Frank which are in various stages of implementation, many of which are not likely to be completed for some time. 
  Mortgage and Foreclosure-Related Exposures  
  MetLife no longer engages in the origination, sale and servicing of forward and reverse residential mortgage loans. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company s exit from MetLife Bank businesses and Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our mortgage and foreclosure-related exposures. 
  Notwithstanding MetLife Bank s exit from the origination and servicing businesses, MLHL remains obligated to repurchase loans or compensate for losses upon demand due to alleged defects by MetLife Bank or its predecessor servicers in past servicing of the loans and material representations made in connection with MetLife Bank s sale of the loans.     Reserves for representation and warranty repurchases and indemnifications were $85 million and $104 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Reserves for estimated future losses due to alleged deficiencies on loans originated and sold, as well as servicing of the loans including servicing acquired, are estimated based on unresolved claims and projected losses under investor servicing contracts where MetLife Bank s past actions or inactions are likely to result in missing certain stipulated investor timelines. Reserves for servicing defects were $38 million and $46 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Management is satisfied that adequate provision has been made in the Company s consolidated financial statements for those representation and warranty obligations that are currently probable and reasonably estimable. 
    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates 
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion of our significant accounting policies, see Note   1   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The most critical estimates include those used in determining: 
           (i) 
    liabilities for future policy benefits and the accounting for reinsurance; 
              (ii) 
    capitalization and amortization of DAC and the establishment and amortization of VOBA; 
              (iii) 
    estimated fair values of investments in the absence of quoted market values; 
              (iv) 
    investment impairments; 
              (v) 
    estimated fair values of freestanding derivatives and the recognition and estimated fair value of embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation; 
              (vi) 
    measurement of goodwill and related impairment; 
              (vii) 
    measurement of employee benefit plan liabilities; 
              (viii) 
    measurement of income taxes and the valuation of deferred tax assets; and 
              (ix) 
    liabilities for litigation and regulatory matters. 
       80 

     Table of Contents  

   In addition, the application of acquisition accounting requires the use of estimation techniques in determining the estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed   the most significant of which relate to aforementioned critical accounting estimates. In applying our accounting policies, we make subjective and complex judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to our business and operations. Actual results could differ from these estimates. 
  Liability for Future Policy Benefits 
  Generally, future policy benefits are payable over an extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of future expected benefits to be paid, reduced by the present value of future expected premiums. Such liabilities are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, disability incidence, disability terminations, investment returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type and geographical area. These assumptions are established at the time the policy is issued and are intended to estimate the experience for the period the policy benefits are payable. Utilizing these assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of business basis. If experience is less favorable than assumed, additional liabilities may be established, resulting in a charge to policyholder benefits and claims. 
  Future policy benefit liabilities for disabled lives are estimated using the present value of benefits method and experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and interest. 
  Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon our historical experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation. 
  Future policy benefit liabilities for minimum death and income benefit guarantees relating to certain annuity contracts are based on estimates of the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account balance, recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. Liabilities for ULSG and paid-up guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The assumptions used in estimating the secondary and paid-up guarantee liabilities are consistent with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability and risk. The assumptions of investment performance and volatility for variable products are consistent with historical experience of the appropriate underlying equity index, such as the S P 500 Index. 
  We regularly review our estimates of liabilities for future policy benefits and compare them with our actual experience. Differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in pricing these policies and guarantees, as well as in the establishment of the related liabilities, result in variances in profit and could result in losses. 
  See Note   4   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our liability for future policy benefits. 
  Reinsurance 
  Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks. We periodically review actual and anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluate the financial strength of counterparties to our reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in our security impairment process. See    Investment Impairments.  Additionally, for each of our reinsurance agreements, we determine whether the agreement provides indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk, in accordance with applicable accounting standards. We review all contractual features, including those that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims. If we determine that a reinsurance agreement does not expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance risk, we record the agreement using the deposit method of accounting. 
  See Note   6   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our reinsurance programs. 
    81 

     Table of Contents  

   Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired 
  We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that relate directly to the successful acquisition or renewal of insurance contracts are deferred as DAC. In addition to commissions, certain direct-response advertising expenses and other direct costs, deferrable costs include the portion of an employee s total compensation and benefits related to time spent selling, underwriting or processing the issuance of new and renewal insurance business only with respect to actual policies acquired or renewed. We utilize various techniques to estimate the portion of an employee s time spent on qualifying acquisition activities that result in actual sales, including surveys, interviews, representative time studies and other methods. These estimates include assumptions that are reviewed and updated on a periodic basis or more frequently to reflect significant changes in processes or distribution methods. 
  VOBA represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in force at the acquisition date. For certain acquired blocks of business, the estimated fair value of the in-force contract obligations exceeded the book value of assumed in-force insurance policy liabilities, resulting in negative VOBA, which is presented separately from VOBA as an additional insurance liability included in other policy-related balances. The estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased business may vary from these projections. The recovery of DAC and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. 
  Separate account rates of return on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect in-force account balances on such contracts each reporting period, which can result in significant fluctuations in amortization of DAC and VOBA. Our practice to determine the impact of gross profits resulting from returns on separate accounts assumes that long-term appreciation in equity markets is not changed by short-term market fluctuations, but is only changed when sustained interim deviations are expected. We monitor these events and only change the assumption when our long-term expectation changes. The effect of an increase (decrease) by 100 basis points in the assumed future rate of return is reasonably likely to result in a decrease (increase) in the DAC and VOBA amortization of approximately $198 million, with an offset to our unearned revenue liability of approximately $22 million for this factor. We use a mean reversion approach to separate account returns where the mean reversion period is five years with a long-term separate account return after the five-year reversion period is over. The current long-term rate of return assumption for the variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts is 7.25%. 
  We also periodically review other long-term assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross margins and profits. These assumptions primarily relate to investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates, mortality, persistency, and expenses to administer business. Assumptions used in the calculation of estimated gross margins and profits which may have significantly changed are updated annually. If the update of assumptions causes expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the assumption update causes expected future gross margins and profits to decrease. 
  Our most significant assumption updates resulting in a change to expected future gross margins and profits and the amortization of DAC and VOBA are due to revisions to expected future investment returns, expenses, in-force or persistency assumptions and policyholder dividends on participating traditional life contracts, variable and universal life contracts and annuity contracts. We expect these assumptions to be the ones most reasonably likely to cause significant changes in the future. Changes in these assumptions can be offsetting and we are unable to predict their movement or offsetting impact over time. 
  At December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , DAC and VOBA for the Company was $24.4 billion, $26.7 billion and $24.8 billion, respectively. Amortization of DAC and VOBA associated with the variable and universal life and the annuity contracts was significantly impacted by movements in equity markets. The following illustrates the effect on DAC and VOBA of changing each of the respective assumptions, as well as updating estimated gross margins or profits with actual gross margins or profits during the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  . Increases (decreases) in DAC and VOBA balances, as presented below, resulted in a corresponding decrease (increase) in amortization. 
    82 

     Table of Contents  

The following represent significant items contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2014: 
             
    The increase in equity markets during the year increased separate account balances, which led to higher actual and expected future gross profits on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts resulting in a decrease of $43 million in DAC and VOBA amortization. 
        Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization. 
              
    Actual gross profits decreased as a result of an increase in liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable annuities, resulting in a decrease of DAC and VOBA amortization of $118 million, excluding the impact from our nonperformance risk and risk margins, which are described below. This decrease in actual gross profits was more than offset by freestanding derivative gains associated with the hedging of such guarantee obligations, which resulted in an increase in DAC and VOBA amortization of $219 million  . 
                
    The widening of the Company s nonperformance risk adjustment decreased the valuation of guaranteed liabilities, increased actual gross profits and increased DAC and VOBA amortization by $44 million. This was more than offset by the higher risk margins, which increased the guarantee liability valuations, decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $53 million  . 
                
    The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses), which decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $50 million, was primarily attributable to 2014 investment activities. 
                
    The change in current and future projected guaranteed minimum income benefits ( GMIBs ) liability resulted in an increase to DAC amortization of $63 million  .    
                
    Better than expected persistency and changes in assumptions regarding persistency caused an increase in actual and expected future gross profits resulting in a net decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization of $94 million. 
       83 

     Table of Contents  

   The following represent significant items contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2013: 
             
    The increase in equity markets during the year increased separate account balances, which led to higher actual and expected future gross profits on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts resulting in a decrease of $157 million in DAC and VOBA amortization. 
                
    Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization: 
                 
    Actual gross profits increased as a result of a decrease in liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable annuities, resulting in an increase of DAC and VOBA amortization of $1.1 billion, excluding the impact from our nonperformance risk and risk margins, which are described below. This increase in actual gross profits was more than offset by freestanding derivative losses associated with the hedging of such guarantee obligations, which resulted in a decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization of $1.2 billion. 
                 
    The tightening of our nonperformance risk adjustment increased the valuation of guarantee liabilities, decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $94 million. This was partially offset by lower risk margins, which decreased the guarantee liability valuations, increased actual gross profits and increased DAC and VOBA amortization by $60 million. 
                
    The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses), which decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $72 million, was primarily attributable to 2013 investment activities.  
                
    The hedging and reinsurance losses associated with the insurance liabilities of the GMIBs decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by $349 million.  
     The following represent significant items contributing to the changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2012: 
             
    The increase in actual, as well as changes in projected, investment returns resulted in an increase in actual and a reduction in expected future gross profits on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts resulting in an increase of $161 million in DAC and VOBA amortization. 
                
    Better than expected persistency and changes in assumptions regarding persistency, especially in the U.S. deferred variable annuity contracts, resulted in an increase in actual and expected future gross profits resulting in a decrease of $368 million in DAC and VOBA amortization. 
     Our DAC and VOBA balance is also impacted by unrealized investment gains (losses) and the amount of amortization which would have been recognized if such gains and losses had been realized. The increase in unrealized investment gains (losses) decreased the DAC and VOBA balance by $702 million in 2014, while the change in unrealized investment gains increased the DAC and VOBA balance by $1.3 billion and decreased the DAC and VOBA balance by $713 million in   2013   and   2012  , respectively. See Notes   5   and   8   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the DAC and VOBA offset to unrealized investment losses. 
  Estimated Fair Value of Investments 
  In determining the estimated fair value of our investments, fair values are based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical investments in active markets that are readily and regularly obtainable. When such quoted prices are not available, fair values are based on quoted prices in markets that are not active, quoted prices for similar but not identical investments, or other observable inputs. If these inputs are not available, or observable inputs are not determinable, unobservable inputs and/or adjustments to observable inputs requiring management judgment are used to determine the estimated fair value of investments. 
  The methodologies, assumptions and inputs utilized are described in Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Our ability to sell investments, or the price ultimately realized for investments, depends upon the demand and liquidity in the market and increases the use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of certain investments. 
    84 

     Table of Contents  

   Investment Impairments 
  One of the significant estimates related to AFS securities is our impairment evaluation. The assessment of whether an other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ) occurred is based on our case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in estimated fair value on a security-by-security basis. Our review of each fixed maturity and equity security for OTTI includes an analysis of gross unrealized losses by three categories of severity and/or age of gross unrealized loss. An extended and severe unrealized loss position on a fixed maturity security may not have any impact on the ability of the issuer to service all scheduled interest and principal payments. Accordingly, such an unrealized loss position may not impact our evaluation of recoverability of all contractual cash flows or the ability to recover an amount at least equal to its amortized cost based on the present value of the expected future cash flows to be collected. In contrast, for certain equity securities, greater weight and consideration are given to a decline in estimated fair value and the likelihood such estimated fair value decline will recover. 
  Additionally, we consider a wide range of factors about the security issuer and use our best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent in our evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Factors we consider in the OTTI evaluation process are described in Note   8   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments on the remaining invested asset classes is highly subjective and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. 
  See Notes 1 and   8   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information relating to our determination of the amount of allowances and impairments. 
  Derivatives 
  The determination of estimated fair value of freestanding derivatives, when quoted market values are not available, is based on market standard valuation methodologies and inputs that management believes are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing the instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, default risk, nonperformance risk, volatility, liquidity and changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models. See Note   10   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on significant inputs into the OTC derivative pricing models and credit risk adjustment. 
  We issue variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits, some of which are embedded derivatives measured at estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity product, with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses). The estimated fair values of these embedded derivatives are determined based on the present value of projected future benefits minus the present value of projected future fees. The projections of future benefits and future fees require capital market and actuarial assumptions, including expectations concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral valuation methodology is used under which the cash flows from the guarantees are projected under multiple capital market scenarios using observable risk-free rates. The valuation of these embedded derivatives also includes an adjustment for our nonperformance risk and risk margins for non-capital market inputs. The nonperformance risk adjustment, which is captured as a spread over the risk-free rate in determining the discount rate to discount the cash flows of the liability, is determined by taking into consideration publicly available information relating to spreads in the secondary market for MetLife, Inc. s debt, including related credit default swaps. These observable spreads are then adjusted, as necessary, to reflect the priority of these liabilities and the claims paying ability of the issuing insurance subsidiaries compared to MetLife, Inc. Risk margins are established to capture the non-capital market risks of the instrument which represent the additional compensation a market participant would require to assume the risks related to the uncertainties in certain actuarial assumptions. The establishment of risk margins requires the use of significant management judgment, including assumptions of the amount and cost of capital needed to cover the guarantees. 
  The table below illustrates the impact that a range of reasonably likely variances in credit spreads would have on our consolidated balance sheet, excluding the effect of income tax, related to the embedded derivative valuation on certain variable annuity products measured at estimated fair value. However, these estimated effects do not take into account potential changes in other variables, such as equity price levels and market volatility, which can also contribute significantly to changes in carrying values. Therefore, the table does not necessarily reflect the ultimate impact on the consolidated financial statement under the credit spread variance scenarios presented below. 
  In determining the ranges, we have considered current market conditions, as well as the market level of spreads that can reasonably be anticipated over the near term. The ranges do not reflect extreme market conditions experienced during the financial crisis as we do not consider those to be reasonably likely events in the near future. 
    85 

     Table of Contents  

_______________ 
  (1) Results in less than a $1 million impact to policyholder account balances. 
  The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of accounting standards continue to evolve in practice. If it is determined that hedge accounting designations were not appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially affected. Assessments of hedge effectiveness and measurements of ineffectiveness of hedging relationships are also subject to interpretations and estimations and different interpretations or estimates may have a material effect on the amount reported in net income. 
  Variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining equity markets. Market conditions including, but not limited to, changes in interest rates, equity indices, market volatility and foreign currency exchange rates, changes in our nonperformance risk, variations in actuarial assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, mortality and risk margins related to non-capital market inputs, may result in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the guarantees that could materially affect net income. If interpretations change, there is a risk that features previously not bifurcated may require bifurcation and reporting at estimated fair value in the consolidated financial statements and respective changes in estimated fair value could materially affect net income. 
  Additionally, we ceded the risk associated with certain of the variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits described in the preceding paragraphs. The value of the embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is determined using a methodology consistent with that described previously for the guarantees directly written by us with the exception of the input for nonperformance risk that reflects the credit of the reinsurer. Because certain of the direct guarantees do not meet the definition of an embedded derivative and, thus are not accounted for at fair value, significant fluctuations in net income may occur since the change in fair value of the embedded derivative on the ceded risk is being recorded in net income without a corresponding and offsetting change in fair value of the direct guarantee. 
  See Note   9   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivatives and hedging programs. 
  Goodwill 
  Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test. 
  For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is compared to the carrying value of that goodwill to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. In such instances, the implied fair value of the goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be determined in a business acquisition. The Company tests goodwill for impairment by either performing a qualitative assessment or a two-step quantitative test. The qualitative assessment is an assessment of historical information and relevant events and circumstances to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. The Company may elect not to perform the qualitative assessment for some or all of its reporting units and instead perform a two-step quantitative impairment test. In performing the two-step quantitative impairment test, the Company may use a market multiple valuation approach and a discounted cash flow valuation approach. For reporting units which are particularly sensitive to market assumptions, the Company may use additional valuation methodologies to estimate the reporting units  fair values. The key inputs, judgments and assumptions necessary in determining estimated fair value of the reporting units include projected operating earnings, current book value, the level of economic capital required to support the mix of business, long-term growth rates, comparative market multiples, the account value of in-force business, projections of new and renewal business, as well as margins on such business, the level of interest rates, credit spreads, equity market levels, and the discount rate that we believe is appropriate for the respective reporting unit. 
    86 

     Table of Contents  

   Effective January 1, 2015, the Company implemented certain segment reporting changes, which were approved by the chief operating decision maker in the fourth quarter of 2014. As a result, goodwill was re-tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of 2014 using estimated revised carrying amounts of the reporting units. The Company concluded that the fair values of all reporting units were in excess of their carrying value and, therefore, goodwill was not impaired. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  During the 2014 and 2013 annual goodwill impairment tests, we concluded that the fair values of all reporting units were in excess of their carrying values and, therefore, goodwill was not impaired. 
  In 2012, we performed the annual goodwill impairment test on our Retail Annuities reporting unit using both the market multiple and discounted cash flow valuation approaches. Results for both approaches indicated that the fair value of the Retail Annuities reporting unit was below its carrying value. As a result, an actuarial appraisal, which estimates the net worth of the reporting unit, the value of existing business and the value of new business, was performed. This appraisal resulted in a fair value of the Retail Annuities reporting unit that was less than the carrying value, indicating a potential for goodwill impairment. The actuarial appraisal reflected the expected market impact to a buyer of changes in the regulatory environment, continued low interest rates for an extended period of time, and other market and economic factors. We performed Step 2 of the goodwill impairment process, which compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill with its carrying value. This analysis indicated that the recorded goodwill associated with this reporting unit was not recoverable. Therefore, we recorded a non-cash charge of $1.9 billion ($1.6 billion, net of income tax) for the impairment of the entire goodwill balance that is reported in goodwill impairment in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2012.  
  We apply significant judgment when determining the estimated fair value of our reporting units and when assessing the relationship of market capitalization to the aggregate estimated fair value of our reporting units. The valuation methodologies utilized are subject to key judgments and assumptions that are sensitive to change. Estimates of fair value are inherently uncertain and represent only management s reasonable expectation regarding future developments. These estimates and the judgments and assumptions upon which the estimates are based will, in all likelihood, differ in some respects from actual future results. Declines in the estimated fair value of our reporting units could result in goodwill impairments in future periods which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial position. 
  See Note   11   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our goodwill. 
  Employee Benefit Plans 
  Certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. sponsor and/or administer various plans that provide defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits covering eligible employees and sales representatives. The calculation of the obligations and expenses associated with these plans requires an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases and healthcare cost trend rates, as well as assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. In consultation with external actuarial firms, we determine these assumptions based upon a variety of factors such as historical experience of the plan and its assets, currently available market and industry data, and expected benefit payout streams. 
  We determine the expected rate of return on plan assets based upon an approach that considers inflation, real return, term premium, credit spreads, equity risk premium and capital appreciation, as well as expenses, expected asset manager performance, asset weights and the effect of rebalancing. Given the amount of plan assets as of December 31,   2013  , the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed an expected rate of return for both our pension and other postretirement benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic benefit costs would have been a decrease of $92 million and an increase of $92 million, respectively, in 2014. This considers only changes in our assumed long-term rate of return given the level and mix of invested assets at the beginning of the year, without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed long-term rate of return. 
    87 

     Table of Contents  

   We determine the discount rates used to value the pension and postretirement obligations, based upon rates commensurate with current yields on high quality corporate bonds. Given our pension and postretirement obligations as of December 31,   2013  , the beginning of the measurement year, if we had assumed a discount rate for both our pension and postretirement benefit plans that was 100 basis points higher or 100 basis points lower than the rates we assumed, the change in our net periodic benefit costs would have been a decrease of $130 million and an increase of $144 million, respectively, in 2014. This considers only changes in our assumed discount rates without consideration of possible changes in any of the other assumptions described above that could ultimately accompany any changes in our assumed discount rate. The assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to, among other factors, changing market and economic conditions and changes in participant demographics. These differences may have a significant effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements and liquidity. 
  See Note   18   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of assumptions used in measuring liabilities relating to our employee benefit plans. 
  Income Taxes 
  We provide for federal, state and foreign income taxes currently payable, as well as those deferred due to temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Our accounting for income taxes represents our best estimate of various events and transactions. These tax laws are complex and are subject to differing interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. In establishing a provision for income tax expense, we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. We must also make estimates about when in the future certain items will affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions, both domestic and foreign. 
  The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction. Valuation allowances are established when management determines, based on available information, that it is more likely than not that deferred income tax assets will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in determining whether valuation allowances should be established, as well as the amount of such allowances. When making such determination, the Company considers many factors, including: 
           (i) 
    the nature, frequency, and amount of cumulative financial reporting income and losses in recent years; 
              (ii) 
    the jurisdiction in which the deferred tax asset was generated; 
              (iii) 
    the length of time that carryforwards can be utilized in the various taxing jurisdiction; 
              (iv) 
    future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 
              (v) 
    future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences; 
              (vi) 
    taxable income in prior carryback years; and 
              (vii) 
    tax planning strategies. 
     Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be subject to review and adjudication by the court systems of the various tax jurisdictions or may be settled with the taxing authority upon audit. We determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit is recorded in the financial statements. We may be required to change our provision for income taxes when estimates used in determining valuation allowances on deferred tax assets significantly change, or when receipt of new information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation allowances. Additionally, future events, such as changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations, could have an impact on the provision for income tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts reported in the financial statements in the year these changes occur. 
  See Note   19   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our income taxes. 
    88 

     Table of Contents  

   Litigation Contingencies 
  We are a party to a number of legal actions and are involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to estimate the impact on our financial position. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities related to certain lawsuits, including our asbestos-related liability, are especially difficult to estimate due to the limitation of available data and uncertainty regarding numerous variables that can affect liability estimates. The data and variables that impact the assumptions used to estimate our asbestos-related liability include the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against us when exposure to asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. On a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in our consolidated financial statements. It is possible that an adverse outcome in certain of our litigation and regulatory investigations, including asbestos-related cases, or the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts recorded could have a material effect upon our consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. 
  See Note   21   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our assessment of litigation contingencies. 
    Economic Capital 
  Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in our business.  
  Our economic capital model aligns segment allocated equity with emerging standards and consistent risk principles. The model applies statistics-based risk evaluation principles to the material risks to which the Company is exposed. These consistent risk principles include calibrating required economic capital shock factors to a specific confidence level and time horizon and applying an industry standard method for the inclusion of diversification benefits among risk types. Economic capital-based risk estimation is an evolving science and industry best practices have emerged and continue to evolve. Areas of evolving industry best practices include stochastic liability valuation techniques, alternative methodologies for the calculation of diversification benefits, and the quantification of appropriate shock levels.  
  For our domestic segments, net investment income is credited or charged based on the level of allocated equity; however, changes in allocated equity do not impact our consolidated net investment income, operating earnings or income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax.  
  Net investment income is based upon the actual results of each segment s specifically identifiable investment portfolios adjusted for allocated equity. Other costs are allocated to each of the segments based upon: (i) a review of the nature of such costs; (ii) time studies analyzing the amount of employee compensation costs incurred by each segment; and (iii) cost estimates included in the Company s product pricing. 
  MetLife management is responsible for the ongoing production and enhancement of the economic capital model and reviews its approach periodically to ensure that it remains consistent with emerging industry practice standards. See    Executive Summary   Consolidated Company Outlook  for information regarding the change in our capital allocation methodology. 
    Acquisitions and Dispositions 
  In July 2014, all regulatory approvals necessary to establish the previously announced life insurance joint venture in Vietnam among MetLife, Inc. (through MetLife Limited), Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Investment   Development of Vietnam and Bank for Investment   Development of Vietnam Insurance Joint Stock Corporation were received. Operations of the joint venture (BIDV MetLife Life Insurance Limited Liability Company) commenced in the fourth quarter of 2014. 
  In April 2014, MetLife, Inc. and Malaysia s AMMB Holdings Bhd ( AMMB ) successfully completed the formation of their previously announced strategic partnership, in which each now holds approximately 50% of both AmMetLife Insurance Berhad and AmMetTakaful Berhad, each of which became parties to exclusive 20-year distribution agreements with AMMB bank affiliates. 
  See Note   3   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Company s acquisitions and dispositions. 
    89 

       Table of Contents  

   Results of Operations 
  Consolidated Results 
  Sales experience was mixed across our businesses for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 2013. With the slow and steady economic recovery in the U.S., our group term life, dental and disability businesses generated premium growth through stronger sales and improved persistency, with the dental business also benefiting from the positive impact of pricing actions on existing business. The introduction of new products also drove growth in our voluntary benefits business. The sustained low interest rate environment has contributed to the underfunding of pension plans; as a result, we experienced a decrease in sales of pension closeouts. Competitive pricing and a relative increase in participation drove an increase in structured settlement sales. Sales of domestic variable annuities declined as we continued to focus on pricing discipline and risk management. Sales in the majority of our other businesses abroad improved. In our Retail segment, higher fixed and indexed annuity sales were partially offset by lower sales of life products, mainly driven by the discontinuance of our lifetime secondary guarantees on universal life products.  

Year Ended December 31,   2014   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2013 
  During the year ended December 31, 2014, income (loss) from continuing operations, before provision for income tax, increased $4.8 billion ($2.9 billion, net of income tax) from 2013 primarily driven by a favorable change in net derivative gains (losses), partially offset by an unfavorable change in net investment gains (losses). Income (loss) from continuing operations, before provision for income tax also reflects a $262 million ($174 million, net of income tax) favorable change as a result of our annual assumption reviews related to reserves and DAC. 
    90 

       Table of Contents  

   We manage our investment portfolio using disciplined ALM principles, focusing on cash flow and duration to support our current and future liabilities. Our intent is to match the timing and amount of liability cash outflows with invested assets that have cash inflows of comparable timing and amount, while optimizing risk-adjusted net investment income and risk-adjusted total return. Our investment portfolio is heavily weighted toward fixed income investments, with over 80% of our portfolio invested in fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans. These securities and loans have varying maturities and other characteristics which cause them to be generally well suited for matching the cash flow and duration of insurance liabilities. We also use derivatives as an integral part of our management of the investment portfolio to hedge certain risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit spreads and equity market levels.  
  We purchase investments to support our insurance liabilities and not to generate net investment gains and losses. However, net investment gains and losses are incurred and can change significantly from period to period due to changes in external influences, including changes in market factors such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit spreads and equity markets; counterparty specific factors such as financial performance, credit rating and collateral valuation; and internal factors such as portfolio rebalancing. Changes in these factors from period to period can significantly impact the levels of both impairments and realized gains and losses on investments sold. 
  We use freestanding interest rate, equity, credit and currency derivatives to hedge certain invested assets and insurance liabilities. Certain of these hedges are designated and qualify as accounting hedges, which reduce volatility in earnings. For those hedges not designated as accounting hedges, changes in market factors lead to the recognition of fair value changes in net derivative gains (losses) generally without an offsetting gain or loss recognized in earnings for the item being hedged which creates volatility in earnings. 
  Certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits contain embedded derivatives that are measured at estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity contract, with changes in estimated fair value recorded in net derivative gains (losses). We use freestanding derivatives to hedge the market risks inherent in these variable annuity guarantees. The valuation of these embedded derivatives includes a nonperformance risk adjustment, which is unhedged and can be a significant driver of net derivative gains (losses) and volatility in earnings, but does not have an economic impact on us. 
  The variable annuity embedded derivatives and associated freestanding derivative hedges are collectively referred to as  VA program derivatives  in the following table. All other derivatives that are economic hedges of certain invested assets and insurance liabilities are referred to as  non-VA program derivatives  in the following table. The table below presents the impact on net derivative gains (losses) from non-VA program derivatives and VA program derivatives: 

91 

       Table of Contents  

   The favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) on non-VA program derivatives was $3.4 billion ($2.2 billion, net of income tax). This was primarily due to long-term interest rates decreasing in 2014 and increasing in 2013, favorably impacting receive-fixed interest rate swaps and interest rate swaptions. These freestanding derivatives were primarily hedging long duration liability portfolios. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other key currencies, as well as the Japanese yen weakening less against the U.S. dollar in 2014 versus 2013, favorably impacted foreign currency swaps and forwards that primarily hedge foreign denominated fixed maturity securities. Because certain of these hedging strategies are not designated or do not qualify as accounting hedges, the changes in the estimated fair value of these freestanding derivatives are recognized in net derivative gains (losses) without an offsetting gain or loss recognized in earnings for the item being hedged. 
  The favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) on VA program derivatives was $1.1 billion ($742 million, net of income tax). This was due to a favorable change of $965 million ($627 million, net of income tax) related to the change in the nonperformance risk adjustment on embedded derivatives and a favorable change of $273 million ($178 million, net of income tax) on market risks in embedded derivatives, net of the impact of freestanding derivatives hedging those risks, partially offset by an unfavorable change of $97 million ($63 million, net of income tax) on other risks in embedded derivatives. Other risks relate primarily to the impact of policyholder behavior and other non-market risks that generally cannot be hedged. 
  The aforementioned $965 million ($627 million, net of income tax) favorable change in the nonperformance risk adjustment was due to a favorable change of $629 million, before income tax, as a result of changes in capital market inputs, such as long-term interest rates and key equity index levels, on the variable annuity guarantees, as well as a favorable change of $336 million, before income tax, related to changes in our own credit spread. 
  When equity index levels decrease in isolation, the variable annuity guarantees become more valuable to policyholders, which results in an increase in the undiscounted embedded derivative liability. Discounting this unfavorable change by the risk adjusted rate yields a smaller loss than by discounting at the risk free rate, thus creating a gain from including an adjustment for nonperformance risk. 
  When the risk free interest rate decreases in isolation, discounting the embedded derivative liability produces a higher valuation of the liability than if the risk free interest rate had remained constant. Discounting this unfavorable change by the risk adjusted rate yields a smaller loss than by discounting at the risk free interest rate, thus creating a gain from including an adjustment for nonperformance risk. 
  When our own credit spread increases in isolation, discounting the embedded derivative liability produces a lower valuation of the liability than if our own credit spread had remained constant. As a result, a gain is created from including an adjustment for nonperformance risk. For each of these primary market drivers, the opposite effect occurs when they move in the opposite direction. 
  The foregoing $273 million ($178 million, net of income tax) favorable change was comprised of a $6.3 billion ($4.1 billion, net of income tax) favorable change in freestanding derivatives hedging market risks in embedded derivatives, which was largely offset by a $6.1 billion ($3.9 billion, net of income tax) unfavorable change in market risks in embedded derivatives. 
  The primary changes in market factors are summarized as follows: 
             
    Long-term interest rates decreased in 2014 and increased in 2013, contributing to a favorable change in our freestanding derivatives and an unfavorable change in our embedded derivatives. For example, the 30-year U.S. swap rate decreased by 31% in 2014 and increased by 40% in 2013. 
                 
    Changes in foreign currency exchange rates contributed to a favorable change in our freestanding derivatives and an unfavorable change in our embedded derivatives. For example, the U.S. dollar strengthened against the Japanese yen by 14% in 2014 as compared with 22% in 2013.   
     The foregoing $97 million ($63 million, net of income tax) unfavorable change in other risks in embedded derivatives was primarily due to an increase in the risk margin adjustment caused by higher policyholder behavior risks, along with updates to the actuarial assumptions, partially offset by favorable changes in all other risk factors. 
  The unfavorable change in net investment gains (losses) of $358 million ($233 million, net of income tax) primarily reflects a 2014 loss on the disposition of MAL, partially offset by 2014 gains on sales of real estate and real estate joint ventures.  
    92 

       Table of Contents  

   Our 2014 results include a $161 million ($105 million, net of income tax) benefit associated with our annual assumption review related to reserves and DAC, of which $137 million ($89 million, net of income tax) was recognized in net derivative gains (losses). Of the $161 million benefit, $82 million ($53 million, net of income tax) was related to DAC and $79 million ($52 million, net of income tax) was associated with reserves.  
  The $137 million gain recognized in net derivative gains (losses) associated with our annual assumption review was included within the other risks in embedded derivatives caption in the table above. 
  As a result of our annual assumption review, changes were made to economic, policyholder behavior, mortality and other assumptions. The most significant impacts were in the Retail Life and Annuity blocks of businesses and are summarized as follows:  
             
    Changes in economic assumptions resulted in a decrease in reserves, offset by unfavorable DAC, resulting in a net benefit of $229 million ($149 million, net of income tax). 
                
    Changes to policyholder behavior and mortality assumptions resulted in reserve increases, offset by favorable DAC, resulting in a net loss of $175 million ($114 million, net of income tax).  
                
    The remaining updates resulted in a decrease in reserves, coupled with favorable DAC, resulting in a benefit of $107 million ($70 million, net of income tax). The most notable update was related to our projection of closed block results.  
     Our 2013 results include a $101 million ($69 million, net of income tax) charge associated with our annual assumption review related to reserves and DAC, of which $138 million ($90 million, net of income tax) was recognized in net derivative gains (losses). Of the $101 million charge, $228 million ($150 million, net of income tax) was related to reserves, offset by $127 million ($81 million, net of income tax) associated with DAC. The $138 million loss recorded in net derivative gains (losses) associated with our annual assumption review was included within the other risks in embedded derivatives caption in the table above. 
  Income (loss) from continuing operations, before provision for income tax, related to the divested businesses, excluding net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), improved $156 million to a loss of $13 million in 2014 from a loss of $169 million in 2013. Included in this improvement was a decrease in total revenues of $142 million, before income tax, and a decrease in total expenses of $298 million, before income tax. The divested businesses include certain MetLife Bank businesses and MAL. 
  Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $2.5 billion, or 28% of income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, compared with $661 million, or 16% of income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2013. The Company s 2014 and 2013 effective tax rates differed from the U.S. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to non-taxable investment income, tax credits for low income housing, and foreign earnings taxed at lower rates than the U.S. statutory rate. The Company s 2013 effective tax rate also reflected tax benefits in Japan related to the 2012 branch restructuring and the estimated reversal of temporary differences. Our 2014 results include a $38 million tax charge related to a portion of the aforementioned settlement of a licensing matter, and the PPACA fee, both of which were not deductible for income tax purposes, as well as a $54 million tax charge related to tax reform in Chile and a $45 million tax charge related to the repatriation of earnings from Japan. These charges were partially offset by a $32 million one-time tax benefit related to the filing of the Company s U.S. federal tax return. In addition, in 2013, the Company received an income tax refund from the Japanese tax authority and recorded a $119 million reduction to income tax expense. 
  As more fully described in    Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures,  we use operating earnings, which does not equate to income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, as determined in accordance with GAAP, to analyze our performance, evaluate segment performance, and allocate resources. We believe that the presentation of operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders, as we measure it for management purposes, enhances the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of the business. Operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders should not be viewed as substitutes for income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, and net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc. s common shareholders, respectively. Operating earnings available to common shareholders increased $299 million, net of income tax, to $6.6 billion, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2014 from $6.3 billion, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2013. 
    93 

       Table of Contents  

   Year Ended December 31,   2013   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2012 
  During the year ended December 31, 2013, income (loss) from continuing operations, before provision for income tax, increased $2.6 billion ($2.1 billion, net of income tax) from 2012 primarily driven by a 2012 goodwill impairment charge combined with favorable changes in net investment gains (losses) and operating earnings, partially offset by an unfavorable change in net derivative gains (losses). Also included in income (loss) from continuing operations, before provision for income tax, are the improved results of the divested businesses.  
  The variable annuity embedded derivatives and associated freestanding derivative hedges are collectively referred to as  VA program derivatives  in the following table. All other derivatives that are economic hedges of certain invested assets and insurance liabilities are referred to as  non-VA program derivatives  in the following table. The table below presents the impact on net derivative gains (losses) from non-VA program derivatives and VA program derivatives: 

The unfavorable change in net derivative gains (losses) on non-VA program derivatives was $2.3 billion ($1.5 billion, net of income tax). This was primarily due to long-term interest rates increasing more in 2013 than in 2012, unfavorably impacting receive-fixed interest rate swaps, net long interest rate floors and receiver swaptions. These freestanding derivatives were primarily hedging long duration liability portfolios. The weakening of the Japanese yen relative to other key currencies unfavorably impacted foreign currency forwards and futures that primarily hedge certain bonds. Because certain of these hedging strategies are not designated or do not qualify as accounting hedges, the changes in the estimated fair value of these freestanding derivatives are recognized in net derivative gains (losses) without an offsetting gain or loss recognized in earnings for the item being hedged. 
  The favorable change in net derivative gains (losses) on VA program derivatives was $945 million ($614 million, net of income tax). This was due to a favorable change of $1.2 billion ($763 million, net of income tax) on other risks in embedded derivatives, a favorable change of $707 million ($460 million, net of income tax) related to the change in the nonperformance risk adjustment on embedded derivatives and an unfavorable change of $937 million ($609 million, net of income tax) on market risks in embedded derivatives, net of the impact of freestanding derivatives hedging those risks. Other risks relate primarily to the impact of policyholder behavior and other non-market risks that generally cannot be hedged. 
  The nonperformance risk adjustment loss of $952 million ($619 million, net of income tax) in 2013 was comprised of a loss of $337 million due to a decrease in our own credit spread, as well as a loss of $615 million due to the impact of changes in capital market inputs, such as long-term interest rates and key equity index levels, on the variable annuity guarantees. We calculate the nonperformance risk adjustment as the change in the embedded derivative discounted at the risk adjusted rate (which includes our own credit spread to the extent that the embedded derivative is in-the-money) less the change in the embedded derivative discounted at the risk-free rate. 
    94 

       Table of Contents  

   The foregoing $1.2 billion ($763 million, net of income tax) favorable change in other risks in embedded derivatives was primarily due to the cross effect of capital markets changes and refinements in the attribution analysis and valuation model, including periodic updates to actuarial assumptions and updates to better reflect product features, which accounted for $961 million of this favorable change. Other items contributing to this change included: 
             
    A decrease in the risk margin adjustment caused by lower policyholder behavior risks, which resulted in a favorable year over year change in the valuation of the embedded derivatives. 
                
    The mismatch of fund performance between actual and modeled funds and periodic updates to the mapping of policyholder funds into groups of representative indices, which resulted in a favorable year over year change in the valuation of the embedded derivatives. 
                
    A combination of other factors, such as in-force changes, resulted in an unfavorable year over year change in the valuation of the embedded derivatives. 
     The foregoing $937 million ($609 million, net of income tax) unfavorable change is comprised of a $2.7 billion ($1.8 billion, net of income tax) unfavorable change in freestanding derivatives that hedge market risks in embedded derivatives, which was partially offset by a $1.8 billion ($1.2 billion, net of income tax) favorable change in market risks in embedded derivatives. 
  The primary changes in market factors are summarized as follows: 
             
    Long-term interest rates increased more in 2013 than in 2012, contributing to an unfavorable change in our freestanding derivatives and a favorable change in our embedded derivatives. 
                
    Key equity index levels increased more in 2013 than in 2012 contributing to an unfavorable change in our freestanding derivatives and a favorable change in our embedded derivatives. 
                
    Key equity volatility measures decreased less in 2013 than in 2012, contributing to a favorable change in our freestanding derivatives and an unfavorable change in our embedded derivatives. 
                
    Changes in foreign currency exchange rates contributed to an unfavorable change in our freestanding derivatives and a favorable change in our embedded derivatives. 
     The favorable change in net investment gains (losses) primarily reflects an increase in net gains on sales of fixed maturity securities in 2013 coupled with a decrease in fixed maturity securities impairments from lower intent-to-sell impairments and improving economic fundamentals.  
  During our 2013 goodwill impairment testing, we determined that goodwill was not impaired. In 2012, we recorded a $1.9 billion ($1.6 billion, net of income tax) non-cash charge for goodwill impairment associated with our U.S. Retail annuities business.  
  Our 2013 results include a $101 million ($69 million, net of income tax) charge associated with the global review of assumptions related to reserves and DAC, of which $138 million ($90 million, net of income tax) was recognized in net derivative gains (losses). Of the $101 million charge, $228 million ($150 million, net of income tax) was related to reserves, offset by $127 million ($81 million, net of income tax) associated with DAC.  
  The foregoing $138 million loss recorded in net derivative gains (losses) associated with the global review of assumptions was included within the other risks in embedded derivatives caption in the table above. 
  As a result of the global review of assumptions, changes were made to policyholder behavior and mortality assumptions, as well as to economic assumptions. The most significant impacts were in Retail Annuities.  
             
    Changes to policyholder behavior and mortality assumptions resulted in reserve increases, offset by favorable DAC, for a net loss of $154 million ($103 million, net of income tax).  
                
    Changes in economic assumptions resulted in a decrease in reserves, offset by unfavorable DAC, for a net benefit of $53 million ($34 million, net of income tax).  
     Income (loss) from continuing operations, before provision for income tax, related to divested businesses, excluding net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), increased $448 million to a loss of $169 million in 2013 from a loss of $617 million in 2012. Included in this improvement was a decrease in total revenues of $970 million, before income tax, and a decrease in total expenses of $1.4 billion, before income tax.  
    95 

       Table of Contents  

   Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $661 million, or 16% of income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax, compared with $128 million, or 9% of income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax, for 2012. Foreign earnings include one-time tax benefits of $119 million related to the receipt of a Japan tax refund, $69 million related to the estimated reversal of Japan temporary differences, and $65 million related to the change in repatriation assumptions for foreign earnings of certain European operations. In addition, as previously mentioned, the year ended December 31, 2012 included a $1.9 billion ($1.6 billion, net of income tax) non-cash charge for goodwill impairment. The tax benefit associated with this charge was limited to $247 million on the associated tax goodwill. 
  Operating earnings available to common shareholders increased $612 million, net of income tax, to $6.3 billion, net of income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $5.6 billion, net of income tax, in 2012. 
    96 

       Table of Contents  

   Reconciliation of income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, to operating earnings available to common shareholders 
  Year Ended December 31,   2014   

  Year Ended December 31,     2013   

  Year Ended December 31,   2012   

  ______________ 
           (1) 
    See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses under    Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures  for the components of such adjustments. 
       97 

       Table of Contents  

   Reconciliation of GAAP revenues to operating revenues and GAAP expenses to operating expenses 
  Year Ended December 31,     2014   

  Year Ended December 31,     2013   

  Year Ended December 31,   2012   

  ______________ 
    98 

       Table of Contents  

            (1) 
    See definitions of operating revenues and operating expenses under    Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures  for the components of such adjustments. 
       Consolidated Results   Operating    

  Year Ended December 31,   2014   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2013 
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. 
  The primary drivers of the increase in operating earnings were higher net investment income from portfolio growth, higher asset-based fee income and a decrease in interest credited expense, partially offset by unfavorable mortality, morbidity and claims experience and the impact of decreasing investment yields on net investment income. Excluding the impact of the aforementioned tax reform charge in Chile, the fourth quarter 2013 acquisition of ProVida increased operating earnings by $166 million. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a $127 million negative impact on results compared to 2013. 
  We benefited from strong sales and business growth across many of our products as evidenced by higher asset-based fee income from growth in our businesses abroad. However, we continue to focus on pricing discipline and risk management which resulted in a decrease in sales of our variable annuity products. This decline in sales, in combination with surrenders and withdrawals, resulted in negative net flows, which caused lower average separate account assets and, consequently, lower asset-based fee income in our Retail segment. Excluding the impact of the divested businesses and the acquisition of ProVida, growth in our investment portfolios in the majority of our segments generated higher net investment income. Our property   casualty businesses benefited from an increase in average premium per policy. These positive results were partially offset by an associated increase in DAC amortization. The changes in business growth discussed above resulted in a $409 million increase in operating earnings. 
    99 

     Table of Contents  

   Market factors, including the sustained low interest rate environment, continued to impact our investment yields, as well as our crediting rates. Excluding the results of the divested businesses, the acquisition of ProVida and the impact of inflation-indexed investments in the Latin America segment, investment yields decreased. Certain of our inflation-indexed products are backed by inflation-indexed investments. Changes in inflation cause fluctuations in net investment income with a corresponding fluctuation in policyholder benefits, resulting in a minimal impact to operating earnings. Investment yields were negatively impacted by the adverse impact of the sustained low interest rate environment on fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans yields, lower returns on our hedge funds, as well as increased holdings of lower yielding Japanese government securities in the Japan fixed annuity business. These decreases were partially offset by higher returns on interest rate derivatives, real estate joint ventures and private equity investments. Yields were also favorably impacted by increased sales of foreign currency-denominated fixed annuities in Japan, resulting in an increase in higher yielding foreign currency-denominated fixed maturity securities. The sustained low interest rate environment also resulted in lower interest credited expense as we set interest credited rates lower on both new business and certain in-force business with rate resets that are contractually tied to external indices or contain discretionary rate reset provisions. Our average separate account balances grew with the equity markets driving higher fee income in our annuity business. However, this was partially offset by higher DAC amortization due to the significant prior period equity market increase, as well as higher asset-based commissions and costs associated with our variable annuity GMDBs. The changes in market factors discussed above resulted in a $147 million decrease in operating earnings. 
  Less favorable mortality and morbidity was driven by our Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segment. In addition, in our property   casualty businesses, catastrophe-related losses increased due to severe storm activity in 2014. Non-catastrophe related claim costs also increased as a result of severe winter weather in 2014. Claims experience in our Latin America segment was also unfavorable. The combined impact of mortality, morbidity and claims experience decreased operating earnings by $146 million.  
  On an annual basis, we review and update our long-term assumptions used in our calculations of certain insurance-related liabilities and DAC. These annual updates, which occurred in both years, resulted in a $12 million decrease in operating earnings in 2014 as compared to 2013. In addition to our annual updates, refinements to DAC and certain insurance-related liabilities that were recorded in both years increased operating earnings by $75 million. Such refinements include favorable reserve adjustments in 2014 related to disability premium waivers and a 2014 charge related to delayed settlement interest on unclaimed funds held by state governments, both in our life business within our Retail segment, as well as a write-down of DAC and VOBA in 2013 related to pension reform in Poland within our EMEA segment. Also, our 2013 results include a reserve strengthening in Australia within our Asia segment of $57 million, net of reinsurance. 
  A $112 million decrease in expenses was primarily driven by lower employee-related costs. In addition, our 2014 results include charges totaling $57 million related to the aforementioned settlement of a licensing matter with the Department of Financial Services and the District Attorney, New York County. The PPACA fee reduced operating earnings by $58 million in 2014. We increased our litigation reserves related to asbestos more in 2014 than in 2013 resulting in a $16 million decline in operating earnings.  
  The Company s 2014 and 2013 effective tax rates differed from the U.S. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to non-taxable investment income, tax credits for low income housing, and foreign earnings taxed at lower rates than the U.S. statutory rate. In 2014, the Company realized a $32 million tax benefit related to the filing of the Company s U.S. federal tax return, as well as additional tax benefits of $36 million related to the separate account dividends received deduction and $58 million primarily related to foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the U.S. and other tax preference items. However, this was partially offset by a $38 million tax charge related to a portion of the aforementioned settlement of a licensing matter and the PPACA fee, both of which were not deductible for income tax purposes.  
  Year Ended December 31,   2013   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2012 
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. 
  During the fourth quarter of 2013, we increased our litigation reserve related to asbestos by $101 million. During 2013, we also increased our other litigation reserves by $46 million. The fourth quarter 2013 acquisition of ProVida in Chile increased operating earnings by $48 million. In addition, the year ended December 31, 2012 included a $52 million charge representing a multi-state examination payment related to unclaimed property and our use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File to identify potential life insurance claims, as well as the acceleration of benefit payments to policyholders under the settlements of such claims. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a $58 million negative impact on results compared to 2012. 
    100 

     Table of Contents  

   In 2013, we made additional changes to variable annuity guarantee features which, in combination with product changes made in 2012, resulted in a significant decrease in variable annuity sales in our Retail segment. The demand for foreign currency-denominated fixed annuity products in Japan also declined as a result of a weakening yen and a sharp increase in equity markets, which decreased sales. However, as a result of significant positive net flows in our Retail segment since 2012, we experienced growth in our average separate account assets. This, combined with an increase in surrenders in Japan driven by market conditions, generated higher policy fee income of $382 million. Deposits and funding agreement issuances in 2013 in our Corporate Benefit Funding segment, combined with positive net flows from our universal life business resulted in growth in our investment portfolio which generated higher net investment income of $394 million. This increase in net investment income was partially offset by a $138 million corresponding increase in interest credited on certain liabilities, most notably in the Corporate Benefit Funding segment. A decrease in commissions, which was primarily driven by the decline in annuity sales, was partially offset by a decrease in related DAC capitalization, which combined, resulted in a $103 million increase in operating earnings. An increase in average premium per policy, coupled with an increase in exposures in our property   casualty businesses resulted in a $106 million increase in operating earnings. Overall business growth was the primary driver of higher DAC amortization of $302 million in 2013. In our international segments, higher premiums were more than offset by higher policyholder benefits and operating expenses, resulting in a $123 million decrease in operating earnings.  
  Market factors, including the sustained low interest rate environment, continued to impact our investment yields, as well as our crediting rates. Excluding the results of the divested businesses and the impact of inflation-indexed investments in the Latin America segment, investment yields declined. Certain of our inflation-indexed products are backed by inflation-indexed investments. Changes in inflation cause fluctuations in net investment income with a corresponding fluctuation in policyholder benefits, resulting in a minimal impact to operating earnings. Yield changes were primarily driven by the impact of the low interest rate environment on fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans and from lower returns on real estate joint ventures. These declines were partially offset by higher income on interest rate derivatives, improved returns on other limited partnership interests and the favorable impact of the continued repositioning of the Japan portfolio to higher yielding investments. A significant portion of these derivatives was entered into prior to the onset of the current low interest rate environment to mitigate the risk of low interest rates in the U.S. The low interest rate environment also resulted in lower interest credited expense as we set interest credited rates lower on both new business and certain in-force business with rate resets that are contractually tied to external indices or contain discretionary rate reset provisions. Our average separate account balance grew with the equity markets driving higher fee income in our annuity business. This continued positive equity market performance also resulted in lower DAC amortization. The changes in market factors discussed above resulted in a $256 million increase in operating earnings.  
  We experienced less favorable mortality in our Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits and Retail segments. In our Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segment, mixed claims experience with a net unfavorable result was driven by an increase in claims incidence. In our property   casualty businesses, catastrophe-related losses decreased as compared to 2012, primarily due to Superstorm Sandy in 2012; however, this was partially offset by an increase in non-catastrophe claim costs, which were primarily the result of higher frequencies. The combined impact of mortality and claims experience decreased operating earnings by $101 million. 
  Our annual assumption updates resulted in a $20 million increase in operating earnings primarily driven by the Asia segment. In addition to our annual updates, other adjustments and DAC refinements were recorded in both 2013 and 2012 and resulted in a $21 million decrease in operating earnings. Also, as a result of a review of our own recent claims experience, and in consideration of the worsening trend for the industry in Australia, we strengthened our group total and permanent disability claim reserves in Australia, which reduced operating earnings by $57 million. 
  In addition, an increase in operating expenses, primarily employee-related costs, was partially offset by a decline in expenses, most notably in our Retail segment, primarily driven by savings from the Company s enterprise-wide strategic initiative and resulted in an $82 million decrease in operating earnings.  
  In 2013, the Company realized additional tax benefits of $187 million compared to 2012, primarily from the higher utilization of tax preferenced investments and the Company s decision to permanently reinvest certain foreign earnings. 
    101 

       Table of Contents  

   Segment Results and Corporate   Other 
  Retail 

Year Ended December 31,   2014   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2013 
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. 
  Changes to our guarantee features since 2012, along with continued management of sales in 2014 by focusing on pricing discipline and risk management, drove a $4.5 billion, or 41%, decrease in variable annuity sales. Life sales were also lower, mainly driven by the discontinuance of our lifetime secondary guarantees on universal life products. These declines were partially offset by an increase in fixed and indexed annuity sales. We expect our sales of annuities to increase in the future. To this end, we introduced new variable annuity products and/or enhancements in late 2014 and early 2015.  A significant portion of our operating earnings is driven by separate account balances. Most directly, these balances determine asset-based fee income but they also impact DAC amortization and asset-based commissions. Separate account balances are driven by sales, movements in the market, surrenders, withdrawals, benefit payments, transfers and policy charges. Separate account balances increased over 2013 as a result of continued strong market performance, partially offset by negative net flows as surrenders and withdrawals exceeded sales. 
  A $124 million increase in operating earnings was attributable to business growth. Our life businesses had positive net flows, despite a decline in universal life sales, which resulted in higher net investment income. This favorable impact was partially offset by increases in DAC amortization and interest credited expenses, as well as lower fees, as 2013 benefited from the first year fees received on the now discontinued lifetime secondary guarantees on our universal life products. In our deferred annuities business, the impact of negative net flows contributed to a decrease in asset-based fee income, partially offset by a reduction in interest credited expenses in the general account. Additionally, costs associated with our variable annuity GMDBs were lower. In our property   casualty business, an increase in average premium per policy in both our auto and homeowners businesses contributed to the increase in operating earnings. In addition, we earned more income on a larger invested asset base, which resulted from a higher amount of allocated equity as compared to 2013.  
    102 

       Table of Contents  

   A $48 million decrease in operating earnings was attributable to market factors, including equity markets and interest rates. Strong equity market performance led to higher asset-based commissions, which were, in part, driven by separate account balances, higher DAC amortization and costs associated with our GMDBs. The more favorable separate account returns in 2013 drove lower DAC amortization in 2013 as compared to 2014 where equity returns were much less favorable. These negative impacts were partially offset by higher asset-based fee income in 2014 due to increased average separate account balances. This positive equity market performance also drove higher net investment income from private equity investments. The sustained low interest rate environment resulted in a decline in net investment income on our fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans as proceeds from maturing investments were reinvested at lower yields. This negative interest rate impact was partially offset by lower interest credited expense as we reduced interest credited rates on contracts with discretionary rate reset provisions, and lower DAC amortization in our life business. Lower returns in our hedge funds also decreased operating earnings and were partially offset by higher income from real estate joint ventures and increased prepayment fees.  
  Less favorable mortality experience in our variable and universal life business, primarily driven by three large, unreinsured claims, partially offset by favorable experience in the traditional life and immediate annuities businesses, resulted in a $40 million decrease in operating earnings. In our property   casualty business, non-catastrophe claim costs increased by $8 million as a result of higher frequencies in our auto business offset by lower frequencies in our homeowners business. Catastrophe-related losses increased $5 million as compared to 2013. In addition, favorable morbidity experience in our individual disability income business resulted in a $6 million increase in operating earnings. 
  On an annual basis, we review and update our long-term assumptions used in our calculations of certain insurance-related liabilities and DAC. These annual updates, which occurred in both years, resulted in a net operating earnings decrease of $11 million and were primarily related to unfavorable DAC unlockings in the variable annuity business, partially offset by favorable DAC unlockings in our traditional and universal life businesses. Refinements to DAC and certain insurance-related liabilities that were recorded in both periods resulted in a $7 million increase in operating earnings, which included $104 million of favorable reserve adjustments in 2014 related to disability premium waivers and a 2014 charge of $57 million related to delayed settlement interest on unclaimed funds held by state governments, both in our life business. Operating earnings increased due to a decline in expenses of $109 million, mainly the result of lower employee-related costs and the 2013 increase in litigation reserves.  
  Year Ended December 31,   2013   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2012 
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts (with the exception of sales data) discussed below are net of income tax. 
  A $245 million increase in operating earnings was largely attributable to business growth. This growth was generated, in part, in the life and annuity businesses, despite sales declines in those businesses. Our life businesses had positive net flows, mainly in the universal life business, which is reflected in higher net investment income, partially offset by an increase in DAC amortization. On the annuities side, average separate account assets grew, driven by strong sales in 2012, resulting in an increase in asset-based fees. In our property   casualty business, an increase in average premium per policy in both our auto and homeowners businesses contributed to the increase in operating earnings. In addition, we earned more income on a larger invested asset base, which resulted from a higher amount of allocated equity in the business as compared to 2012. 
  The rising equity markets increased our average separate account balances driving an increase in asset-based fee income. This continued positive equity market performance also drove higher net investment income from other limited partnership interests and resulted in lower DAC amortization. These positive impacts were partially offset by higher asset-based commissions, which are also, in part, determined by separate account balances and higher costs associated with our variable annuity GMDBs. The sustained low interest rate environment resulted in a decline in net investment income on our fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans as proceeds from maturing investments are reinvested at lower yields. Additionally, we had a lower interest crediting rate on allocated equity in 2013, which resulted in lower net investment income. These negative interest rate impacts were partially offset by higher income earned on interest rate derivatives and lower interest credited expense as we reduced interest credited rates on contracts with discretionary rate reset provisions. Lower returns on real estate joint ventures also decreased operating earnings. The net impact of these items resulted in a $174 million increase in operating earnings. Also, the impact of the sustained low interest rate environment contributed to less favorable experience resulting in a reduction to our dividend scale, mainly within the closed block, which was announced in the fourth quarter of 2012. This dividend action favorably impacted operating earnings by $61 million. With respect to the results of the closed block, the impact of this dividend action was more than offset by other unfavorable earnings drivers that also affected the closed block and have been incorporated in these discussions.  
    103 

       Table of Contents  

   Less favorable mortality experience in the variable and universal life, and income annuities businesses, partially offset by increases in the traditional life business, resulted in a $20 million decrease in operating earnings. This decrease was more than offset by the $26 million charge in 2012 for the expected acceleration of benefit payments to policyholders under a multi-state examination related to unclaimed property. In addition, unfavorable morbidity experience in our individual income disability business resulted in a $6 million decrease in operating earnings. Our property   casualty business non-catastrophe claim costs increased $33 million in 2013, mainly the result of higher frequencies in both our auto and homeowners businesses, as well as higher severities in our homeowners business, partially offset by lower severities in our auto business. Catastrophe-related losses decreased $28 million as compared to 2012, primarily due to Superstorm Sandy in 2012.  
  The combined impact of the 2013 and 2012 annual assumption updates resulted in a net operating earnings decrease of $55 million. This unfavorable impact was primarily related to 2012 DAC unlockings in the variable annuity business, partially offset by less unfavorable life business unlockings in 2013. In addition to our annual updates, certain insurance-related liabilities and DAC refinements recorded in both 2013 and 2012 resulted in a $76 million increase in operating earnings.  
  Also contributing to the increase in operating earnings was a decline in expenses of $30 million, primarily driven by $100 million of savings from the Company s enterprise-wide strategic initiative, partially offset by an increase of $61 million related to increases in litigation reserves and postretirement benefit obligations. 
    Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits  

Year Ended December 31,   2014   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2013 
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. 
  The macroeconomic environment is demonstrating steady growth and instilling further confidence in the U.S. economy. The improvement in the U.S. economy and overall employment remain slow and steady. In 2014, premiums increased across the segment. Our term life, dental and disability businesses generated premium growth through stronger sales and improved persistency, with the dental business also benefiting from pricing actions on existing business. In addition, premiums in our term life business increased due to the impact of experience adjustments on our participating contracts; however, changes in premiums for these contracts were almost entirely offset by the related changes in policyholder benefits. The introduction of new products also drove growth in the voluntary benefits business. Although we have discontinued selling our LTC product, we continue to collect premiums and administer the existing block of business, contributing to asset growth in the segment. 
    104 

     Table of Contents  

   Our life business experienced less favorable mortality in 2014, mainly due to an increase in claims severity in the term life business and increased claims incidence in the group universal life business, which resulted in a $48 million decrease in operating earnings. Unfavorable claims experience in our disability business, driven by higher approvals, was partially offset by higher net closures. In addition, increased utilization of services across the channels of our dental business was partially offset by the impact of lapses on certain insurance liabilities, higher net closures in our LTC business and favorable claims incidence in our AD D business. Our overall net unfavorable claims experience resulted in a $14 million decrease in operating earnings. The impact of favorable refinements to certain insurance and other liabilities in 2014 resulted in an increase in operating earnings of $27 million. In our property   casualty business, catastrophe-related losses increased by $21 million as compared to 2013, mainly due to severe storm activity in 2014. In addition, severe winter weather in 2014 increased non-catastrophe claim costs by $18 million, which was the result of higher frequencies in both our auto and homeowners businesses, as well as higher severities in our homeowners business, partially offset by lower severities in our auto business. These unfavorable results were partially offset by additional favorable development of prior year non-catastrophe losses, which improved operating earnings by $15 million. 
  The impact of changes in market factors, including lower yields on our fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans, and decreased income on alternative investments, partially offset by higher returns on our real estate joint ventures and private equity investments, resulted in lower investment yields. Unlike in the Retail and Corporate Benefit Funding segments, in the Group Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segment, a change in investment yield does not necessarily drive a corresponding change in the rates credited on certain insurance liabilities. The decrease in investment yields, slightly offset by lower crediting rates in 2014, reduced operating earnings by $35 million. 
  The increase in average premium per policy in both our auto and homeowners businesses improved operating earnings by $42 million. Growth in premiums and deposits in 2014, partially offset by a reduction in other liabilities, PABs and allocated equity, resulted in an increase in our average invested assets, increasing operating earnings by $30 million. Consistent with the growth in average invested assets from premiums and deposits, primarily in our LTC business, interest credited on long-duration contracts and PABs increased by $24 million. The PPACA fee increased other expenses by $58 million in 2014; however, the impact of the assessment was significantly offset by a related increase in premiums in the dental business. The remaining increase in other operating expenses, including higher marketing and sales support costs in our property   casualty business, was partially offset by the remaining increase in premiums, fees and other revenues. 
  Year Ended December 31,   2013   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2012 
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. 
  An increase in average premium per policy in both our auto and homeowners businesses improved operating earnings by $44 million. In addition, an increase in exposures resulted in an $11 million increase in operating earnings. The positive impact from higher premiums on this increase in exposures exceeded the negative impact from the related claims. Exposures are defined generally as each automobile for the auto line of business and each residence for the homeowners line of business. An increase in allocated equity and growth in premiums and deposits in 2013, partially offset by a reduction in other liabilities, resulted in an increase in our average invested assets, increasing operating earnings by $34 million. Consistent with the growth in average invested assets from 2013 premiums and deposits, primarily in our LTC business, interest credited on long-duration contracts and policyholder account balances increased by $19 million. In the fourth quarter of 2012, we recorded a $50 million impairment charge on an intangible asset related to a previously acquired dental business. The favorable impact of this 2012 charge was almost entirely offset by higher operating expenses in 2013, primarily from postretirement benefit costs across the segment and an increase in marketing, advertising and sales-related expenses in our property   casualty business.  
  The impact of market factors, including increased income on interest rate derivatives, improved returns on real estate joint ventures and higher prepayment fees received, partially offset by lower returns on our fixed maturity securities, resulted in improved investment yields. The increase in investment yields, as well as lower crediting rates in 2013, the result of the maturity of certain long-duration contracts and PABs at higher rates, contributed $33 million to operating earnings. 
  Our life businesses experienced less favorable mortality in 2013, mainly due to unfavorable claims experience in the group term life and group universal life businesses, which resulted in a $46 million decrease in operating earnings. The impact of favorable reserve refinements in 2012 resulted in a decrease in operating earnings of $23 million. An increase in claims incidence in our disability, LTC and AD D businesses, partially offset by favorable claims experience in our dental business, resulted in a $42 million decrease in operating earnings. In our property   casualty business, lower catastrophe-related losses improved operating earnings by $43 million, primarily due to the impact of Superstorm Sandy in 2012. This increase in operating earnings was partially offset by higher non-catastrophe claim costs of $18 million, the result of higher frequencies, partially offset by lower severities, in both our auto and homeowners businesses. Less favorable development of prior year non-catastrophe losses also reduced operating results by $13 million. 
    105 

       Table of Contents  

   Corporate Benefit Funding 

Year Ended December 31,   2014   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2013 
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. 
  The sustained low interest rate environment has contributed to the underfunding of pension plans, which limits our customers  ability to engage in full pension plan closeout terminations. However, we expect that customers may choose to close out portions of pension plans over time, at costs reflecting current interest rates and availability of capital. Lower pension plan closeouts in 2014 resulted in a decrease in premiums. However, competitive pricing and a relative increase in participation drove an increase in structured settlement sales in 2014. Changes in premiums for these businesses were almost entirely offset by the related changes in policyholder benefits. 
  The sustained low interest rate environment impacted our interest credited rates, as well as our investment yields. Many of our funding agreements and guaranteed interest contract liabilities have interest credited rates that are contractually tied to external indices and, as a result, we set lower interest credited rates on new business, as well as on existing business with terms that can fluctuate. The sustained low interest rate environment drove lower investment yields on mortgage loans and fixed maturity securities. In addition, hedge fund income declined. These unfavorable changes were partially offset by the impact of changes in market factors that drove higher income on interest rate derivatives and improved returns on real estate joint ventures. The impact of lower interest credited expense offset by lower investment returns resulted in an increase in operating earnings of $34 million. 
  The impact of 2014 deposits and funding agreement issuances, as well as increases in allocated equity and other liabilities, resulted in higher invested assets, which drove an increase in net investment income that was partially offset by the related increase in interest credited expense and resulted in a $122 million increase in operating earnings. In addition, strong investment performance and large case sales for our separate account products drove higher average account balances which resulted in an increase in separate account fees of $8 million.  
  Favorable mortality in 2014, primarily in our structured settlements business, resulted in a $24 million increase in operating earnings. The net impact of insurance liability refinements that were recorded in both years increased operating earnings by $28 million. 
    106 

       Table of Contents  

   Year Ended December 31,   2013   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2012    
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. 
  The impact of 2013 deposits and funding agreement issuances contributed to an increase in invested assets, resulting in an increase of $164 million in operating earnings. Growth in deposits and funding agreement issuances generally results in a corresponding increase in interest credited on certain insurance liabilities; this decreased operating earnings by $118 million compared to 2012.  
  The sustained low interest rate environment continued to impact our investment returns, as well as interest credited on certain insurance liabilities. Lower investment returns on our fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans and real estate joint ventures were partially offset by increased earnings on interest rate derivatives and our securities lending program. Many of our funding agreement and guaranteed interest contract liabilities have interest credited rates that are contractually tied to external indices and, as a result, we set lower interest credited rates on new business, as well as on existing business with terms that can fluctuate. The impact of lower interest credited expense was partially offset by lower investment returns and resulted in a net increase in operating earnings of $81 million.  
  Mortality results were mixed across our products and resulted in a slight increase in operating earnings. The net impact of insurance liability refinements in both 2013 and 2012 decreased operating earnings by $25 million.  
  Higher costs associated with technology initiatives and pension and postretirement benefit plans, as well as an increase in litigation reserves, were partially offset by lower employee-related expenses realized through operating efficiencies. This increase in operating expenses was slightly offset by higher fees earned on our separate account balances, which grew during 2013 as a result of an increase in average separate account deposits. The net impact of these items was a $10 million decrease in operating earnings. 
    Latin America 

107 

     Table of Contents  

   Year Ended December 31,   2014   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2013 
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. 
  Operating earnings increased by $108 million over 2013. The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased operating earnings by $57 million compared to 2013. 
  A tax reform bill was enacted in Chile on September 29, 2014 which includes, among other things, a gradual increase in the corporate tax rate. Our Chilean businesses, including ProVida, incurred a one-time tax charge of $41 million as a result of this legislation. Excluding the aforementioned tax reform, our operating earnings increased by $166 million in 2014 due to the fourth quarter 2013 acquisition of ProVida. 
  Latin America experienced organic growth and increased sales of life products in several countries, as well as in our U.S. sponsored direct business. This was partially offset by decreased pension and accident   health sales in Mexico and Brazil. The resulting increase in premiums was partially offset by related changes in policyholder benefits. Growth in our businesses and the impact of inflation drove an increase in average invested assets, which generated higher net investment income and higher policy fee income, partially offset by a corresponding increase in interest credited on certain insurance liabilities. Increases in marketing costs and commissions resulted in higher operating expenses. Business growth also drove an increase in DAC amortization. The items discussed above were the primary drivers of an $80 million increase in operating earnings. 
  The net impact of changes in market factors resulted in a $21 million decrease in operating earnings. This decrease was primarily driven by higher interest credited expense, the unfavorable impact of inflation, and lower yields from alternative investments and mortgage loans in Chile, partially offset by higher investment yields on fixed income securities in Chile and Brazil. 
  Tax-related adjustments in both 2014 and 2013 increased operating earnings by $47 million, excluding the aforementioned tax reform. These tax-related adjustments include 2014 tax benefits related to the devaluation of the peso in Argentina, inflation in Argentina and Chile, and a 2013 tax rate change in Mexico. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable claims experience, primarily due to increased claims severity and frequency in Mexico, Chile and Brazil, which decreased operating earnings by $32 million. In addition, higher expenses, primarily generated by employee- and information technology-related costs across several countries, decreased operating earnings by $19 million. 
  On an annual basis, we review and update our long-term assumptions used in our calculations of certain insurance-related liabilities and DAC, which resulted in a net operating earnings decrease of $7 million. In addition to our annual updates, other refinements to DAC and other adjustments recorded in both 2014 and 2013 resulted in a $7 million decrease in operating earnings. 
  Year Ended December 31,   2013   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2012 
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. 
  Operating earnings decreased by $9 million from 2012. The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased operating earnings by $10 million compared to 2012. The fourth quarter 2013 acquisition of ProVida increased operating earnings by $48 million. 
  Higher premiums from sales growth in several countries were partially offset by the related changes in policyholder benefits. The growth in our businesses drove an increase in average invested assets, which generated higher net investment income and higher policy fee income, partially offset by a corresponding increase in interest credited on certain insurance liabilities. However, the increase in sales also generated a more significant increase in operating expenses, including commissions, which were partially offset by a corresponding increase in DAC capitalization. The items discussed above were the primary drivers of a $2 million decrease in operating earnings. 
  The net impact of market factors resulted in a slight decrease in operating earnings as lower investment yields and higher interest credited expense were offset by the favorable impact of inflation. Investment yields decreased primarily due to lower returns on fixed maturity securities in Brazil, Chile and Argentina, partially offset by improved yields on alternative investments, primarily in Chile.  
  Higher expenses, primarily generated by employee-related costs across several countries, decreased operating earnings by $30 million. In addition, operating earnings decreased $18 million due to certain tax-related charges in both 2013 and 2012.  
    108 

     Table of Contents  

   The 2013 annual assumption update resulted in a net operating earnings increase of $7 million. In addition to our annual updates, other refinements to DAC and other adjustments recorded in both 2013 and 2012 resulted in a $14 million decrease in operating earnings. In addition, operating earnings increased by $11 million due to favorable claims experience in Mexico. 
    Asia 

Year Ended December 31,   2014   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2013 
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. 
  Operating earnings increased by $44 million over 2013. The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced operating earnings by $52 million for 2014 as compared with 2013 and resulted in significant variances in the financial statement line items.  For example, while premiums, fees and other revenues decreased 3% on a reported basis, they increased 3% on a constant currency basis. 
  Asia s premiums, fees and other revenues increased over 2013 primarily driven by broad based in-force growth across the region, including in our ordinary life business in Japan and our group insurance business in Australia. Positive net flows in Korea and Japan, combined with growth in our life business in India and Bangladesh, resulted in higher average invested assets and generated an increase in net investment income.     Changes in premiums for these businesses were offset by related changes in policyholder benefits. The combined impact of the items discussed above improved operating earnings by $83 million. 
  Investment returns were negatively affected by the adverse impact of the sustained low interest rate environment on mortgage loans and an increase in lower yielding Japanese government securities, combined with lower returns on our other limited partnership interests and decreased prepayment fee income. These declines in yields were partially offset by the favorable impact of increased sales of foreign currency-denominated fixed annuities resulting in an increase in higher yielding foreign currency-denominated fixed maturity securities in Japan. Declines in yields, combined with the impact of foreign currency hedges, resulted in a $41 million decrease in operating earnings. 
  Our 2013 results include a strengthening of group and permanent disability claim reserves of $57 million, net of reinsurance, in Australia. In addition, refinements to DAC and certain insurance-related liabilities that were recorded in both years resulted in a $14 million increase in operating earnings. Our 2014 results for Korea decreased $5 million as a result of unfavorable claims experience, primarily in our life business, and regulatory changes.  
    109 

     Table of Contents  

   Our 2014 results include a $9 million tax benefit related to U.S. taxation of dividends from Japan and a $4 million tax benefit resulting from a tax rate change in Japan. Our 2013 results include a $17 million tax benefit in Japan related to the estimated reversal of temporary differences and a one-time tax benefit of $10 million related to the disposal of our interest in a Korean asset management company at the beginning of 2013. 
  Year Ended December 31,   2013   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2012    
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. 
  Operating earnings increased by $207 million over 2012. The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced operating earnings by $55 million for 2013 as compared to 2012 and resulted in significant variances in the financial statement line items. 
  Asia s premiums and fee income increased over 2012 primarily driven by broad based in-force growth across the region, including growth of ordinary life and accident   health products in Japan, group insurance in Australia, and growth of ordinary life products in Korea and India. Higher surrenders of fixed annuity products in Japan, driven by market conditions, also contributed to higher fee income, higher DAC amortization and a decrease in interest credited to policyholders as surrenders exceeded new business volume. Changes in premiums for these businesses were offset by related changes in policyholder benefits. Positive net flows in Japan and Bangladesh resulted in an increase in average invested assets over 2012, generating an increase in net investment income. The combined impact of the items discussed above improved operating earnings by $113 million. 
  Investment yields increased from the continued repositioning of the Japan investment portfolio to higher yielding investments, higher prepayment fees and improved results from real estate joint ventures. This was partially offset by lower returns on other limited partnership interests. These improvements in investment yields, combined with the positive impact of foreign currency hedges, increased operating earnings by $92 million. 
  The combined impact of the 2013 and 2012 annual assumption updates resulted in a net operating earnings increase of $56 million. Also in 2013, as a result of a review of our own recent claims experience, and in consideration of the worsening trend for the industry in Australia, we strengthened our group total and permanent disability claim reserves in Australia, which reduced operating earnings by $57 million, net of reinsurance. 
  The 2013 results include a $17 million tax benefit recorded in Japan related to the reversal of temporary differences. The 2013 results also include a $10 million one-time tax benefit related to the release of certain reserves and the disposal of our interest in a Korea asset management company at the beginning of 2013. In addition, 2012 results include a one-time tax expense of $16 million, including the adjustment of net operating loss carryforwards in Hong Kong.  
    110 

       Table of Contents  

   EMEA 

Year Ended December 31,   2014   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2013 
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. 
  Operating earnings increased by $33 million over 2013. The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced operating earnings by $18 million for 2014 as compared to 2013. 
  In 2014, we converted to calendar year reporting for certain of our subsidiaries, which resulted in a $17 million increase to operating earnings. This was partially offset by a refinement in DAC in the U.K., which resulted in a $5 million decrease to operating earnings. Our 2013 results were negatively impacted as a result of a $30 million tax charge related to the write-off of a U.K. tax loss carryforward and by a $26 million write-down of DAC and VOBA related to pension reform in Poland. The Company received tax benefits in both years following its decision to permanently reinvest certain foreign earnings outside of the U.S., however, since the 2013 benefit was larger, operating earnings decreased by $18 million. In addition, our 2013 results benefited by $8 million due to liability refinements and a change in the local corporate tax rate in Greece.  
  On an annual basis, we review and update our long-term assumptions used in our calculations of certain insurance-related liabilities and DAC, which resulted in a net operating earnings increase of $6 million for 2014 as compared to 2013. The amortization, or release, of negative VOBA associated with the conversion of certain policies generally results in an increase in operating earnings. In 2014, the number of policies converted declined and so, relative to 2013, this reduced operating earnings by $11 million. 
  An increase in sales over 2013, primarily in the Middle East and central, eastern and southern Europe, was partially offset by the impact of regulatory changes in the U.K. Net investment income increased, driven by an increase in average invested assets from business growth in Egypt, the Persian Gulf and Russia, in addition to a slight increase in yields from the lengthening of the Ireland and Greece shorter-term portfolios into higher yielding longer duration fixed maturity securities. Our 2014 results also included certain legal and re-branding expenses, while operating earnings benefited as a result of a review of certain tax liabilities. The combined impact of the items discussed above increased operating earnings by $13 million. 
    111 

       Table of Contents  

   Year Ended December 31,   2013   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2012    
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. 
  Operating earnings increased by $58 million over 2012. The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates increased operating earnings by $7 million for 2013 as compared to 2012. The third quarter 2012 acquisition of life insurance businesses from the members of the Aviva Plc. group increased operating earnings by $14 million. This was offset by the disposal of certain blocks of business in the U.K. in the fourth quarter of 2012, which decreased operating earnings by $42 million. 
  Operating earnings decreased as a result of a $30 million tax charge in 2013 related to the write-off of a U.K. tax loss carryforward. Operating earnings were negatively impacted by a $26 million write-down of DAC and VOBA related to proposed pension reforms in Poland. In addition, 2012 results benefited by $12 million primarily due to a release of negative VOBA associated with the conversion of certain policies. These items were more than offset by a $79 million tax benefit following the Company s decision to permanently reinvest certain foreign earnings. In addition, operating earnings benefited from adjustments totaling $8 million in Greece for liability refinements in our ordinary and deferred annuity businesses, as well as the impact of a change in the local corporate tax rate, both in the first quarter of 2013.  
  Business growth was driven primarily by Russia, Egypt, Poland and the Persian Gulf, partially offset by management s decision to cease fixed annuity sales in the U.K. Operating expenses increased compared to 2012 including the effect of higher corporate allocations; however, this was offset by expense reduction initiatives primarily in France and Poland. The combined impact of the items discussed above increased operating earnings by $59 million. 
  An increase in average invested assets due to growth in Ireland, Russia, Egypt and Poland contributed to an increase in operating earnings of $9 million. Operating earnings decreased by $20 million reflecting lower investment yields on certain alternative asset classes, primarily in Greece, floating-rate securities, primarily in Ireland and Poland and the impact of a low rate environment on fixed-rate securities, primarily in Greece and Ukraine. 
  The 2013 and 2012 annual assumption updates resulted in a net operating earnings increase of $12 million, primarily related to assumption updates in the Persian Gulf and Greece. 
    Corporate   Other 

112 

     Table of Contents  

   The table below presents operating earnings available to common shareholders by source net of income tax: 

Year Ended December 31,   2014   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2013 
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. 
  Operating earnings available to common shareholders and operating earnings each decreased by $127 million, primarily due to lower net investment income and higher expenses related to corporate initiatives and projects, partially offset by higher incremental tax benefits.  
  Operating earnings from other business activities decreased by $15 million. Lower operating earnings from the assumed reinsurance from our former operating joint venture in Japan, primarily due to lower returns in 2014, were partially offset by higher operating earnings from start-up operations.  
  Other net investment income decreased by $112     million. This decrease was driven by an increase in the amount credited to the segments due to growth in the economic capital managed by Corporate   Other on their behalf, the adverse impact of the sustained low interest rate environment on yields from our fixed maturity securities and lower returns on real estate investments. These decreases were partially offset by improved returns on other limited partnership interests and higher mark-to-market income on residential mortgage loans carried at fair value. 
  Interest expense on debt increased by $12 million, mainly due to the issuance of $1.0 billion of senior notes in April 2014 and the recognition of issuance costs related to the early redemption of senior notes in May 2014. 
   Acquisition costs decreased by $13 million due to lower internal resource costs for associates committed to certain acquisition activities. 
  Expenses related to corporate initiatives and projects increased by $49 million, primarily due to higher relocation costs, severance and consulting expenses. These expenses include a $16 million decrease in restructuring charges, the majority of which related to severance. 
  Corporate   Other benefits from the impact of certain permanent tax differences, including non-taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in low income housing. As a result, our effective tax rate differs from the U.S. statutory rate of 35%. The tax benefit in 2014 included additional tax benefits of $36 million relating to the separate account dividends received deduction and a $16 million tax benefit related to the timing of certain tax credits. In addition, we received tax benefits of $32 million in 2014 and $10 million in 2013 related to the filing of the Company s U.S. federal tax returns. These benefits were offset by an $18 million tax charge related to a portion of the aforementioned settlement of a licensing matter that was not deductible for income tax purposes. In addition, we had lower utilization of tax preferenced investments and other benefits which decreased our operating earnings by $5 million from 2013. 
  Our results for 2014 include charges totaling $57 million related to the settlement of a licensing matter with the Department of Financial Services and the District Attorney, New York County. In addition, we increased our litigation reserves related to asbestos more in 2014 than in 2013 resulting in a $16 million decline in operating earnings. This was partially offset by a $31 million decline in expenses which included decreases in interest on uncertain tax positions and an adjustment on certain reinsurance assets and liabilities. In addition, declines in employee-related costs and lower software amortization totaling $15 million, improved operating earnings. 
    113 

     Table of Contents  

   Year Ended December 31,   2013   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2012 
  Unless otherwise stated, all amounts discussed below are net of income tax. 
  Operating earnings from other business activities increased $16 million. This was due to higher operating earnings from the assumed reinsurance of certain variable annuity products from our former operating joint venture in Japan, partially offset by losses from start-up operations. The increase in operating earnings was primarily due to higher returns in 2013 and reserve assumption updates in 2012.  
  Other net investment income decreased $183 million, excluding the FHLB advances and the divested MetLife Bank operations. This decrease was driven by an increase in the amount credited to the segments due to growth in the economic capital managed by Corporate   Other on their behalf and lower returns on our fixed maturity securities, real estate joint ventures and alternative investments, partially offset by higher income on our credit derivatives and real estate investments. 
  Operating earnings on invested assets that were funded using FHLB advances decreased $10 million, reflected by decreases in net investment income and interest expense on debt, due to the transfer of $3.8 billion of FHLB advances and underlying assets from MetLife Bank to Corporate Benefit Funding in April 2012. 
  Acquisition costs in 2013 include $19 million of lower internal resource costs for associates committed to certain acquisition activities. Expenses associated with corporate initiatives and projects increased $20 million, primarily due to a $13 million increase in expenses associated with the Company s enterprise-wide strategic initiative, which includes a $29 million decrease in the portion that represents restructuring charges, the majority of which related to severance. We also incurred $7 million in additional costs related to regulatory requirements for bank holding companies. 
  In 2013, we benefited from the impact of certain permanent tax differences, primarily higher utilization of tax preferenced investments, which improved operating earnings by $68 million from 2012. 
  Our results for 2013 include a $101 million accrual to increase the litigation reserve related to asbestos and $24 million of higher costs associated with interest on uncertain tax positions. In addition, in 2012, the Company benefited from the positive resolution of certain legal matters totaling $16 million and from a release of rental liability of $15 million. Partially offsetting these decreases in operating earnings was a 2012 charge of $26 million, representing a multi-state examination payment related to unclaimed property and MetLife s use of the U.S. Social Security Administration s Death Master File. 
    Effects of Inflation 
  Management believes that inflation has not had a material effect on the Company s consolidated results of operations, except insofar as inflation may affect interest rates. 
  An increase in inflation could affect our business in several ways. During inflationary periods, the value of fixed income investments falls which could increase realized and unrealized losses. Inflation also increases expenses for labor and other materials, potentially putting pressure on profitability if such costs cannot be passed through in our product prices. Inflation could also lead to increased costs for losses and loss adjustment expenses in certain of our businesses, which could require us to adjust our pricing to reflect our expectations for future inflation. Prolonged and elevated inflation could adversely affect the financial markets and the economy generally, and dispelling it may require governments to pursue a restrictive fiscal and monetary policy, which could constrain overall economic activity, inhibit revenue growth and reduce the number of attractive investment opportunities. 
    114 

       Table of Contents  

   Investments 
  Investment Risks 
  Our primary investment objective is to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The Investments Department, led by the Chief Investment Officer, manages investment risks using a risk control framework comprised of policies, procedures and limits, as discussed further below. The Investments Risk Committee, chaired by GRM, reviews and monitors investment risk limits and tolerances. We are exposed to the following primary sources of investment risks: 
             
    credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; 
                
    interest rate risk, relating to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in market interest rates. Changes in market interest rates will impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of our fixed income investment portfolio and the rates of return we receive on both new funds invested and reinvestment of existing funds; 
                
    liquidity risk, relating to the diminished ability to sell certain investments, in times of strained market conditions; 
                
    market valuation risk, relating to the variability in the estimated fair value of investments associated with changes in market factors such as credit spreads. A widening of credit spreads will adversely impact the net unrealized gain (loss) position of the fixed income investment portfolio, will increase losses associated with credit-based non-qualifying derivatives where we assume credit exposure, and, if credit spreads widen significantly or for an extended period of time, will likely result in higher OTTI. Credit spread tightening will reduce net investment income associated with purchases of fixed maturity securities and will favorably impact the net unrealized gain (loss) position of the fixed income investment portfolio; 
                
    currency risk, relating to the variability in currency exchange rates for foreign denominated investments. This risk relates to potential decreases in estimated fair value and net investment income resulting from changes in currency exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar. In general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our foreign denominated investments; and 
                
    real estate risk, relating to commercial, agricultural and residential real estate, and stemming from factors, which include, but are not limited to, market conditions, including the demand and supply of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets volatility and the inherent interest rate movement. 
     We manage investment risk through in-house fundamental credit analysis of the underlying obligors, issuers, transaction structures and real estate properties. We also manage credit risk, market valuation risk and liquidity risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset allocation. Risk limits to promote diversification by asset sector, avoid concentrations in any single issuer and limit overall aggregate credit exposure as measured by our economic capital framework are approved annually by a committee of directors that oversees our investment portfolio. For real estate assets, we manage credit risk and market valuation risk through geographic, property type and product type diversification and asset allocation. We manage interest rate risk as part of our ALM strategies. These strategies include maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile, and utilizing product design, such as the use of market value adjustment features and surrender charges, to manage interest rate risk. We also manage interest rate risk through proactive monitoring and management of certain non-guaranteed elements of our products, such as the resetting of credited interest and dividend rates for policies that permit such adjustments. In addition to hedging with foreign currency derivatives, we manage currency risk by matching much of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing our risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. We also use certain derivatives in the management of credit, interest rate, and equity market risks. 
  We use purchased credit default swaps to mitigate credit risk in our investment portfolio. Generally, we purchase credit protection by entering into credit default swaps referencing the issuers of specific assets we own. In certain cases, basis risk exists between these credit default swaps and the specific assets we own. For example, we may purchase credit protection on a macro basis to reduce exposure to specific industries or other portfolio concentrations. In such instances, the referenced entities and obligations under the credit default swaps may not be identical to the individual obligors or securities in our investment portfolio. In addition, our purchased credit default swaps may have shorter tenors than the underlying investments they are hedging. However, we dynamically hedge this risk through the rebalancing and rollover of its credit default swaps at their most liquid tenors. We believe that our purchased credit default swaps serve as effective economic hedges of our credit exposure. 
    115 

       Table of Contents  

   We generally enter into market standard purchased and written credit default swap contracts. Payout under such contracts is triggered by certain credit events experienced by the referenced entities. For credit default swaps covering North American corporate issuers, credit events typically include bankruptcy and failure to pay on borrowed money. For European corporate issuers, credit events typically also include involuntary restructuring, and may include governmental intervention. With respect to credit default contracts on Western European sovereign debt, credit events typically include failure to pay debt obligations, repudiation, moratorium, or involuntary restructuring. In each case, payout on a credit default swap is triggered only after the Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association deems that a credit event has occurred. 
  Current Environment 
  The global economy and markets continue to be affected by stress and volatility, which has adversely affected the financial services sector, in particular, and global capital markets. Recently, concerns about the political and economic stability of countries in regions outside the EU, including Ukraine, Russia, Argentina and the Middle East, have contributed to global market volatility. As a global insurance company, we are also affected by the monetary policy of central banks around the world. Financial markets have also been affected by concerns over the direction of U.S. fiscal policy, although these concerns have abated since late 2013. See    Industry Trends   Financial and Economic Environment.  The Federal Reserve Board has taken a number of policy actions in recent years to spur economic activity, by keeping interest rates low and through its asset purchase programs. See    Industry Trends   Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment.  The ECB has also recently adopted an array of stimulus measures, including an expanded asset purchase program and a negative rate on bank deposits, which are intended to lessen the risk of a prolonged period of deflation and support economic recovery in the Euro zone. See    Industry Trends   Financial and Economic Environment  for further information on such measures, as well as for information regarding actions taken by central banks around the world to support the economic recovery, including actions taken by Japan s central government and the Bank of Japan to boost inflation expectations and achieve sustainable economic growth in Japan. The Federal Reserve may take further actions to influence interest rates in the future, which may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments and may adversely impact the level of product sales. 
  European Region Investments 
  Excluding Europe s perimeter region and Cyprus which are discussed below, our holdings of sovereign debt, corporate debt and perpetual hybrid securities in certain EU member states and other countries in the region that are not members of the EU (collectively, the  European Region ) were concentrated in the U.K., Germany, France, the Netherlands, Poland, Norway and Sweden. The sovereign debt of these countries continues to maintain investment grade credit ratings from all major rating agencies. We maintain general account investments in the European Region to support our insurance operations and related policyholder liabilities in these countries and certain of our non-European Region operations invest in the European Region for diversification. In the European Region, we have proactively mitigated risk in both direct and indirect exposures by investing in a diversified portfolio of high quality investments with a focus on the higher-rated countries. Sovereign debt issued by countries outside of Europe s perimeter region and Cyprus comprised   $8.1 billion  , or   99%   of our European Region sovereign fixed maturity securities, at estimated fair value, at December 31,   2014  . The European Region corporate securities (fixed maturity and perpetual hybrid securities classified as non-redeemable preferred stock) are invested in a diversified portfolio of primarily non-financial services securities, which comprised   $22.3 billion  , or   72%   of European Region total corporate securities, at estimated fair value, at December 31,   2014  . Of these European Region sovereign fixed maturity and corporate securities,   92%   were investment grade and, for the   8%   that were below investment grade, the majority were non-financial services corporate securities at December 31,   2014  . European Region financial services corporate securities, at estimated fair value, were   $8.9 billion  , including   $6.4 billion   within the banking sector, with   96%   invested in investment grade rated corporate securities, at December 31,   2014  . 
  Selected Country and Sector Investments 
  Concerns about the economic conditions, capital markets and the solvency of certain EU member states, including Europe s perimeter region and Cyprus, and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries, have been a cause of elevated levels of market volatility, and has affected the performance of various asset classes in recent years. More recently, economic conditions in Europe s perimeter region seem to be stabilizing or improving, as evidenced by the stabilization of credit ratings, particularly in Spain, Portugal and Ireland. This, combined with greater ECB support and gradually improving macroeconomic conditions at the country level, has reduced the risk of default on the sovereign debt of certain countries in Europe s perimeter region and Cyprus and, with the exception of Greece, the risk of possible withdrawal of one or more countries from the Euro zone. See    Industry Trends   Financial and Economic Environment.  
  In addition to Europe s perimeter region and Cyprus, other countries, including Ukraine, Russia and Argentina, have experienced market volatility due to economic and/or political concerns. We maintain general account investments in these countries to support our insurance operations and related policyholder liabilities in these countries.  
    116 

       Table of Contents  

   There also has been an increased focus on energy sector investments as a result of declining oil prices. Our net exposure to energy sector fixed maturity securities was $15.3 billion (inclusive of net written credit default swaps with a notional value of $285 million), of which 84% were investment grade, with an unrealized gain of $1.1 billion at December 31, 2014. 
  We manage direct and indirect investment exposure in both countries and sectors through fundamental credit analysis and we continually monitor and adjust our level of investment exposure in response to current market conditions. We do not expect such general account investments to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 
  The following table presents, by country, a summary of fixed maturity securities in these selected countries. The Company has written credit default swaps where the underlying is an index comprised of companies across various sectors in the European Region. At December 31,   2014  , the written credit default swaps exposure to Europe s perimeter region and Cyprus was   $119 million   in notional amount and   $1 million   in estimated fair value. The information below is presented on a country of risk basis (e.g. the country where the issuer primarily conducts business). 

______________ 
   Current Environment - Summary 
  All of these factors have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on the financial results of companies in the financial services industry, including MetLife. Such global economic conditions, as well as the global financial markets, continue to impact our net investment income, net investment gains (losses), net derivative gains (losses), and level of unrealized gains (losses) within the various asset classes in our investment portfolio, as well as our level of investment in lower yielding cash equivalents and short-term investments and government securities. See    Industry Trends  and  Risk Factors   Economic Environment and Capital Markets-Related Risks   We Are Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risks Which May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Liquidity, and May Cause Our Net Investment Income to Vary from Period to Period.  
    117 

       Table of Contents  

   Investment Portfolio Results 
  The following yield table presents the yield and investment income (loss) for our investment portfolio for the periods indicated. As described in the footnotes below, this table reflects certain differences from the presentation of net investment income presented in the GAAP consolidated statements of operations. This yield table presentation is consistent with how we measure our investment performance for management purposes, and we believe it enhances understanding of our investment portfolio results. 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Yields are calculated as investment income as a percent of average quarterly asset carrying values. Investment income excludes recognized gains and losses and reflects GAAP adjustments presented in footnote (6) below. Asset carrying values exclude unrealized gains (losses), collateral received in connection with our securities lending program, freestanding derivative assets, collateral received from derivative counterparties, the effects of consolidating certain variable interest entities ( VIEs ) under GAAP that are treated as consolidated securitization entities ( CSEs ), contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and securitized reverse residential mortgage loans. A yield is not presented for other invested assets as it is not considered a meaningful measure of performance for this asset class. 
               (3) 
    Investment income from fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans includes prepayment fees. 
              (4) 
    Yield calculations include the net investment income and ending carrying values of the divested businesses. The net investment income adjustment for the divested businesses for the years ended December 31,     2014  ,     2013     and     2012     was     $72 million  , $197 million and $336 million, respectively. The net investment income adjustment includes scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting adjustment that are excluded in the scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting line in the GAAP net investment income reconciliation presented below. The scheduled periodic settlement payments excluded were     $1 million  , $10 million and $16 million for the years ended December 31,     2014  ,     2013  , and     2012  , respectively.     For the year ended December 31,   2012  , the net investment income adjustment for divested businesses of $336 million excluded $177 million of securitized reverse residential mortgage loans that were included in the divested businesses adjustment of $513 million presented below. 
              (5) 
    In the first quarter of 2014, MetLife, Inc. began reporting the operations of MAL as divested business. As a result, certain amounts in the prior periods have been reclassified to conform with the current period segment presentation. See    Executive Summary.  
       118 

       Table of Contents  

            (6) 
    Net investment income presented in the yield table varies from the most directly comparable GAAP measure due to certain reclassifications and excludes the effects of consolidating certain VIEs under GAAP that are treated as CSEs and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments. Such reclassifications are presented in the table below. 

See    Results of Operations   Consolidated Results   Year Ended December 31,   2014   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2013    and    Results of Operations   Consolidated Results  Year Ended December 31,   2013   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2012  ,  for an analysis of the year over year changes in net investment income. 
  Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available-for-Sale 
  Fixed maturity securities AFS, which consisted principally of publicly-traded and privately-placed fixed maturity securities and redeemable preferred stock, were   $365.4 billion   and   $350.2 billion  , at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, or   71%   of total cash and invested assets at both December 31,   2014   and   2013  . Publicly-traded fixed maturity securities represented   $315.2 billion   and   $302.3   billion, at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, or   86%   of total fixed maturity securities at both December 31,   2014   and   2013  . Privately-placed fixed maturity securities represented   $50.2 billion   and   $47.9 billion  , at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, or   14%   of total fixed maturity securities at both December 31,   2014   and   2013  . 
  Equity securities AFS, which consisted principally of publicly-traded and privately-held common and non-redeemable preferred stock, including certain perpetual hybrid securities and mutual fund interests, were   $3.6 billion   and   $3.4 billion  , at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, or   0.7%   of total cash and invested assets at both December 31,   2014   and   2013  . Publicly-traded equity securities represented   $2.5 billion   and   $2.4 billion  , at estimated fair value, or   69%   and   71%   of total equity securities, at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Privately-held equity securities represented   $1.1 billion   and   $1.0 billion  , at estimated fair value, or   31%   and   29%   of total equity securities, at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  Included within fixed maturity and equity securities were   $1.0 billion   and   $1.1 billion   of perpetual securities, at estimated fair value, at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Upon acquisition, we classify perpetual securities that have attributes of both debt and equity as fixed maturity securities if the securities have an interest rate step-up feature which, when combined with other qualitative factors, indicates that the securities have more debt-like characteristics; while those with more equity-like characteristics are classified as equity securities. Many of such securities, commonly referred to as  perpetual hybrid securities  have been issued by non-U.S. financial institutions that are accorded the highest two capital treatment categories by their respective regulatory bodies (i.e. core capital, or  Tier 1 capital  and perpetual deferrable securities, or  Upper Tier 2 capital ). 
  Included within fixed maturity securities were   $1.3 billion   and   $1.5 billion   of redeemable preferred stock with a stated maturity, at estimated fair value, at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. These securities, which are commonly referred to as  capital securities,  primarily have cumulative interest deferral features and are primarily issued by U.S. financial institutions. 
    119 

       Table of Contents  

   Valuation of Securities.   We are responsible for the determination of estimated fair value of our investments. We determine the estimated fair value of publicly-traded securities after considering one of three primary sources of information: quoted market prices in active markets, independent pricing services, or independent broker quotations. We determine the estimated fair value of privately-placed securities after considering one of three primary sources of information: market standard internal matrix pricing, market standard internal discounted cash flow techniques, or independent pricing services (after we determine the independent pricing services  use of available observable market data). For publicly-traded securities, the number of quotations obtained varies by instrument and depends on the liquidity of the particular instrument. Generally, we obtain prices from multiple pricing services to cover all asset classes and obtain multiple prices for certain securities, but ultimately utilize the price with the highest placement in the fair value hierarchy. Independent pricing services that value these instruments use market standard valuation methodologies based on data about market transactions and inputs from multiple pricing sources that are market observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. See Note   10   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the types of market standard valuation methodologies utilized and key assumptions and observable inputs used in applying these standard valuation methodologies. When a price is not available in the active market or through an independent pricing service, management values the security primarily using market standard internal matrix pricing or discounted cash flow techniques, and non-binding quotations from independent brokers who are knowledgeable about these securities. Independent non-binding broker quotations utilize inputs that may be difficult to corroborate with observable market data. As shown in the following section, less than   1%   of our fixed maturity securities were valued using non-binding quotations from independent brokers at December 31,   2014  . 
  Senior management, independent of the trading and investing functions, is responsible for the oversight of control systems and valuation policies, including reviewing and approving new transaction types and markets, for ensuring that observable market prices and market-based parameters are used for valuation, wherever possible, and for determining that valuation adjustments, when applied, are based upon established policies and are applied consistently over time. We review our valuation methodologies on an ongoing basis and revise when necessary based on changing market conditions. We gain assurance on the overall reasonableness and consistent application of input assumptions, valuation methodologies and compliance with accounting standards for fair value determination through our controls designed to ensure that the financial assets and financial liabilities are appropriately valued and represent an exit price. We utilize several controls, including certain monthly controls, which include, but are not limited to, analysis of portfolio returns to corresponding benchmark returns, comparing a sample of executed prices of securities sold to the fair value estimates, comparing fair value estimates to management s knowledge of the current market, reviewing the bid/ask spreads to assess activity, comparing prices from multiple pricing sources, when available, reviewing independent auditor reports regarding the controls over valuation of securities employed by independent pricing services, and ongoing due diligence to confirm that independent pricing services use market-based parameters for valuation. We determine the observability of inputs used in estimated fair values received from independent pricing services or brokers by assessing whether these inputs can be corroborated by observable market data. 
  We also apply a formal process to challenge any prices received from independent pricing services that are not considered representative of estimated fair value. If we conclude that prices received from independent pricing services are not reflective of market activity or representative of estimated fair value, we will seek independent non-binding broker quotes or use an internally developed valuation to override these prices. Our internally developed valuations of current estimated fair value, which reflect our estimates of liquidity and nonperformance risks, compared with pricing received from the independent pricing services, did not produce material differences for the vast majority of our fixed maturity securities portfolio. This is, in part, because our internal estimates of liquidity and nonperformance risks are generally based on available market evidence and estimates used by other market participants. In the absence of such market-based evidence, management s best estimate is used. As a result, we generally use the price provided by the independent pricing service under our normal pricing protocol. 
  We have reviewed the significance and observability of inputs used in the valuation methodologies to determine the appropriate fair value hierarchy level for each of our securities. Based on the results of this review and investment class analysis, each instrument is categorized as Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the lowest level significant input to its valuation. See Note   10   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the valuation techniques and inputs by level within the three level fair value hierarchy by major classes of invested assets. 
    120 

       Table of Contents  

   Fair Value of Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities   AFS  
  Fixed maturity and equity securities AFS measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value pricing sources are as follows: 

See Note   10   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the fixed maturity securities and equity securities AFS fair value hierarchy. 
  The composition of fair value pricing sources for and significant changes in Level 3 securities at December 31,   2014   are as follows: 
             
    The majority of the Level 3 fixed maturity and equity securities AFS were concentrated in four sectors: U.S. and foreign corporate securities, residential mortgage-backed securities ( RMBS ), and asset-backed securities ( ABS ). 
                
    Level 3 fixed maturity securities are priced principally through market standard valuation methodologies, independent pricing services and, to a much lesser extent, independent non-binding broker quotations using inputs that are not market observable or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 fixed maturity securities consist of less liquid securities with very limited trading activity or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation methodologies. Level 3 fixed maturity securities include: sub-prime RMBS; certain below investment grade private securities and less liquid investment grade corporate securities (included in U.S. and foreign corporate securities); less liquid ABS and foreign government securities. 
                
    During the year ended December 31,   2014  , Level 3 fixed maturity securities decreased by   $2.2 billion   or   9%  . The decrease was driven by net transfers out of Level 3, partially offset by purchases in excess of sales and an increase in estimated fair value recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) ( OCI ). The net transfers out of Level 3 of fixed maturity securities were concentrated in ABS, U.S. and foreign corporate securities, and foreign government securities. The purchases in excess of sales were concentrated in RMBS, U.S. and foreign corporate securities, and ABS, and the increase in estimated fair value recognized in OCI for fixed maturity securities was concentrated in U.S. corporate securities. 
     See Note   10   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a rollforward of the fair value measurements for fixed maturity securities and equity securities AFS measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs; analysis of transfers into and/or out of Level 3; and further information about the valuation techniques and inputs by level by major classes of invested assets that affect the amounts reported above.  
  Fixed Maturity Securities AFS  
  See Notes   1   and   8   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about fixed maturity securities AFS. 
    121 

       Table of Contents  

   Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality   Ratings  
  The Securities Valuation Office of the NAIC evaluates the fixed maturity security investments of insurers for regulatory reporting and capital assessment purposes and assigns securities to one of six credit quality categories called  NAIC designations.  If no designation is available from the NAIC, then, as permitted by the NAIC, an internally developed designation is used. The NAIC designations are generally similar to the credit quality ratings of the NRSRO for fixed maturity securities, except for certain structured securities as described below. Rating agency ratings are based on availability of applicable ratings from rating agencies on the NAIC credit rating provider list, including Moody s, S P, Fitch, Dominion Bond Rating Service, A.M. Best, Kroll Bond Rating Agency, Egan Jones Ratings Company and Morningstar, Inc. ( Morningstar ). If no rating is available from a rating agency, then an internally developed rating is used. 
  The NAIC has adopted revised methodologies for certain structured securities comprised of non-agency RMBS, commercial mortgage-backed securities ( CMBS ) and ABS. The NAIC s objective with the revised methodologies for these structured securities was to increase the accuracy in assessing expected losses, and to use the improved assessment to determine a more appropriate capital requirement for such structured securities. The revised methodologies reduce regulatory reliance on rating agencies and allow for greater regulatory input into the assumptions used to estimate expected losses from structured securities. We apply the revised NAIC methodologies to structured securities held by MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries that maintain the NAIC statutory basis of accounting. The NAIC s present methodology is to evaluate structured securities held by insurers using the revised NAIC methodologies on an annual basis. If our insurance subsidiaries acquire structured securities that have not been previously evaluated by the NAIC, but are expected to be evaluated by the NAIC in the upcoming annual review, an internally developed designation is used until a final designation becomes available. 
  The following table presents total fixed maturity securities by NRSRO rating and the equivalent designations of the NAIC, except for certain structured securities, which are presented using the revised NAIC methodologies as described above, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value that each designation is comprised of at: 

122 

       Table of Contents  

   The following tables present total fixed maturity securities, based on estimated fair value, by sector classification and by NRSRO rating and the equivalent designations of the NAIC, except for certain structured securities, which are presented using the NAIC methodologies as described above: 

123 

       Table of Contents  

   U.S. and Foreign Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities 
   We maintain a diversified portfolio of corporate fixed maturity securities across industries and issuers. This portfolio does not have any exposure to any single issuer in excess of   1%   of total investments and the top ten holdings comprise   2%   of total investments at both December 31,   2014   and   2013  . The tables below present our U.S. and foreign corporate securities holdings at: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Includes both U.S. dollar and foreign denominated securities. 
     Structured Securities  
   We held   $68.4 billion   and   $67.2 billion   of structured securities, at estimated fair value, at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively, as presented in the RMBS, CMBS and ABS sections below. 
  RMBS  
  The table below presents our RMBS holdings at: 

124 

       Table of Contents  

   Collateralized mortgage obligations are structured by dividing the cash flows of mortgages into separate pools or tranches of risk that create multiple classes of bonds with varying maturities and priority of payments. Pass-through mortgage-backed securities are secured by a mortgage or collection of mortgages. The monthly mortgage payments from homeowners pass from the originating bank through an intermediary, such as a government agency or investment bank, which collects the payments and, for a fee, remits or passes these payments through to the holders of the pass-through securities. 
  The majority of our RMBS holdings were rated Aaa/AAA by Moody s, S P or Fitch; and were designated NAIC 1 by the NAIC at December 31,   2014   and   2013  . Agency RMBS were guaranteed or otherwise supported by Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation or Government National Mortgage Association. Non-agency RMBS include prime, alternative residential mortgage loans ( Alt-A ) and sub-prime RMBS. Prime residential mortgage lending includes the origination of residential mortgage loans to the most creditworthy borrowers with high quality credit profiles. Alt-A is a classification of mortgage loans where the risk profile of the borrower falls between prime and sub-prime. Sub-prime mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to borrowers with weak credit profiles.  
  Included within prime and Alt-A RMBS are re-securitization of real estate mortgage investment conduit ( Re-REMIC ) securities. Re-REMIC RMBS involve the pooling of previous issues of prime and Alt-A RMBS and restructuring the combined pools to create new senior and subordinated securities. The credit enhancement on the senior tranches is improved through the re-securitization. Our Alt-A RMBS portfolio has performed within our expectations and is comprised primarily of fixed rate mortgage loans (95% and 94% at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively) and has an insignificant amount of option adjustable rate mortgage loans.  
  Historically, we have managed our exposure to sub-prime RMBS holdings by: acquiring older vintage year securities that benefit from better underwriting, improved credit enhancement and higher levels of residential property price appreciation; reducing our overall exposure; stress testing the portfolio with severe loss assumptions; and closely monitoring the performance of the portfolio. Since 2012, we have increased our exposure by purchasing sub-prime RMBS at significant discounts to the expected principal recovery value of these securities. The estimated fair value of our sub-prime RMBS purchased since 2012 was $3.9 billion and $2.5 billion with unrealized gains of   $130 million   and   $96 million   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively, and they are performing within our expectations. 
  CMBS  
  Our CMBS holdings are diversified by vintage year. The following tables present our CMBS holdings by rating agency rating and by vintage year at: 

125 

       Table of Contents  

The tables above reflect ratings assigned by NRSROs including Moody s, S P, Fitch and Morningstar. CMBS designated NAIC 1 were   98.5%   and   99.1%   of total CMBS at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  ABS  
  Our ABS are diversified both by collateral type and by issuer. The following table presents our ABS holdings at: 

Evaluation of AFS Securities for OTTI and Evaluating Temporarily Impaired AFS Securities 
  See Notes 1 and 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the evaluation of fixed maturity securities and equity securities AFS for OTTI and evaluation of temporarily impaired AFS securities. 
  OTTI Losses on Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities AFS Recognized in Earnings 
  See Note   8   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about OTTI losses and gross gains and gross losses on AFS securities sold. 
  Overview of Fixed Maturity and Equity Security OTTI Losses Recognized in Earnings 
  Impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities were   $96 million  ,   $192 million   and   $351 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. Impairments of fixed maturity securities were   $60 million  ,   $166 million   and   $317 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. Impairments of equity securities were   $36 million  ,   $26 million   and   $34 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
    126 

       Table of Contents  

   Credit-related impairments of fixed maturity securities were   $60 million  ,   $147 million   and   $223 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
  Explanations of changes in fixed maturity and equity securities impairments are as follows: 
  Year Ended December 31,   2014   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2013 
  Overall OTTI losses recognized in earnings on fixed maturity and equity securities were   $96 million   for the year ended December 31,   2014   as compared to   $192 million   for the year ended December 31,   2013  . The most significant decreases were in U.S. and foreign corporate securities and RMBS, which comprised   $40 million   for the year ended December 31, 2014, as compared to   $154 million   for the year ended December 31, 2013. A decrease of   $65 million   in OTTI losses on U.S. and foreign corporate securities and a   $49 million   decrease in OTTI losses on RMBS reflected improving economic fundamentals. The   $65 million   decrease in OTTI losses on U.S. and foreign corporate securities was concentrated in the utility and financial services industries. 
  Year Ended December 31,   2013   Compared with the Year Ended December 31,   2012 
  Overall OTTI losses recognized in earnings on fixed maturity and equity securities were   $192 million   for the year ended December 31,   2013   as compared to   $351 million   for the year ended December 31,   2012  . The most significant decreases were in U.S. and foreign corporate securities and CMBS, which comprised $86 million for the year ended December 31,   2013  , as compared to   $210 million   for the year ended December 31,   2012  . A decrease of   $85 million   in OTTI losses on U.S and foreign corporate securities was concentrated in financial services, communications, transportation and utility industries and was primarily attributable to intent-to-sell impairments in   2012  , while a   $39 million   decrease in OTTI losses on CMBS reflected improving economic fundamentals. 
  Future Impairments 
  Future OTTI will depend primarily on economic fundamentals, issuer performance (including changes in the present value of future cash flows expected to be collected), and changes in credit ratings, collateral valuation, interest rates and credit spreads. If economic fundamentals deteriorate or if there are adverse changes in the above factors, OTTI may be incurred in upcoming periods. 
  FVO and Trading Securities 
  FVO and trading securities are primarily comprised of securities for which the FVO has been elected ( FVO Securities ). FVO Securities include certain fixed maturity and equity securities held-for-investment by the general account to support ALM strategies for certain insurance products and investments in certain separate accounts. FVO Securities are primarily comprised of contractholder-directed investments supporting unit-linked variable annuity type liabilities which do not qualify for presentation as separate account summary total assets and liabilities. These investments are primarily mutual funds and, to a lesser extent, fixed maturity and equity securities, short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents. The investment returns on these investments inure to contractholders and are offset by a corresponding change in PABs through interest credited to policyholder account balances. FVO Securities also include securities held by CSEs. We have a trading securities portfolio, principally invested in fixed maturity securities, to support investment strategies that involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of actively traded securities and the execution of short sale agreements. FVO and trading securities were   $16.7 billion   and   $17.4 billion   at estimated fair value, or   3.2%   and   3.5%   of total cash and invested assets, at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. See Note   10   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the FVO and trading securities fair value hierarchy and a rollforward of the fair value measurements for FVO and trading securities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs. 
  Securities Lending 
  We participate in a securities lending program whereby securities are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. We obtain collateral, usually cash, in an amount generally equal to 102% of the estimated fair value of the securities loaned, which is obtained at the inception of a loan and maintained at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the duration of the loan. Securities loaned under such transactions may be sold or re-pledged by the transferee. We are liable to return to our counterparties the cash collateral under our control. These transactions are treated as financing arrangements and the associated cash collateral liability is recorded at the amount of the cash received. 
  See    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Securities Lending  and Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for financial information regarding our securities lending program. 
    127 

       Table of Contents  

   Mortgage Loans 
  Our mortgage loans held-for-investment are principally collateralized by commercial real estate, agricultural real estate and residential properties. Mortgage loans held-for-investment and related valuation allowances are summarized as follows at: 

The information presented in the tables herein exclude mortgage loans held-for-investment where we elected the FVO and mortgage loans held-for-sale. Such amounts are presented in Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  We originated   $11.1 billion   and   $10.5 billion   of commercial mortgage loans during the years ended December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. We originated   $3.5 billion   and   $3.3 billion   of agricultural mortgage loans during the years ended December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. While we originate some residential mortgage loans, a substantial amount of residential mortgage loans acquired during the years ended   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , was purchased on the secondary market. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on mortgage loan purchases.  
  We diversify our mortgage loan portfolio by both geographic region and property type to reduce the risk of concentration. Of our mortgage loan portfolios,   85%   are collateralized by properties located in the U.S., with the remaining   15%   collateralized by properties located outside the U.S., calculated as a percent of the total mortgage loans held-for-investment, as presented above, at December 31,   2014  . The carrying value of our mortgage loans located in California, New York and Texas were   20%  ,   11%   and   7%  , respectively, of total mortgage loans held-for-investment, as presented above, at December 31,   2014  . Additionally, we manage risk when originating commercial and agricultural mortgage loans by generally lending up to 75% of the estimated fair value of the underlying real estate collateral. 
  Commercial Mortgage Loans by Geographic Region and Property Type.   Commercial mortgage loans are the largest component of the mortgage loan invested asset class, as such loans represented over 65% of total mortgage loans held-for-investment, as presented above, at both December 31,   2014   and   2013  . The tables below present the diversification across geographic regions and property types of commercial mortgage loans held-for-investment: 
    128 

       Table of Contents  

______________ 
  Mortgage Loan Credit Quality - Monitoring Process.   We monitor our mortgage loan investments on an ongoing basis, including reviewing loans that are current, past due, restructured and under foreclosure. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for tables that present mortgage loans by credit quality indicator, past due and nonaccrual mortgage loans, as well as impaired mortgage loans. See    Real Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures  for real estate acquired through foreclosure.  
  Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage Loans.   We review our commercial mortgage loans on an ongoing basis. These reviews may include an analysis of the property financial statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis, property inspections, market analysis, estimated valuations of the underlying collateral, loan-to-value ratios, debt service coverage ratios, and tenant creditworthiness. The monitoring process focuses on higher risk loans, which include those that are classified as restructured, delinquent or in foreclosure, as well as loans with higher loan-to-value ratios and lower debt service coverage ratios. The monitoring process for agricultural mortgage loans is generally similar, with a focus on higher risk loans, such as loans with higher loan-to-value ratios, including reviews on a geographic and sector basis. 
    129 

       Table of Contents  

   Loan-to-value ratios and debt service coverage ratios are common measures in the assessment of the quality of commercial mortgage loans. Loan-to-value ratios are a common measure in the assessment of the quality of agricultural mortgage loans. Loan-to-value ratios compare the amount of the loan to the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral. A loan-to-value ratio greater than 100% indicates that the loan amount is greater than the collateral value. A loan-to-value ratio of less than 100% indicates an excess of collateral value over the loan amount. Generally, the higher the loan-to-value ratio, the higher the risk of experiencing a credit loss. The debt service coverage ratio compares a property s net operating income to amounts needed to service the principal and interest due under the loan. Generally, the lower the debt service coverage ratio, the higher the risk of experiencing a credit loss. For our commercial mortgage loans, our average loan-to-value ratio was   52%   and   55%   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively, and our average debt service coverage ratio was   2.6x   and   2.4x   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. The commercial mortgage loan debt service coverage ratio and loan-to-value ratio, as well as the values utilized in calculating these ratios, are updated annually, on a rolling basis, with a portion of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio updated each quarter. For our agricultural mortgage loans, our average loan-to-value ratio was   44%   and   45%   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. The values utilized in calculating the agricultural mortgage loan loan-to-value ratio are developed in connection with the ongoing review of the agricultural loan portfolio and are routinely updated. 
  Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowances.   Our valuation allowances are established both on a loan specific basis for those loans considered impaired where a property specific or market specific risk has been identified that could likely result in a future loss, as well as for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics where a property specific or market specific risk has not been identified, but for which we expect to incur a loss. Accordingly, a valuation allowance is provided to absorb these estimated probable credit losses.  
  The determination of the amount of valuation allowances is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with our loan portfolios. Such evaluations and assessments are based upon several factors, including our experience for loan losses, defaults and loss severity, and loss expectations for loans with similar risk characteristics. These evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available, which can cause the valuation allowances to increase or decrease over time as such evaluations are revised. Negative credit migration, including an actual or expected increase in the level of problem loans, will result in an increase in the valuation allowance. Positive credit migration, including an actual or expected decrease in the level of problem loans, will result in a decrease in the valuation allowance.  
  See Notes 1, 8 and 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about how valuation allowances are established and monitored, activity in and balances of the valuation allowance, and the estimated fair value of impaired mortgage loans and related impairments included within net investment gains (losses) as of and for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  . 
  Real Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures 
  We diversify our real estate investments by both geographic region and property type to reduce risk of concentration. Of our real estate investments,   84%   were located in the United States, with the remaining   16%   located outside the United States, at December 31,   2014  . The carrying value of our real estate investments located in California, Japan and Florida were 19%, 13% and 9%, respectively, of total real estate investments at December 31, 2014.  
  Real estate investments by type consisted of the following at: 

130 

       Table of Contents  

   We classify within traditional real estate our investment in income-producing real estate, which is comprised primarily of wholly-owned real estate and, to a much lesser extent, joint ventures with interests in single property income-producing real estate. The estimated fair value of the traditional and held-for-sale real estate investment portfolios was   $13.3 billion   and   $12.5 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. We classify within real estate joint ventures and funds, our investments in joint ventures with interests in multi-property projects with varying strategies ranging from the development of properties to the operation of income-producing properties, as well as our investments in real estate private equity funds. From time to time, we transfer investments from these joint ventures to traditional real estate after the completed property commences operations and, if we intend to retain an interest in the property.  
  In connection with our investment management business, in the fourth quarter of 2013, we contributed real estate investments with an estimated fair value of   $1.4 billion   to the MetLife Core Property Fund, our newly formed open ended core real estate fund, in return for the issuance of ownership interests in that fund. As part of the initial closing on December 31,   2013  , we redeemed   76%   of our interest in this fund as new third party investors were admitted. The MetLife Core Property Fund was consolidated as of December 31,   2013  . However, as a result of our quarterly reassessment in the first quarter of   2014  , we no longer consolidate the MetLife Core Property Fund, effective March 31,   2014  . See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 
  Real estate and real estate joint venture investments by property type are categorized by sector as follows at: 

We committed to acquire interests in real estate property with a gross value of   $3.5 billion   and   $2.9 billion   for the years ended December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. The Company's authorized equity investment in such properties was   $1.7 billion   and   $1.9 billion   during the same periods, respectively. Impairments recognized on real estate and real estate joint ventures were   $20 million  ,   $10 million   and   $20 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. Depreciation expense on real estate investments was   $199 million  ,   $179 million   and   $168 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. Real estate investments are net of accumulated depreciation of   $1.2 billion   and   $1.3 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  Other Limited Partnership Interests 
  The carrying value of other limited partnership interests was   $8.1 billion   and   $7.4 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively, which included   $2.4 billion   and   $1.9 billion   of hedge funds, at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
    131 

       Table of Contents  

   Other Invested Assets 
  The following table presents the carrying value of our other invested assets by type: 

Leveraged lease impairments were   $80 million  ,   $26 million   and   $203 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.  
  See Notes   8   and   9   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding leveraged and direct financing leases and freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair values, respectively. Tax credit and renewable energy partnerships are established for the purpose of investing in low-income housing, other social causes and renewable energy generation facilities, where a significant source of the return on investment is in the form of income tax credits or other tax incentives, and are accounted for under the equity method or under the effective yield method. Funds withheld represent amounts contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. Operating joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method and represent our investment in insurance underwriting joint ventures. 
  Our private placement unit originated   $8.4 billion   and   $6.7 billion   of private investments, comprised primarily of certain privately placed fixed maturity securities, tax credit and renewable energy partnerships and lease investments, during the years ended December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. The carrying value of such private investments included within our consolidated balance sheets was   $51.9 billion   and   $50.6 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  Short-term Investments and Cash Equivalents 
  The carrying value of short-term investments, which approximates estimated fair value, was   $8.6 billion   and   $14.0 billion  , or   1.7%   and   2.8%   of total cash and invested assets, at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. The carrying value of cash equivalents, which approximates estimated fair value, was   $4.5 billion   and   $3.8 billion  , or   0.9%   and   0.8%   of total cash and invested assets, at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
    132 

       Table of Contents  

   Derivatives  
  Derivative Risks 
  We are exposed to various risks relating to our ongoing business operations, including interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, credit and equity market. We use a variety of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivatives. See Note   9   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for:    
             
    A comprehensive description of the nature of our derivatives, including the strategies for which derivatives are used in managing various risks. 
                
    Information about the gross notional amount, estimated fair value, and primary underlying risk exposure of our derivatives by type of hedge designation, excluding embedded derivatives held at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  . 
      See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   Management of Market Risk Exposures   Hedging Activities  for more information about our use of derivatives by major hedge program. 
  Fair Value Hierarchy 
  See Note   10   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy. 
  The valuation of Level 3 derivatives involves the use of significant unobservable inputs and generally requires a higher degree of management judgment or estimation than the valuations of Level 1 and Level 2 derivatives. Although Level 3 inputs are unobservable, management believes they are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing such instruments and are considered appropriate given the circumstances. The use of different inputs or methodologies could have a material effect on the estimated fair value of Level 3 derivatives and could materially affect net income. 
  Derivatives categorized as Level 3 at   December 31, 2014   include: interest rate forwards with maturities which extend beyond the observable portion of the yield curve; cancellable foreign currency swaps with unobservable currency correlation inputs; foreign currency swaps and forwards with certain unobservable inputs, including the unobservable portion of the yield curve; credit default swaps priced using unobservable credit spreads, or that are priced through independent broker quotations; equity variance swaps with unobservable volatility inputs; and equity index options with unobservable correlation inputs. At both   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , less than 1% of the net derivative estimated fair value was priced through independent broker quotations. 
  See Note   10   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a rollforward of the fair value measurements for derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs. 
  The gain (loss) on Level 3 derivatives primarily relates to certain purchased equity index options that are valued using models dependent on an unobservable market correlation input, equity variance swaps that are valued using observable equity volatility data plus an unobservable equity variance spread and foreign currency swaps and forwards that are valued using an unobservable portion of the swap yield curve. The unobservable equity variance spread is calculated from a comparison between broker offered equity variance swap volatility and observable equity index option volatility. Other significant inputs, which are observable, include equity index levels, equity volatility and the swap yield curve. We validate the reasonableness of these inputs by valuing the positions using internal models and comparing the results to broker quotations. 
    133 

       Table of Contents  

   The gain (loss) on Level 3 derivatives, percentage of gain (loss) attributable to observable and unobservable inputs, and the primary drivers of observable gain (loss) are summarized as follows:  

Year Ended December 31, 2014 
      Gain (loss) recognized in net income (loss)  
      
    ($83) million 
      Percentage of gain (loss) attributable to observable inputs 
      
    189% 
      Primary drivers of observable gain (loss) 
      
    Strengthening of U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies on receive foreign, pay-U.S. dollar forwards and swaps; decreases in equity volatility; partially offset by decreases in equity index levels; and decreases in long-term interest rates. 
      Percentage of gain (loss) attributable to unobservable inputs 
      
    (89)% 

See  Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Derivatives  for further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect derivatives. 
  Credit Risk 
  See Note   9   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about how we manage credit risk related to derivatives and for the estimated fair value of our net derivative assets and net derivative liabilities after the application of master netting agreements and collateral. 
  Our policy is not to offset the fair value amounts recognized for derivatives executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting agreement. This policy applies to the recognition of derivatives in the consolidated balance sheets, and does not affect our legal right of offset. 
  Credit Derivatives 
  The following table presents the gross notional amount and estimated fair value of credit default swaps at: 

__________________ 
      134 

       Table of Contents  

   The following table presents the gross gains, gross losses and net gain (losses) recognized in income for credit default swaps as follows:    

__________________ 
           (1) 
    Gains (losses) are reported in net derivative gains (losses), except for gains (losses) on the trading portfolio, which are reported in net investment income. 
              (2) 
    The gross gains and gross (losses) for purchased credit default swaps in the trading portfolio were $5 million and ($5) million, respectively, for the   year ended December 31, 2014   and $2 million and ($16) million, respectively, for the   year ended December 31, 2013  .  
              (3) 
    The gross gains and gross (losses) for written credit default swaps in the trading portfolio were not significant for the year ended December 31, 2014 and $1 million and $0, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2013.  
              (4) 
    Gains (losses) do not include earned income (expense) on credit default swaps. 
     The favorable change in net gains (losses) on purchased credit default swaps of $23 million was due to credit spreads widening in the current period as compared to credit spreads narrowing in the prior period on credit default swaps hedging certain bonds. The unfavorable change in net gains (losses) on written credit default swaps of ($110) million was due to certain credit spreads being mixed in the current period compared to credit spreads narrowing in the prior period on certain credit default swaps used as replications. 
  The maximum amount at risk related to our written credit default swaps is equal to the corresponding gross notional amount. The increase in the gross notional amount of written credit default swaps is primarily a result of our decision to add to our credit replication holdings within the Company. In a replication transaction, we pair an asset on our balance sheet with a written credit default swap to synthetically replicate a corporate bond, a core asset holding of life insurance companies. Replications are entered into in accordance with the guidelines approved by insurance regulators and are an important tool in managing the overall corporate credit risk within the Company. In order to match our long-dated insurance liabilities, we will seek to buy long-dated corporate bonds. In some instances, these may not be readily available in the market, or they may be issued by corporations to which we already have significant corporate credit exposure. For example, by purchasing Treasury bonds (or other high-quality assets) and associating them with written credit default swaps on the desired corporate credit name, we, at times, can replicate the desired bond exposures and meet our ALM needs. In addition, given the shorter tenor of the credit default swaps (generally five-year tenors) versus a long-dated corporate bond, we have more flexibility in managing our credit exposures.  
  Embedded Derivatives 
  See Note   10   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about embedded derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy. 
  See Note   10   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a rollforward of the fair value measurements for net embedded derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs. 
  See Note   9   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the nonperformance risk adjustment included in the valuation of guaranteed minimum benefits accounted for as embedded derivatives. 
  See  Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Derivatives  for further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect embedded derivatives. 
    135 

       Table of Contents  

   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  Credit and Committed Facilities 
  We maintain unsecured credit facilities and committed facilities with various financial institutions. See    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Global Funding Sources   Credit and Committed Facilities  for further descriptions of such arrangements. See also Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Global Funding Sources   Credit and Committed Facilities  for the classification of expenses on such credit and committed facilities and the nature of the associated liability for letters of credit issued and drawdowns on these credit and committed facilities. 
  Collateral for Securities Lending, Repurchase Program and Derivatives 
  We participate in a securities lending program in the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the total return on our investment portfolio. Periodically we receive non-cash collateral for securities lending from counterparties on deposit from customers, which cannot be sold or re-pledged, and which has not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. The amount of this collateral was $83 million at estimated fair value at December 31,   2014  . We had no such collateral as of December 31, 2013. See Notes   1   and   8   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as    Investments   Securities Lending  for discussion of our securities lending program, the classification of revenues and expenses, and the nature of the secured financing arrangement and associated liability. 
  We also participate in third-party custodian administered repurchase programs for the purpose of enhancing the total return on our investment portfolio. We loan certain of our fixed maturity securities to financial institutions and, in exchange, non-cash collateral is put on deposit by the financial institutions on our behalf with third-party custodians. The estimated fair value of securities loaned in connection with these transactions was $642 million and   $231 million   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Non-cash collateral on deposit with third-party custodians on our behalf was   $682 million   and   $256 million   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively, which cannot be sold or re-pledged, and which has not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. 
  We enter into derivatives to manage various risks relating to our ongoing business operations. We have non-cash collateral from counterparties for derivatives, which can be sold or re-pledged subject to certain constraints, and which has not been recorded on our consolidated balance sheets. The amount of this non-cash collateral was   $4.2 billion   and   $2.3 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. In certain instances, cash collateral pledged to the Company as initial margin for OTC-bilateral derivatives is held in separate custodial accounts and is not recorded on the Company s balance sheet because the account title is in the name of the counterparty (but segregated for the benefit of the Company). The amount of this cash collateral was   $263 million   and $0 at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. See    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Pledged Collateral  and  Derivatives  in Note   9   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the earned income on and the gross notional amount, estimated fair value of assets and liabilities and primary underlying risk exposure of our derivatives. 
  Lease Commitments 
  As lessee, we have entered into various lease and sublease agreements for office space, information technology and other equipment. Our commitments under such lease agreements are included within the contractual obligations table. See    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Contractual Obligations  and Note   21   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Guarantees 
  See  Guarantees  in Note   21   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Other 
  Additionally, we have the following commitments in the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the total return on our investment portfolio: mortgage loan commitments; and commitments to fund partnerships, bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. 
  See  Net Investment Income  and  Net Investment Gains (Losses)  in Note   8   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the investment income, investment expense, gains and losses from such investments. See also    Investments   Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Available-for-Sale  and    Investments   Mortgage Loans  for information on our investments in fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans. See    Investments   Real Estate and Real Estate Joint Ventures  and    Investments   Other Limited Partnership Interests  for information on our partnership investments.  
    136 

       Table of Contents  

   Other than the commitments disclosed in Note   21   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, there are no other material obligations or liabilities arising from the commitments to fund mortgage loans, partnerships, bank credit facilities, bridge loans, and private corporate bond investments. For further information on commitments to fund partnership investments, mortgage loans, bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. See    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company   Contractual Obligations.  
    Insolvency Assessments 
  See Note   21   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    Policyholder Liabilities 
  We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined amounts that are calculated to meet policy obligations or to provide for future annuity payments. Amounts for actuarial liabilities are computed and reported in the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For more details on Policyholder Liabilities, see    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates.  
  Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of actuarial liabilities, we cannot precisely determine the amounts that will ultimately be paid with respect to these actuarial liabilities, and the ultimate amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when payments may not occur until well into the future. 
  We periodically review our estimates of actuarial liabilities for future benefits and compare them with our actual experience. We revise estimates, to the extent permitted or required under GAAP, if we determine that future expected experience differs from assumptions used in the development of actuarial liabilities. We charge or credit changes in our liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are established or re-estimated. If the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. Such an increase could adversely affect our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  Insurance regulators in many of the non-U.S. countries in which we operate require certain MetLife entities to prepare a sufficiency analysis of the reserves presented in the locally required regulatory financial statements, and to submit that analysis to the regulatory authorities. See  Business   Regulation   International Regulation.  
  We have experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses and possibly acts of terrorism, as well as turbulent financial markets that may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing, severity or amount of losses from catastrophes and acts of terrorism, but we make broad use of catastrophic and non-catastrophic reinsurance to manage risk from these perils. 
  Future Policy Benefits 
  We establish liabilities for amounts payable under insurance policies. See Notes 1 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements,    Industry Trends   Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment   Interest Rate Stress Scenario  and    Variable Annuity Guarantees.  A discussion of future policy benefits by segment (as well as Corporate   Other) follows. 
  Retail 
  Future policy benefits for the life business are comprised mainly of liabilities for traditional life and for universal and variable life insurance contracts. In order to manage risk, we have often reinsured a portion of the mortality risk on life insurance policies. The reinsurance programs are routinely evaluated and this may result in increases or decreases to existing coverage. We have entered into various derivative positions, primarily interest rate swaps and swaptions, to mitigate the risk that investment of premiums received and reinvestment of maturing assets over the life of the policy will be at rates below those assumed in the original pricing of these contracts. For our property   casualty business, future policy benefits include unearned premium reserves and liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses and represent the amount estimated for claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported. For the annuities business, future policy benefits are comprised mainly of liabilities for life-contingent income annuities, and liabilities for the variable annuity guaranteed minimum benefits accounted for as insurance. 
    137 

     Table of Contents  

   Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits 
  With the exception of our property   casualty business, future policy benefits for our Group and Voluntary   Worksite businesses are comprised mainly of liabilities for disabled lives under disability waiver of premium policy provisions, liabilities for survivor income benefit insurance, LTC policies, active life policies and premium stabilization and other contingency liabilities held under life insurance contracts. The future policy benefits for the property   casualty products offered by the Voluntary   Worksite and Retail property   casualty businesses are the same. Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon assumptions such as rates of claim frequencies, levels of severities, inflation, judicial trends, legislative changes or regulatory decisions. Assumptions are based upon our historical experience and analyses of historical development patterns of the relationship of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business, and consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation. 
  Corporate Benefit Funding 
  Liabilities for this segment are primarily related to payout annuities, including pension closeouts and structured settlement annuities. There is no interest rate crediting flexibility on these liabilities. As a result, a sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact earnings; however, we mitigate our risks by applying various ALM strategies, including the use of various derivative positions, primarily interest rate floors and interest rate swaps, to mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario. 
  Latin America 
  Future policy benefits for this segment are held primarily for immediate annuities in Chile, Argentina and Mexico and traditional life contracts mainly in Brazil and Mexico. There are also liabilities held for total return pass-through provisions included in certain universal life and savings products in Mexico. Factors impacting these liabilities include sustained periods of lower yields than rates established at policy issuance, lower than expected asset reinvestment rates, and mortality and lapses different than expected. We mitigate our risks by applying various ALM strategies. 
  Asia 
  Future policy benefits for this segment are held primarily for traditional life, endowment, annuity and accident   health contracts. They are also held for total return pass-through provisions included in certain universal life and savings products. They include certain liabilities for variable annuity and variable life guarantees of minimum death benefits, and longevity guarantees. Factors impacting these liabilities include sustained periods of lower yields than rates established at policy issuance, lower than expected asset reinvestment rates, market volatility, actual lapses resulting in lower than expected income, and actual mortality or morbidity resulting in higher than expected benefit payments. We mitigate our risks by applying various ALM strategies. 
  EMEA 
  Future policy benefits for this segment include unearned premium reserves for group life and credit insurance contracts. Future policy benefits are also held for traditional life, endowment and annuity contracts with significant mortality risk and accident   health contracts. Factors impacting these liabilities include lower than expected asset reinvestment rates, market volatility, actual lapses resulting in lower than expected income, and actual mortality or morbidity resulting in higher than expected benefit payments. We mitigate our risks by having premiums which are adjustable or cancellable in some cases, and by applying various ALM strategies. 
  Corporate   Other 
  Future policy benefits primarily include liabilities for certain run-off LTC and workers  compensation business written by MetLife USA. Additionally, future policy benefits include liabilities for variable annuity guaranteed minimum benefits assumed from a former operating joint venture in Japan that are accounted for as insurance. 
  Policyholder Account Balances 
  PABs are generally equal to the account value, which includes accrued interest credited, but excludes the impact of any applicable charge that may be incurred upon surrender. See    Industry Trends   Impact of a Sustained Low Interest Rate Environment   Interest Rate Stress Scenario  and    Variable Annuity Guarantees.  See also Notes   1   and   4   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. A discussion of PABs by segment (as well as Corporate   Other) follows. 
    138 

     Table of Contents  

   Retail 
  Life   Other PABs are held for retained asset accounts, universal life policies and the fixed account of variable life insurance policies. For Annuities, PABs are held for fixed deferred annuities, the fixed account portion of variable annuities, and non-life contingent income annuities. Interest is credited to the policyholder s account at interest rates we determine which are influenced by current market rates, subject to specified minimums. A sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact earnings as a result of the minimum credited rate guarantees present in most of these PABs. We have various derivative positions, primarily interest rate floors, to partially mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario. Additionally, PABs are held for variable annuity guaranteed minimum living benefits that are accounted for as embedded derivatives. 
  The table below presents the breakdown of account value subject to minimum guaranteed crediting rates for Retail: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    These amounts are not adjusted for policy loans. 
     As a result of acquisitions, we establish additional liabilities known as excess interest reserves for policies with credited rates in excess of market rates as of the applicable acquisition dates. At December 31,   2014  , excess interest reserves were $121 million and $346 million for Life   Other and Annuities, respectively. 
  Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits 
  PABs in this segment are held for retained asset accounts, universal life policies, the fixed account of variable life insurance policies and specialized life insurance products for benefit programs. PABs are credited interest at a rate we determine, which are influenced by current market rates. A sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact earnings as a result of the minimum credited rate guarantees present in most of these PABs. We have various derivative positions, primarily interest rate floors, to partially mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario. 
  The table below presents the breakdown of account value subject to minimum guaranteed crediting rates for Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    These amounts are not adjusted for policy loans. 
       139 

     Table of Contents  

   Corporate Benefit Funding 
  PABs in this segment are comprised of funding agreements. Interest crediting rates vary by type of contract, and can be fixed or variable. Variable interest crediting rates are generally tied to an external index, most commonly (1-month or 3-month) LIBOR. We are exposed to interest rate risks, as well as foreign currency exchange rate risk when guaranteeing payment of interest and return of principal at the contractual maturity date. We may invest in floating rate assets or enter into receive-floating interest rate swaps, also tied to external indices, as well as caps, to mitigate the impact of changes in market interest rates. We also mitigate our risks by applying various ALM strategies and seek to hedge all foreign currency exchange rate risk through the use of foreign currency hedges, including cross currency swaps. 
  Latin America 
  PABs in this segment are held largely for investment-type products and universal life products in Mexico, and deferred annuities in Brazil. Some of the deferred annuities in Brazil are unit-linked-type funds that do not meet the GAAP definition of separate accounts. The rest of the deferred annuities have minimum credited rate guarantees, and these liabilities and the universal life liabilities are generally impacted by sustained periods of low interest rates. Liabilities for unit-linked-type funds are impacted by changes in the fair value of the associated investments, as the return on assets is generally passed directly to the policyholder. 
  Asia 
  PABs in this segment are held largely for fixed income retirement and savings plans, fixed deferred annuities, interest sensitive whole life products, universal life and, to a lesser degree, liability amounts for unit-linked-type funds that do not meet the GAAP definition of separate accounts. Also included are certain liabilities for retirement and savings products sold in certain countries in Asia that generally are sold with minimum credited rate guarantees. Liabilities for guarantees on certain variable annuities in Asia are accounted for as embedded derivatives and recorded at estimated fair value and are also included within PABs. These liabilities are generally impacted by sustained periods of low interest rates, where there are interest rate guarantees. We mitigate our risks by applying various ALM strategies and with reinsurance. Liabilities for unit-linked-type funds are impacted by changes in the fair value of the associated underlying investments, as the return on assets is generally passed directly to the policyholder. 
  The table below presents the breakdown of account value subject to minimum guaranteed crediting rates for Asia: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Excludes negative VOBA liabilities of $1.6 billion at December 31,   2014  , primarily held in Japan. These liabilities were established in instances where the estimated fair value of contract obligations exceeded the book value of assumed insurance policy liabilities associated with the acquisition of ALICO. These negative liabilities were established primarily for decreased market interest rates subsequent to the issuance of the policy contracts. 
              (2) 
    These amounts are not adjusted for policy loans. 
       140 

     Table of Contents  

   EMEA 
  PABs in this segment are held mostly for universal life, deferred annuity, pension products, and unit-linked-type funds that do not meet the GAAP definition of separate accounts. They are also held for endowment products without significant mortality risk. Where there are interest rate guarantees, these liabilities are generally impacted by sustained periods of low interest rates. We mitigate our risks by applying various ALM strategies. Liabilities for unit-linked-type funds are impacted by changes in the fair value of the associated investments, as the return on assets is generally passed directly to the policyholder. 
  Corporate   Other 
  PABs in Corporate   Other are held for variable annuity guaranteed minimum benefits assumed from a former operating joint venture in Japan that are accounted for as embedded derivatives. 
  Variable Annuity Guarantees 
  We issue, directly and through assumed reinsurance, certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits that provide the policyholder a minimum return based on their initial deposit (i.e., the benefit base) less withdrawals. In some cases, the benefit base may be increased by additional deposits, bonus amounts, accruals or optional market value resets. See Notes   1   and   4   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 
  Certain guarantees, including portions thereof, have insurance liabilities established that are included in future policy benefits. Guarantees accounted for in this manner include GMDBs, the life-contingent portion of certain GMWBs, and the portion of GMIBs that requires annuitization. These liabilities are accrued over the life of the contract in proportion to actual and future expected policy assessments based on the level of guaranteed minimum benefits generated using multiple scenarios of separate account returns. The scenarios are based on best estimate assumptions consistent with those used to amortize DAC. When current estimates of future benefits exceed those previously projected or when current estimates of future assessments are lower than those previously projected, liabilities will increase, resulting in a current period charge to net income. The opposite result occurs when the current estimates of future benefits are lower than that previously projected or when current estimates of future assessments exceed those previously projected. At each reporting period, we update the actual amount of business remaining in-force, which impacts expected future assessments and the projection of estimated future benefits resulting in a current period charge or increase to earnings. 
  Certain guarantees, including portions thereof, accounted for as embedded derivatives, are recorded at estimated fair value and included in PABs. Guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives include GMABs, the non-life contingent portion of GMWBs and the portion of certain GMIBs that do not require annuitization. The estimated fair values of guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives are determined based on the present value of projected future benefits minus the present value of projected future fees. The projections of future benefits and future fees require capital market and actuarial assumptions including expectations concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral valuation methodology is used to project the cash flows from the guarantees under multiple capital market scenarios to determine an economic liability. The reported estimated fair value is then determined by taking the present value of these risk-free generated cash flows using a discount rate that incorporates a spread over the risk-free rate to reflect our nonperformance risk and adding a risk margin. For more information on the determination of estimated fair value, see Note   10   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    141 

     Table of Contents  

   The table below contains the carrying value for guarantees at: 

The carrying amounts for guarantees included in PABs above include nonperformance risk adjustments of $299 million and $267 million at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. These nonperformance risk adjustments represent the impact of including a credit spread when discounting the underlying risk neutral cash flows to determine the estimated fair values. The nonperformance risk adjustment does not have an economic impact on us as it cannot be monetized given the nature of these policyholder liabilities. The change in valuation arising from the nonperformance risk adjustment is not hedged. 
  The carrying values of these guarantees can change significantly during periods of sizable and sustained shifts in equity market performance, equity volatility, interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. Carrying values are also impacted by our assumptions around mortality, separate account returns and policyholder behavior, including lapse rates. 
  As discussed below, we use a combination of product design, reinsurance, hedging strategies, and other risk management actions to mitigate the risks related to these benefits. Within each type of guarantee, there is a range of product offerings reflecting the changing nature of these products over time. Changes in product features and terms are in part driven by customer demand but, more importantly, reflect our risk management practices of continuously evaluating the guaranteed benefits and their associated asset-liability matching. 
  The sections below provide further detail by total contract account value for certain of our most popular guarantees. Total contract account values include amounts not reported in the consolidated balance sheets from assumed reinsurance, contractholder-directed investments which do not qualify for presentation as separate account assets, and amounts included in our general account. 
    142 

     Table of Contents  

   GMDBs 
  We offer a range of GMDBs to our contractholders. The table below presents GMDBs, by benefit type, at December 31,   2014  : 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Total contract account value excludes $2.3 billion for contracts with no GMDBs and $11.2 billion of total contract account value in the EMEA and Asia segments. 
     Based on total contract account value, less than 40% of our GMDBs included enhanced death benefits such as the annual step-up or roll-up and step-up combination products. We expect the above GMDB risk profile to be relatively consistent for the foreseeable future. 
  As part of our risk management of the GMDB business, we have been opportunistically reinsuring in-force blocks, taking advantage of favorable capital market conditions. Our approach for such treaties has been to seek coverage for the enhanced GMDBs, such as the annual step-up and the roll-up and step-up combination. These treaties tend to cover long periods until claims start running off, and are written either on a first dollar basis or with a deductible. 
  Living Benefit Guarantees 
  The table below presents our living benefit guarantees based on total contract account values at December 31,   2014  : 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Total contract account value excludes $52.1 billion for contracts with no living benefit guarantees and $9.2 billion of total contract account value in the EMEA and Asia segments. 
     In terms of total contract account value, GMIBs are our most significant living benefit guarantee. Our primary risk management strategy for our GMIB products is our derivatives hedging program as discussed below. Additionally, we have engaged in certain reinsurance agreements covering some of our GMIB business. As part of our overall risk management approach for living benefit guarantees, we continually monitor the reinsurance markets for the right opportunity to purchase additional coverage for our GMIB business. 
    143 

     Table of Contents  

   The table below presents our GMIBs, by their guaranteed payout basis, at December 31,   2014  : 

The annuitization interest rates on GMIBs have been decreased from 2.5% to 0.5% over time, partially in response to the low interest rate environment, accompanied by an increase in the setback period from seven years to 10 years and the recent introduction of the 10-year mortality projection. We expect new contracts to have comparable guarantee features for the foreseeable future. 
  Additionally, 32% of the $98.4 billion of GMIB total contract account value has been invested in managed volatility funds as of December 31,   2014  . These funds seek to manage volatility by adjusting the fund holdings within certain guidelines based on capital market movements. Such activity reduces the overall risk of the underlying funds while maintaining their growth opportunities. These risk mitigation techniques translate to a reduction or elimination of the need for us to manage the funds  volatility through hedging or reinsurance. We expect the proportion of total contract account value invested in these funds to increase for the foreseeable future, as new contracts with GMIB are required to invest in these funds. 
  Our GMIB products typically have a waiting period of 10 years to be eligible for annuitization. As of December 31,   2014  , only 11% of our contracts with GMIBs were eligible for annuitization. The remaining contracts are not eligible for annuitization for an average of seven years. 
  Once eligible for annuitization, contractholders would only be expected to annuitize if their contracts were in-the-money. We calculate in-the-moneyness with respect to GMIBs consistent with net amount at risk as discussed in Note   4   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, by comparing the contractholders  income benefits based on total contract account values and current annuity rates versus the guaranteed income benefits. For those contracts with GMIB, the table below presents details of contracts that are in-the-money and out-of-the money at December 31,   2014  : 

144 

     Table of Contents  

   Derivatives Hedging Variable Annuity Guarantees 
  In addition to reinsurance and our risk mitigating steps described above, we have a hedging strategy that uses various OTC and exchanged traded derivatives. The table below presents the gross notional amount, estimated fair value and primary underlying risk exposure of the derivatives hedging our variable annuity guarantees: 

The change in estimated fair values of our derivatives is recorded in policyholder benefits and claims if they are hedging guarantees included in future policy benefits, and in net derivative gains (losses) if they are hedging guarantees included in PABs. 
  Our hedging strategy involves the significant use of static longer-term derivative instruments to avoid the need to execute transactions during periods of market disruption or higher volatility. We continually monitor the capital markets for opportunities to adjust our liability coverage, as appropriate. Futures are also used to dynamically adjust the daily coverage levels as markets and liability exposures fluctuate. 
  We remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. Certain of our reinsurance agreements and most derivative positions are collateralized and derivatives positions are subject to master netting agreements, both of which significantly reduce the exposure to counterparty risk. In addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other risk management actions prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. 
    Liquidity and Capital Resources 
  Overview 
  Our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. Stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets, particular markets, or financial asset classes can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. The global markets and economy continue to experience volatility that may affect our financing costs and market interest for our debt or equity securities. For further information regarding market factors that could affect our ability to meet liquidity and capital needs, see    Industry Trends  and    Investments   Current Environment.  
    145 

     Table of Contents  

   Liquidity Management 
  Based upon the strength of our franchise, diversification of our businesses, strong financial fundamentals and the substantial funding sources available to us as described herein, we continue to believe we have access to ample liquidity to meet business requirements under current market conditions and reasonably possible stress scenarios. We continuously monitor and adjust our liquidity and capital plans for MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries in light of market conditions, as well as changing needs and opportunities. 
  Short-term Liquidity 
  We maintain a substantial short-term liquidity position, which was $14.0 billion and $15.8 billion at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Short-term liquidity includes cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, excluding assets that are pledged or otherwise committed including: (i) amounts related to cash collateral received under our securities lending program; (ii) amounts related to cash collateral received from counterparties in connection with derivatives; and (iii) cash held in the closed block.  
  Liquid Assets 
  An integral part of our liquidity management includes managing our level of liquid assets, which was $237.4 billion and $240.9 billion at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Liquid assets include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and publicly-traded securities, excluding assets that are pledged or otherwise committed including: (i) amounts related to cash collateral received under our securities lending program; (ii) amounts related to cash collateral received from counterparties in connection with derivatives; (iii) cash and investments held in the closed block, in regulatory custodial accounts or on deposit with regulatory agencies; (iv) investments held in trust in support of collateral financing arrangements; and (v) investments pledged in support of funding agreements, derivatives and short sale agreements. 
  Capital Management 
  We have established several senior management committees as part of our capital management process. These committees, including the Capital Management Committee and the Enterprise Risk Committee ( ERC ), regularly review actual and projected capital levels (under a variety of scenarios including stress scenarios) and our annual capital plan in accordance with our capital policy. The Capital Management Committee is comprised of members of senior management, including MetLife, Inc. s Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Chief Risk Officer ( CRO ). The ERC is also comprised of members of senior management, including MetLife, Inc. s Chief Financial Officer, CRO and Chief Investment Officer. 
  Our Board and senior management are directly involved in the development and maintenance of our capital policy. The capital policy sets forth, among other things, minimum and target capital levels and the governance of the capital management process. All capital actions, including proposed changes to the annual capital plan, capital targets or capital policy, are reviewed by the Finance and Risk Committee of the Board prior to obtaining full Board approval. The Board approves the capital policy and the annual capital plan and authorizes capital actions, as required. 
  See  Risk Factors   Capital-Related Risks   Regulatory Restrictions and Uncertainty and Restrictions Under the Terms of Certain of Our Securities May Prevent Us from Repurchasing Our Stock and Paying Dividends at the Level We Wish  and Note   16   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding restrictions on payment of dividends and stock repurchases. See also    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Common Stock Repurchases  for information regarding MetLife, Inc. s common stock repurchase authorizations. 
    The Company 
  Liquidity 
  Liquidity refers to a company s ability to generate adequate amounts of cash to meet its needs. We determine our liquidity needs based on a rolling six-month forecast by portfolio of invested assets which we monitor daily. We adjust the asset mix and asset maturities based on this rolling six-month forecast. To support this forecast, we conduct cash flow and stress testing, which include various scenarios of the potential risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. We include provisions limiting withdrawal rights on many of our products, including general account pension products sold to employee benefit plan sponsors. Certain of these provisions prevent the customer from making withdrawals prior to the maturity date of the product. In the event of significant cash requirements beyond anticipated liquidity needs, we have various alternatives available depending on market conditions and the amount and timing of the liquidity need. These available alternatives include cash flows from operations, sales of liquid assets, global funding sources and various credit facilities. 
    146 

     Table of Contents  

   Under certain stressful market and economic conditions, our access to liquidity may deteriorate, or the cost to access liquidity may increase. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of anticipated cash requirements or if we are required to post or return cash collateral in connection with derivatives or our securities lending program, we may have difficulty selling investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. In addition, in the event of such forced sale, accounting guidance requires the recognition of a loss for certain securities in an unrealized loss position and may require the impairment of other securities if there is a need to sell such securities, which may negatively impact our financial condition. See  Risk Factors   Investment-Related Risks   Should the Need Arise, We May Have Difficulty Selling Certain Holdings in Our Investment Portfolio or in Our Securities Lending Program in a Timely Manner and Realizing Full Value Given Their Illiquid Nature.  
  In extreme circumstances, all general account assets within a particular legal entity   other than those which may have been pledged to a specific purpose   are available to fund obligations of the general account of that legal entity. 
  Capital 
  We manage our capital position to maintain our financial strength and credit ratings. Our capital position is supported by our ability to generate strong cash flows within our operating companies and borrow funds at competitive rates, as well as by our demonstrated ability to raise additional capital to meet operating and growth needs despite adverse market and economic conditions. 
  Rating Agencies 
  Rating agencies assign insurer financial strength ratings to MetLife, Inc. s domestic life insurance subsidiaries and credit ratings to MetLife, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries. Financial strength ratings indicate the rating agency s opinion regarding an insurance company s ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations. Credit ratings indicate the rating agency s opinion regarding a debt issuer s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner. They are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity. The level and composition of regulatory capital at the subsidiary level and our equity capital are among the many factors considered in determining our insurer financial strength ratings and credit ratings. Each agency has its own capital adequacy evaluation methodology, and assessments are generally based on a combination of factors. In addition to heightening the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies, rating agencies have increased and may continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. See  Business   Company Ratings  for further information on our insurer financial strength ratings. 
  Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: 
             
    reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and investment products; 
                
    adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; 
                
    materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; 
                
    requiring us to post additional collateral under certain of our financing and derivative transactions; 
                
    requiring us to reduce prices for our products and services to remain competitive; and 
                
    adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all. 
     A downgrade in the credit ratings or insurer financial strength ratings of MetLife, Inc. or its subsidiaries would likely impact us in the following ways, including: 
             
    impact our ability to generate cash flows from the sale of funding agreements and other capital market products offered by our Corporate Benefit Funding segment; 
                
    impact the cost and availability of financing for MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries; and 
                
    result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting investments held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. See    Liquidity and Capital Uses   Pledged Collateral.  
       147 

     Table of Contents  

   Statutory Capital and Dividends 
  Our domestic insurance subsidiaries have statutory surplus well above levels to meet current regulatory requirements. 
  Except for American Life, RBC requirements are used as minimum capital requirements by the NAIC and the state insurance departments to identify companies that merit regulatory action. RBC is based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and statutory reserve items. The formula takes into account the risk characteristics of the insurer, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk and is calculated on an annual basis. The formula is used as an early warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. These rules apply to each of our domestic insurance subsidiaries. State insurance laws grant insurance regulators the authority to require various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose total adjusted capital does not meet or exceed certain RBC levels. At the date of the most recent annual statutory financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the total adjusted capital of each of these subsidiaries was in excess of each of those RBC levels. 
  As a Delaware corporation, American Life is subject to Delaware law; however, because it does not conduct insurance business in Delaware or any other domestic state, it is exempt from RBC requirements under Delaware law. American Life s operations are also regulated by applicable authorities of the countries in which it operates and is subject to capital and solvency requirements in those countries. 
  The amount of dividends that our insurance subsidiaries can pay to MetLife, Inc. or to other parent entities is constrained by the amount of surplus we hold to maintain our ratings and provides an additional margin for risk protection and investment in our businesses. We proactively take actions to maintain capital consistent with these ratings objectives, which may include adjusting dividend amounts and deploying financial resources from internal or external sources of capital. Certain of these activities may require regulatory approval. Furthermore, the payment of dividends and other distributions to MetLife, Inc. and other parent entities by their respective insurance subsidiaries is governed by insurance laws and regulations. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation,   Business   Regulation   International Regulation,     MetLife, Inc.   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Dividends from Subsidiaries  and Note   16   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  Affiliated Captive Reinsurance Transactions 
  Various subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. cede specific policy classes, including term and universal life insurance, participating whole life insurance, long term disability insurance, group life insurance and other business, to various wholly-owned captive reinsurers. The reinsurance activities among these affiliated companies are eliminated within our consolidated results of operations. The statutory reserves of such affiliated captive reinsurers are supported by a combination of funds withheld receivable assets, investment assets and letters of credit issued by unaffiliated financial institutions. MetLife, Inc. has committed to maintain the surplus of several of the domestic affiliated captive reinsurers, as well as provided guarantees of the captive reinsurers  repayment obligations on the letters of credit. MetLife, Inc. has also provided guarantees of reinsurers  repayment obligations on derivative and certain reinsurance agreements entered into by the captives. See    MetLife, Inc.   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Support Agreements  for further details on certain of these guarantees. Various subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. enter into reinsurance agreements with affiliated captive reinsurers for risk and capital management purposes, as well as to manage statutory reserve requirements related to universal life and term life insurance policies and other business.  
  Recently, the NAIC and the Department of Financial Services have been scrutinizing insurance companies  use of affiliated captive reinsurers and off-shore entities. One of the recommendations of the Department of Financial Services is that state insurance commissioners consider an immediate national moratorium on new reserve financing transactions involving captive insurers, until their inquiries are complete. We are not aware of any states other than New York and California implementing such a moratorium. While such a moratorium would not impact our existing reinsurance agreements with captive reinsurers, a moratorium placed on the use of captives for new reserve financing transactions could impact our ability to write certain products and/or impact our RBC ratios and ability to deploy excess capital in the future. This may result in our need to increase prices, modify product features or limit the availability of those products to our customers. While this affects insurers across the industry, it could adversely impact our competitive position and our results of operations in the future. We will evaluate product modifications, pricing structure and alternative means of managing risks, capital and statutory reserves and we expect the discontinued use of captive reinsurance on new reserve financing transactions would not have a material impact on our future consolidated financial results. 
    148 

     Table of Contents  

   Our variable annuity guaranteed minimum benefit risk and certain other risks were previously ceded to an affiliated captive reinsurer. In November 2014, this captive reinsurer merged with and into MetLife USA as part of the Mergers, further reducing the Company s exposure to and use of captive reinsurers. See    Executive Summary   Other Key Information   Significant Events  for further information on the Mergers. See also  Risk Factors   Regulatory and Legal Risks   Our Insurance and Brokerage Businesses Are Highly Regulated, and Changes in Regulation and in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our Growth   U.S. Regulation   Insurance Regulation  and Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our reinsurance activities. 
  Summary of the Company s Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital 
  Our primary sources and uses of liquidity and capital are summarized as follows: 

149 

     Table of Contents  

   Cash Flows from Operations 
  The principal cash inflows from our insurance activities come from insurance premiums, annuity considerations and deposit funds. The principal cash outflows relate to various life insurance, property   casualty, annuity and pension products, operating expenses and income tax, as well as interest expense. A primary liquidity concern with respect to these cash flows is the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. 
  Cash Flows from Investments 
  The principal cash inflows from our investment activities come from repayments of principal, proceeds from maturities and sales of investments, settlements of freestanding derivatives and net investment income. The principal cash outflows relate to purchases of investments, issuances of policy loans and settlements of freestanding derivatives. Additional cash outflows relate to purchases of businesses. We typically have a net cash outflow from investing activities because cash inflows from insurance operations are reinvested in accordance with our ALM discipline to fund insurance liabilities. We closely monitor and manage these risks through our comprehensive investment risk management process. The primary liquidity concerns with respect to these cash flows are the risk of default by debtors and market disruption. 
  Cash Flows from Financing 
  The principal cash inflows from our financing activities come from issuances of debt and other securities, deposits of funds associated with PABs and lending of securities. The principal cash outflows come from repayments of debt, payments of dividends on and repurchases of MetLife, Inc. s securities, withdrawals associated with PABs and the return of securities on loan. The primary liquidity concerns with respect to these cash flows are market disruption and the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. 
    Liquidity and Capital Sources 
  In addition to the general description of liquidity and capital sources in    Summary of the Company s Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital,  the following additional information is provided regarding our primary sources of liquidity and capital: 
  Global Funding Sources 
  Liquidity is provided by a variety of global funding sources, including funding agreements, credit facilities and commercial paper. Capital is provided by a variety of global funding sources, including short-term and long-term debt, collateral financing arrangements, junior subordinated debt securities, preferred securities, equity securities and equity-linked securities. The diversity of our global funding sources enhances our funding flexibility, limits dependence on any one market or source of funds and generally lowers the cost of funds. Our primary global funding sources include: 
  Common Stock 
  In October 2014, September 2013 and October 2012, MetLife, Inc. issued 22,907,960 new shares, 22,679,955 new shares and 28,231,956 new shares, respectively, of its common stock, each for $1.0 billion, in connection with the remarketing of senior debt securities and settlement of stock purchase contracts. See    Remarketing of Senior Debt Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts.  
  Commercial Paper, Reported in Short-term Debt 
  MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding, Inc. ( MetLife Funding ) each have commercial paper programs supported by a $4.0 billion general corporate credit facility (see    Credit and Committed Facilities ). MetLife Funding, a subsidiary of MLIC, serves as our centralized finance unit. MetLife Funding raises cash from its commercial paper program and uses the proceeds to extend loans through MetLife Credit Corp., another subsidiary of MLIC, to affiliates in order to enhance the financial flexibility and liquidity of these companies. Outstanding balances for the commercial paper programs fluctuate in line with changes to affiliates  financing arrangements. 
  Federal Home Loan Bank Funding Agreements, Reported in PABs 
  Certain of our domestic insurance subsidiaries are members of a regional FHLB. During the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , we issued $13.9 billion, $11.5 billion and $17.4 billion, respectively, and repaid $14.0 billion, $11.8 billion and $14.8 billion, respectively, under funding agreements with certain regional FHLBs. At both December 31,   2014   and   2013  , total obligations outstanding under these funding agreements were $15.0 billion. See Note   4   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    150 

     Table of Contents  

   Special Purpose Entity Funding Agreements, Reported in PABs 
  We issue fixed and floating rate funding agreements, which are denominated in either U.S. dollars or foreign currencies, to certain SPEs that have issued either debt securities or commercial paper for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements. During the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , we issued $48.9 billion, $37.7 billion and $35.1 billion, respectively, and repaid $45.6 billion, $36.8 billion and $31.1 billion, respectively, under such funding agreements. At December 31,   2014   and   2013  , total obligations outstanding under these funding agreements were $33.9 billion and $31.2 billion, respectively. See Note   4   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation Funding Agreements, Reported in PABs 
  We have issued funding agreements to Farmer Mac, as well as to certain SPEs that have issued debt securities for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements, and such debt securities are also guaranteed as to payment of interest and principal by Farmer Mac. The obligations under all such funding agreements are secured by a pledge of certain eligible agricultural real estate mortgage loans. During the year ended December 31,   2014  , we issued $200 million and repaid $200 million, under such funding agreements. During the years ended December 31,   2013   and   2012  , there were no issuances or repayments under such funding agreements. At both December 31,   2014   and   2013  , total obligations outstanding under these funding agreements were $2.8 billion. See Note   4   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings 
  See Note   12   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the following issuances   of debt and other borrowings:  
             
    In April 2014, MetLife, Inc. issued $1.0 billion of senior notes for general corporate purposes, which included repayment of certain senior notes upon their maturity in 2014 and the redemption of certain senior notes due in 2033.  
                
    In November 2013, MetLife, Inc. issued $1.0 billion of senior notes for general corporate purposes, which included repayment of certain senior notes upon their maturity in 2014; 
                
    In August 2012, MetLife, Inc. issued $750 million of senior notes for general corporate purposes, which included repayment of certain senior notes upon their maturity in 2013; 
                
    During the year ended December 31,   2012  , MetLife Bank received advances related to short-term borrowings totaling $150 million from the FHLB of New York ( FHLB of NY ). 
     Remarketing of Senior Debt Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts 
  In each of October 2014, September 2013 and October 2012, MetLife, Inc. closed the successful remarketings of $1.0 billion of senior debt securities underlying the common equity units which were issued in November 2010 in connection with the acquisition of ALICO. MetLife, Inc. did not receive any proceeds from the remarketings. Most common equity unit holders used the remarketing proceeds to settle their payment obligations under the applicable stock purchase contracts. The subsequent settlement of the stock purchase contracts provided proceeds to MetLife, Inc. of $1.0 billion in each of October 2014, September 2013 and October 2012 in exchange for newly issued shares of MetLife, Inc. s common stock as described in          Common Stock  above. 
  See Note   15   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the remarketings. 
  Credit and Committed Facilities 
  At   December 31, 2014  , we maintained a $4.0 billion unsecured credit facility and certain committed facilities aggregating $12.2 billion. When drawn upon, these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective agreements. 
    151 

     Table of Contents  

   In May 2014, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding entered into a $4.0 billion five-year unsecured credit agreement, which amended and restated both the five-year $3.0 billion and the five-year $1.0 billion unsecured credit agreements in their entireties into a single agreement (the  2014 Five-Year Credit Agreement ). The credit facility made available by the 2014 Five-Year Credit Agreement may be used for general corporate purposes (including, in the case of loans, to back up commercial paper and, in the case of letters of credit, to support variable annuity policy and reinsurance reserve requirements). All borrowings under the 2014 Five-Year Credit Agreement must be repaid by May 30, 2019, except that letters of credit outstanding on that date may remain outstanding until no later than May 30, 2020. MetLife, Inc. incurred costs of $6 million related to the 2014 Five-Year Credit Agreement, which were capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the remaining term of the 2014 Five-Year Credit Agreement. At   December 31, 2014  , we had outstanding $684 million in letters of credit and no drawdowns against this facility. Remaining availability was $3.3 billion at   December 31, 2014  . 
  The committed facilities are used for collateral for certain of our affiliated reinsurance liabilities. At December 31,   2014  , $6.6 billion in letters of credit and $2.8 billion in aggregate drawdowns under collateral financing arrangements were outstanding against these facilities. Remaining availability was $2.9 billion at December 31,   2014  . 
  See Note   12   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about these facilities. 
  We have no reason to believe that our lending counterparties will be unable to fulfill their respective contractual obligations under these facilities. As commitments associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect our actual future cash funding requirements. 
  Outstanding Debt Under Global Funding Sources 
  The following table summarizes our outstanding debt at: 
   
 ______________ 
           (1) 
    Excludes $151 million and $1.5 billion at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively, of long-term debt relating to CSEs   FVO (see Note   8   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). For more information regarding long-term debt, see Note   12   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
              (2) 
    For information regarding collateral financing arrangements and junior subordinated debt securities, see Notes   13   and   14   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively. 
     Debt and Facility Covenants 
  Certain of our debt instruments and committed facilities, as well as our credit facility, contain various administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. We believe we were in compliance with all such covenants at   December 31, 2014  . 
  Dispositions 
  Cash proceeds from dispositions during the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012   were $759 million, $407 million and $605 million, respectively. During the year ended   December 31, 2013  , the sale of MetLife Bank s depository business resulted in cash outflows of $6.4 billion as a result of the buyer s assumption of the bank deposits liability in exchange for our cash payment.  
  See Note   3   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 
    Liquidity and Capital Uses 
  In addition to the general description of liquidity and capital uses in    Summary of the Company s Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital  and    Contractual Obligations,  the following additional information is provided regarding our primary uses of liquidity and capital: 
    152 

     Table of Contents  

   Common Stock Repurchases 
   On January 15, 2008. MetLife, Inc. announced that its Board of Directors authorized $1.0 billion of common stock repurchases. On April 22, 2008, MetLife, Inc. announced that its Board of Directors authorized an additional $1.0 billion of common stock repurchases. MetLife, Inc. completed purchases under the January 2008 authorization in August 2014. MetLife, Inc. commenced purchases under the April 2008 authorization in August 2014 and, at December 31, 2014, $261 million remained unutilized under this authorization. On December 12, 2014, MetLife, Inc. announced that its Board of Directors authorized an additional $1.0 billion of common stock repurchases. MetLife, Inc. made no purchases under that authorization in 2014 and, at December 31, 2014, an aggregate of $1.3 billion remained unutilized under the April 2008 and December 2014 repurchase authorizations.  MetLife, Inc. completed purchases under the April 2008 authorization in January 2015, and commenced purchases under the December 2014 authorization. Under these authorizations, MetLife, Inc. may purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of transactions meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act) and in privately negotiated transactions. 
  During the year ended December 31, 2014, MetLife, Inc. repurchased 18,876,363 shares of common stock in the open market for $1.0 billion utilizing the January 2008 and April 2008 authorizations. MetLife, Inc. did not repurchase any shares of common stock during the years ended December 31, 2013 or 2012. In 2015, through February 23, 2015, MetLife, Inc. repurchased 15,081,322 shares of its common stock in the open market for $739 million utilizing the April 2008 and December 2014 authorizations. See  Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.   
  Future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several factors, including our capital position, liquidity, financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions, the market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock compared to management s assessment of the stock s underlying value and applicable regulatory approvals, as well as other legal and accounting factors. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI,   Risk Factors   Capital-Related Risks   Regulatory Restrictions and Uncertainty and Restrictions Under the Terms of Certain of Our Securities May Prevent Us from Repurchasing Our Stock and Paying Dividends at the Level We Wish  and Note   16   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Dividends 
  During the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , MetLife, Inc. paid dividends on its common stock of $1.5 billion, $1.1 billion and $811 million, respectively. During each of the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , MetLife, Inc. paid dividends on its preferred stock of $122 million. See Note   16   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the calculation and timing of these dividend payments. 
  The declaration and payment of common stock dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and will depend on MetLife, Inc. s financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. On January 6,   2015  , the MetLife, Inc. Board of Directors declared a first quarter   2015   common stock dividend of $0.35 per share payable on March 13,   2015   to shareholders of record as of February 6,   2015  . The Company estimates the aggregate dividend payment will be $394 million. 
  Preferred stock dividends are paid quarterly in accordance with the terms of MetLife, Inc. s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, and 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B.  
  The payment of dividends and other distributions by MetLife, Inc. to its security holders may be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve as a result of MetLife, Inc. s designation as a non-bank SIFI. See  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI.  In addition, if additional capital requirements are imposed on MetLife, Inc. as a G-SII, its ability to pay dividends could be reduced by any such additional capital requirements that might be imposed. See  Business   Regulation   International Regulation   Global Systemically Important Insurers.  The payment of dividends is also subject to restrictions under the terms of our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures in situations where we may be experiencing financial stress. See  Risk Factors   Capital-Related Risks  Regulatory Restrictions and Uncertainty and Restrictions Under the Terms of Certain of Our Securities May Prevent Us from Repurchasing Our Stock and Paying Dividends at the Level We Wish  and Note   16   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    153 

     Table of Contents  

   Debt Repayments 
  See Notes   12   and   13   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on long-term and short-term debt and collateral financing arrangements, respectively, including: 
             
    In June and February 2014, MetLife, Inc. repaid at maturity its $350 million and $1.0 billion senior notes, respectively. 
                    
    In June 2012, following regulatory approval, MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charleston ( MRC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc., repurchased and canceled $451 million in aggregate principal amount of surplus notes. 
     Debt Repurchases 
  We may from time to time seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases and/or exchanges for other securities, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Any such repurchases or exchanges will be dependent upon several factors, including our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, general market conditions, and applicable regulatory, legal and accounting factors. Whether or not to repurchase any debt and the size and timing of any such repurchases will be determined at our discretion. 
  Support Agreements 
  MetLife, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries (each, an  Obligor ) are parties to various capital support commitments and guarantees with subsidiaries. Under these arrangements, each Obligor, with respect to the applicable entity, has agreed to cause such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels or has guaranteed certain contractual obligations. We anticipate that in the event that these arrangements place demands upon us, there will be sufficient liquidity and capital to enable us to meet anticipated demands. In November 2014, prior to the Mergers, certain foreign reinsurance risks reinsured by Exeter were recaptured and then reinsured to a new insurance affiliate in Bermuda. At that time, MetLife, Inc. s guarantee of Exeter s former reinsurance obligations was replaced by a guarantee of the Bermuda insurance affiliate s reinsurance obligations. Further, MetLife, Inc. now also guarantees obligations of the new Bermuda insurance affiliate arising from derivatives. Certain other MetLife, Inc. and Obligor contingent commitments were also terminated or canceled in connection with the Mergers. See    MetLife, Inc.   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Support Agreements.  
  Insurance Liabilities 
  Liabilities arising from our insurance activities primarily relate to benefit payments under various life insurance, property   casualty, annuity and group pension products, as well as payments for policy surrenders, withdrawals and loans. For annuity or deposit type products, surrender or lapse behavior differs somewhat by segment. In the Retail segment, which includes individual annuities, lapses and surrenders tend to occur in the normal course of business. During the years ended December 31,   2014   and   2013  , general account surrenders and withdrawals from annuity products were $4.5 billion and $4.3 billion, respectively. In the Corporate Benefit Funding segment, which includes pension closeouts, bank-owned life insurance and other fixed annuity contracts, as well as funding agreements and other capital market products, most of the products offered have fixed maturities or fairly predictable surrenders or withdrawals. With regard to the Corporate Benefit Funding segment liabilities that provide customers with limited rights to accelerate payments, there were $135 million at December 31,   2014   of funding agreements and other capital market products that could be put back to the Company after a period of notice of 90 days. See    Contractual Obligations.  
    154 

     Table of Contents  

   Pledged Collateral 
  We pledge collateral to, and have collateral pledged to us by, counterparties in connection with our derivatives. At December 31,   2014   and   2013  , we were obligated to return cash collateral under our control of $  4.6 billion   and $2.0 billion, respectively. At December 31,   2014   and   2013  , we had pledged cash collateral of   $133 million   and $3 million, respectively, for OTC-bilateral derivatives in a net liability position. With respect to OTC-bilateral derivatives in a net liability position that have credit contingent provisions, a one-notch downgrade in the Company s credit rating would require   $5 million   of additional collateral be provided to our counterparties as of December 31,   2014  . See Note   9   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about collateral pledged to us, collateral we pledge and derivatives subject to credit contingent provisions.  
  We pledged collateral and have had collateral pledged to us, and may be required from time to time to pledge additional collateral or be entitled to have additional collateral pledged to us, in connection with collateral financing arrangements related to the reinsurance of closed block and ULSG liabilities. See Note   13   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  We pledged collateral from time to time in connection with funding agreements. See Notes   4   and   12   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Securities Lending 
  We participate in a securities lending program whereby securities are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. We obtain collateral, usually cash, from the borrower, which must be returned to the borrower when the loaned securities are returned to us. Under our securities lending program, we were liable for cash collateral under our control of $30.8 billion and $28.3 billion at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Of these amounts, $10.7 billion and $6.0 billion at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively, were on open, meaning that the related loaned security could be returned to us on the next business day requiring the immediate return of cash collateral we hold. The estimated fair value of the securities on loan related to the cash collateral on open at December 31,   2014   was $10.5 billion, of which $9.5 billion were U.S. Treasury and agency securities which, if put to us, could be immediately sold to satisfy the cash requirements to immediately return the cash collateral. See    Investments   Securities Lending  for further information. 
  Litigation 
  Putative or certified class action litigation and other litigation, and claims and assessments against us, in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and those otherwise provided for in the consolidated financial statements, have arisen in the course of our business, including, but not limited to, in connection with our activities as an insurer, employer, investor, investment advisor, taxpayer and, formerly, a mortgage lending bank. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning our compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations. See Note   21   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  We establish liabilities for litigation and regulatory loss contingencies when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. For material matters where a loss is believed to be reasonably possible but not probable, no accrual is made but we disclose the nature of the contingency and an aggregate estimate of the reasonably possible range of loss in excess of amounts accrued, when such an estimate can be made. It is not possible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome of all pending investigations and legal proceedings. In some of the matters referred to herein, very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Although in light of these considerations, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a material adverse effect upon our financial position, based on information currently known by us, in our opinion, the outcome of such pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to have such an effect. However, given the large and/or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. 
  Acquisitions 
  Cash outflows for acquisitions and investments in strategic partnerships during the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012   were $277 million, $1.9 billion and $49 million, respectively. See Note   3   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding acquisitions. 
    155 

       Table of Contents  

   Contractual Obligations 
  The following table summarizes our major contractual obligations at December 31,   2014  : 

Insurance Liabilities 
  Insurance liabilities include future policy benefits, other policy-related balances, policyholder dividends payable and the policyholder dividend obligation, which are all reported on the consolidated balance sheet and are more fully described in Notes   1   and   4   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The amounts presented reflect future estimated cash payments and (i) are based on mortality, morbidity, lapse and other assumptions comparable with our experience and expectations of future payment patterns; and (ii) consider future premium receipts on current policies in-force. All estimated cash payments presented are undiscounted as to interest, net of estimated future premiums on in-force policies and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. Payment of amounts related to policyholder dividends left on deposit are projected based on assumptions of policyholder withdrawal activity. Because the exact timing and amount of the ultimate policyholder dividend obligation is subject to significant uncertainty and the amount of the policyholder dividend obligation is based upon a long-term projection of the performance of the closed block, we have reflected the obligation at the amount of the liability, if any, presented in the consolidated balance sheet in the more than five years category. Additionally, the more than five years category includes estimated payments due for periods extending for more than 100 years. 
  The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years of $365.0 billion exceeds the liability amounts of $207.8 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet principally due to (i) the time value of money, which accounts for a substantial portion of the difference; and (ii) differences in assumptions, most significantly mortality, between the date the liabilities were initially established and the current date; and are partially offset by liabilities related to accounting conventions, or which are not contractually due, which are excluded. 
  Actual cash payments may differ significantly from the liabilities as presented in the consolidated balance sheets and the estimated cash payments as presented due to differences between actual experience and the assumptions used in the establishment of these liabilities and the estimation of these cash payments. 
  For the majority of our insurance operations, estimated contractual obligations for future policy benefits and PABs, as presented, are derived from the annual asset adequacy analysis used to develop actuarial opinions of statutory reserve adequacy for state regulatory purposes. These cash flows are materially representative of the cash flows under GAAP. See    Policyholder Account Balances.  
  Policyholder Account Balances 
  See Notes   1   and   4   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the components of PABs. See    Insurance Liabilities  regarding the source and uncertainties associated with the estimation of the contractual obligations related to future policy benefits and PABs. 
    156 

       Table of Contents  

   Amounts presented represent the estimated cash payments undiscounted as to interest and including assumptions related to the receipt of future premiums and deposits; withdrawals, including unscheduled or partial withdrawals; policy lapses; surrender charges; annuitization; mortality; future interest credited; policy loans and other contingent events as appropriate for the respective product type. Such estimated cash payments are also presented net of estimated future premiums on policies currently in-force and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. For obligations denominated in foreign currencies, cash payments have been estimated using current spot foreign currency rates. 
  The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years of $299.5 billion exceeds the liability amount of $209.3 billion included on the consolidated balance sheets principally due to (i) the time value of money, which accounts for a substantial portion of the difference; (ii) differences in assumptions, between the date the liabilities were initially established and the current date; and (iii) liabilities related to accounting conventions, or which are not contractually due, which are excluded. 
  Payables for Collateral Under Securities Loaned and Other Transactions 
  We have accepted cash collateral in connection with securities lending and derivatives. As the securities lending transactions expire within the next year and the timing of the return of the derivatives collateral is uncertain, the return of the collateral has been included in the one year or less category in the table. We also held non-cash collateral, which is not reflected as a liability in the consolidated balance sheet of $4.2 billion at December 31,   2014  . 
  Debt 
  Amounts presented for debt include short-term debt, long-term debt, collateral financing arrangements and junior subordinated debt securities, the total of which differs from the total of the corresponding amounts presented on the consolidated balance sheet due to the following: (i) the amounts presented herein do not include premiums or discounts upon issuance or purchase accounting fair value adjustments; (ii) the amounts presented herein include future interest on such obligations for the period from January 1, 2015 through maturity; and (iii) the amounts presented herein do not include $151 million at December 31,   2014   of long-term debt relating to CSEs   FVO as such debt does not represent our contractual obligations. Future interest on variable rate debt was computed using prevailing rates at December 31,   2014   and, as such, does not consider the impact of future rate movements. Future interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the obligations for the period from January 1, 2014 through maturity, except with respect to junior subordinated debt which was computed using the stated rates through the scheduled redemption dates as it is our expectation that such obligations will be redeemed at that time. Inclusion of interest payments on junior subordinated debt securities through the final maturity dates would increase the contractual obligation by $7.7 billion. Pursuant to collateral financing arrangements, MetLife, Inc. may be required to deliver cash or pledge collateral to the respective unaffiliated financial institutions. See Note   13   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Investment Commitments 
  To enhance the return on our investment portfolio, we commit to lend funds under mortgage loans, bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments and we commit to fund partnership investments. In the table, the timing of the funding of mortgage loans and private corporate bond investments is based on the expiration dates of the corresponding commitments. As it relates to commitments to fund partnerships and bank credit facilities, we anticipate that these amounts could be invested any time over the next five years; however, as the timing of the fulfillment of the obligation cannot be predicted, such obligations are generally presented in the one year or less category. Commitments to fund bridge loans are short-term obligations and, as a result, are presented in the one year or less category. See Note   21   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  
  Operating Leases 
  As a lessee, we have various operating leases, primarily for office space. Contractual provisions exist that could increase or accelerate those lease obligations presented, including various leases with early buyouts and/or escalation clauses. However, the impact of any such transactions would not be material to our financial position or results of operations. See Note   21   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    157 

       Table of Contents  

   Other 
  Other obligations presented are principally comprised of amounts due under reinsurance agreements, payables related to securities purchased but not yet settled, securities sold short, accrued interest on debt obligations, estimated fair value of derivative obligations, deferred compensation arrangements, guaranty liabilities, and accruals and accounts payable due under contractual obligations, which are all reported in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. If the timing of any of these other obligations is sufficiently uncertain, the amounts are included within the one year or less category. Items reported in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets that were excluded from the table represent accounting conventions or are not liabilities due under contractual obligations. Unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest totaling $1.1 billion was excluded as the timing of payment cannot be reliably determined. 
  Separate account liabilities are excluded as they are fully funded by cash flows from the corresponding separate account assets and are set equal to the estimated fair value of separate account assets. 
  We also enter into agreements to purchase goods and services in the normal course of business; however, such amounts are excluded as these purchase obligations were not material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position at December 31,   2014  . 
  Additionally, we have agreements in place for services we conduct, generally at cost, between subsidiaries relating to insurance, reinsurance, loans and capitalization. Intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Intercompany transactions among insurance subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the appropriate insurance regulators as required. 
    MetLife, Inc. 
  Liquidity and Capital Management 
  Liquidity and capital are managed to preserve stable, reliable and cost-effective sources of cash to meet all current and future financial obligations and are provided by a variety of sources, including a portfolio of liquid assets, a diversified mix of short- and long-term funding sources from the wholesale financial markets and the ability to borrow through credit and committed facilities. Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity risk metrics, including the composition and level of the liquid asset portfolio, timing differences in short-term cash flow obligations, access to the financial markets for capital and debt transactions and exposure to contingent draws on MetLife, Inc. s liquidity. MetLife, Inc. is an active participant in the global financial markets through which it obtains a significant amount of funding. These markets, which serve as cost-effective sources of funds, are critical components of MetLife, Inc. s liquidity and capital management. Decisions to access these markets are based upon relative costs, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile and capital structure. A disruption in the financial markets could limit MetLife, Inc. s access to liquidity. 
  MetLife, Inc. s ability to maintain regular access to competitively priced wholesale funds is fostered by its current credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. We view our capital ratios, credit quality, stable and diverse earnings streams, diversity of liquidity sources and our liquidity monitoring procedures as critical to retaining such credit ratings. See    The Company   Capital   Rating Agencies.  
  Liquidity 
  For a summary of MetLife, Inc. s liquidity, see    The Company   Liquidity.  
  Capital 
  For a summary of MetLife, Inc. s capital, see    The Company   Capital.  For further information regarding potential capital restrictions and limitations on MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI and G-SII, see  Business   Regulation   U.S. Regulation   Regulation as a Non-Bank SIFI  and  Business   Regulation   International Regulation   Global Systemically Important Insurers.  See also    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Common Stock Repurchases  for information regarding the resumption of MetLife, Inc. s common stock repurchases. 
    158 

     Table of Contents  

   Liquid Assets 
  At December 31,   2014   and   2013  , MetLife, Inc. and other MetLife holding companies had $6.1 billion and $5.9 billion, respectively, in liquid assets. Of these amounts, $5.4 billion and $5.5 billion were held by MetLife, Inc. and $681 million and $453 million were held by other MetLife holding companies at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Liquid assets include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and publicly-traded securities excluding assets that are pledged or otherwise committed. Assets pledged or otherwise committed include: (i) amounts related to cash collateral received from counterparties in connection with derivatives; (ii) investments held in trust in support of collateral financing arrangements; and (iii) investments pledged in support of derivatives. 
  Liquid assets held in non-U.S. holding companies are generated in part through dividends from non-U.S. insurance operations. Such dividends are subject to local insurance regulatory requirements, as discussed in    Liquidity and Capital Sources   Dividends from Subsidiaries.  The cumulative earnings of certain active non-U.S. operations have been reinvested indefinitely in such non-U.S. operations, as described in Note   19   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Under current tax laws, should we repatriate such earnings, we may be subject to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes. 
  Summary of MetLife, Inc. s Sources and Uses of Liquid Assets 
  MetLife, Inc. s sources and uses of liquid assets are summarized as follows. 

______________ 
    159 

     Table of Contents  

            (1) 
    All dividends and returns of capital to MetLife, Inc., were from operating subsidiaries and none were from other MetLife holding companies during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. 
              (2) 
    See MetLife, Inc. (Parent Company Only) Condensed Statements of Cash Flows included in Schedule II of the Financial Statement Schedules for the source of liquid assets from receipts on loans to subsidiaries (excluding interest) and for the use of liquid assets for the issuances of loans to subsidiaries (excluding interest). 
              (3) 
    Other, net includes $862 million of net receipts and $69 million of net payments by MetLife, Inc. to and from subsidiaries under a tax sharing agreement and tax payments to tax agencies during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  
              (4) 
    Amounts to fund business acquisitions and strategic insurance partnerships were $251 million and $150 million (included in capital contributions to subsidiaries) and $0 and $1.5 billion (included in issuance of and repayments on loans to subsidiaries and related interest, net) during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 
     The primary sources of MetLife, Inc. s liquid assets are dividends and returns of capital from subsidiaries, long-term debt issued, common stock issued, and net receipts from subsidiaries under a tax sharing agreement. MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends imposed by the regulators of their respective domiciles. See    Liquidity and Capital Sources   Dividends from Subsidiaries.  
  The primary uses of MetLife, Inc. s liquid assets are principal and interest payments on long-term debt, dividends on or repurchases of common and preferred stock, capital contributions to subsidiaries, funding of business acquisitions, income taxes and operating expenses. MetLife, Inc. is party to various capital support commitments and guarantees with certain of its subsidiaries. See    Liquidity and Capital Uses   Support Agreements.  
  In addition, MetLife, Inc. issues loans to subsidiaries or subsidiaries issue loans to MetLife, Inc. Accordingly, changes in MetLife, Inc. liquid assets include issuances of loans to subsidiaries, proceeds of loans from subsidiaries and the related repayment of principal and payment of interest on such loans. See    Liquidity and Capital Sources   Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings   Issuances of Affiliated Long-term Debt  and    Liquidity and Capital Uses   Affiliated Capital Transactions.  
  Sources and Uses of Liquid Assets of Other MetLife Holding Companies 
  The primary sources of liquid assets of other MetLife holding companies are dividends, returns of capital and remittances from their subsidiaries and branches, principally non-U.S. insurance companies; capital contributions received; receipts of principal and interest on loans to affiliates and borrowings from affiliates. MetLife, Inc. s non-U.S. operations are subject to regulatory restrictions of the payment of dividends imposed by local regulators. See    Liquidity and Capital Sources   Dividends from Subsidiaries.  The primary uses of liquid assets of other MetLife holding companies are capital contributions paid to their subsidiaries and branches, principally non-U.S. insurance companies; dividends and returns of capital paid; loans to affiliates; principal and interest paid on loans from affiliates; business acquisitions; and operating expenses. 
  Liquid assets of other MetLife holding companies were $681 million and $453 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The net change in liquid assets of other MetLife holding companies was $228 million and ($266) million during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The net change in liquid assets included (after elimination of transactions between all holding companies including MetLife, Inc.) the following: (i) receipt of dividends, returns of capital and remittances from subsidiaries and branches totaling $1.3 billion and $822 million during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively; and (ii) net sources (uses) of liquid assets totaling ($1.1) billion for each of the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. Included in the above amounts for other MetLife holding companies were uses of liquid assets of $0 and $400 million to fund business acquisitions during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 
    Liquidity and Capital Sources 
  In addition to the description of liquidity and capital sources in    The Company   Summary of the Company s Primary Sources and Uses of Liquidity and Capital  and    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources,  the following additional information is provided regarding MetLife, Inc. s primary sources of liquidity and capital: 
    160 

     Table of Contents  

   Dividends from Subsidiaries 
  MetLife, Inc. relies, in part, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its cash requirements. MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends imposed by the regulators of their respective domiciles. The dividend limitation for U.S. insurance subsidiaries is generally based on the surplus to policyholders at the end of the immediately preceding calendar year and statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year. Statutory accounting practices, as prescribed by insurance regulators of various states in which we conduct business, differ in certain respects from accounting principles used in financial statements prepared in conformity with GAAP. The significant differences relate to the treatment of DAC, certain deferred income tax, required investment liabilities, statutory reserve calculation assumptions, goodwill and surplus notes. 
  The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by MetLife, Inc. s primary insurance subsidiaries without insurance regulatory approval and the respective dividends paid: 
   
 ______________ 
           (1) 
    Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during   2015   without prior regulatory approval. However, because dividend tests may be based on dividends previously paid over rolling 12-month periods, if paid before a specified date during 2015, some or all of such dividends may require regulatory approval. 
              (2) 
    Reflects all amounts paid, including those requiring regulatory approval. 
              (3) 
    Reflects dividend amounts that could have been paid during the relevant year without prior regulatory approval. 
              (4) 
    During December 2014, MLIC distributed shares of an affiliate to MetLife, Inc. as an in-kind dividend of $113 million. 
              (5) 
    During May 2012, American Life received regulatory approval to pay an extraordinary dividend for an amount up to the funds remitted in connection with the restructuring of American Life s business in Japan. Subsequently, $1.5 billion was remitted to American Life. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Of this approved amount, $1.3 billion was paid to MetLife, Inc. as an extraordinary dividend. 
              (6) 
    See   Note   8   for a discussion of the Mergers. 
              (7) 
    Prior to the Mergers, Exeter paid dividends of $155 million on its preferred stock. See    Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings   Issuances of Affiliated Long-term Debt.  In August 2014, MICC redeemed for $1.4 billion and retired 4,595,317 shares of its common stock owned by MetLife Investors Group, LLC ( MLIG ).  Following the redemption, in August 2014, MLIG paid a dividend of $1.4 billion to MetLife, Inc. See   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Affiliated Capital Transactions  for additional information. MetLife USA did not pay dividends in 2014.  
               (9) 
    During June 2012, MICC distributed shares of an affiliate to its stockholders as an in-kind extraordinary dividend of $202 million, as calculated on a statutory basis. Regulatory approval for this extraordinary dividend was obtained due to the timing of payment. During December 2012, MICC paid a dividend to its stockholders in the amount of $504 million, which represented its ordinary dividend capacity at December 31, 2012. Due to the June 2012 in-kind dividend, a portion of this was extraordinary and regulatory approval was obtained. 
       161 

     Table of Contents  

            (10) 
    During October 2013, Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company ( MTL ) distributed shares of an affiliate to MetLife, Inc. as an in-kind dividend of $32 million. Also during October 2013, MTL paid a dividend to MetLife, Inc. in the amount of $77 million in cash, which represented its dividend capacity without regulatory approval at December 31, 2013. Regulatory approval for these dividends was obtained due to the amount and timing of the payments. 
     In addition to the amounts presented in the table above, for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , cash dividends in the aggregate amount of $17 million, $0 and $150 million, respectively, were paid to MetLife, Inc. by certain of its other subsidiaries. Additionally, for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , MetLife, Inc. received cash of $0, $267 million and $9 million, respectively, representing returns of capital from certain subsidiaries. 
  The dividend capacity of our non-U.S. operations is subject to similar restrictions established by the local regulators. The non-U.S. regulatory regimes also commonly limit the dividend payments to the parent to a portion of the prior year s statutory income, as determined by the local accounting principles. The regulators of our non-U.S. operations, including Japan s Financial Services Agency, may also limit or not permit profit repatriations or other transfers of funds to the U.S. if such transfers are deemed to be detrimental to the solvency or financial strength of the non-U.S. operations, or for other reasons. Most of the non-U.S. subsidiaries are second tier subsidiaries which are owned by various non-U.S. holding companies. The capital and rating considerations applicable to the first tier subsidiaries may also impact the dividend flow into MetLife, Inc. 
  We actively manage target and excess capital levels and dividend flows on a proactive basis and forecast local capital positions as part of the financial planning cycle. The dividend capacity of certain U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries is also subject to business targets in excess of the minimum capital necessary to maintain the desired rating or level of financial strength in the relevant market. We cannot provide assurance that MetLife, Inc. s subsidiaries will have statutory earnings to support payment of dividends to MetLife, Inc. in an amount sufficient to fund its cash requirements and pay cash dividends and that the applicable regulators will not disapprove any dividends that such subsidiaries must submit for approval. See  Risk Factors   Capital-Related Risks   As a Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and Pay Dividends  and Note   16   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Short-term Debt 
  MetLife, Inc. maintains a commercial paper program, the proceeds of which can be used to finance the general liquidity needs of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries. MetLife, Inc. had no short-term debt outstanding at both December 31,   2014   and   2013  . 
  Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings 
  For information on MetLife, Inc. s unaffiliated debt issuances and other borrowings, see    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Global Funding Sources   Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings.  
  Issuances of Affiliated Long-term Debt  
  In December 2013, MetLife, Inc. issued a $350 million senior note to MetLife Reinsurance Company of Delaware ( MRD ) due December 2033. The senior note bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.10%, payable semi-annually. MRD issued a $350 million surplus note to MetLife, Inc. in exchange for the senior note. 
  In December 2012, Exeter reassigned $1.25 billion of its affiliated senior notes to MetLife, Inc. These senior notes included (i) a $250 million senior note maturing on September 30, 2016 and bearing interest at a fixed rate of 7.44%, payable semi-annually, (ii) a $500 million senior note maturing on July 15, 2021 and bearing interest at a fixed rate of 5.64%, payable semi-annually, and (iii) a $500 million senior note maturing on December 16, 2021 and bearing interest at a fixed rate of 5.86%, payable semi-annually. MetLife, Inc. received, in exchange for the assumption of this affiliated debt, $1.25 billion of preferred stock of Exeter. In November 2014, upon the consummation of the Mergers, the outstanding preferred stock of Exeter was canceled. Consequently, MetLife, Inc. s investment in this Exeter preferred capital stock was added to its common capital stock investment in MetLife USA. 
  In December 2012, MetLife, Inc. issued a $750 million senior note to MRD due September 30, 2032. The senior note bears interest at a fixed rate of 4.21%, payable semi-annually. MRD issued a $750 million surplus note to MetLife, Inc. in exchange for the senior note.  
    162 

     Table of Contents  

   In September 2012, Exeter reassigned $750 million of its affiliated senior notes to MetLife, Inc. MetLife, Inc. received, in exchange for the assumption of this affiliated debt, $750 million of preferred stock of Exeter. In November 2014, upon the consummation of the Mergers, the outstanding preferred stock of Exeter was canceled. Consequently, MetLife, Inc. s investment in this Exeter preferred capital stock was added to its common capital stock investment in MetLife USA. On September 30, 2012, $250 million of the assumed senior notes matured and, subsequently, in October 2012, MetLife, Inc. issued a $250 million senior note to MLIC. The $250 million senior note matures in October 2019 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.57%, payable semi-annually. The remaining $500 million senior note matured and, subsequently, in June 2014, MetLife, Inc. issued a new $500 million senior note to MLIC. The $500 million senior note matures in June 2019 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.54%, payable semi-annually. 
  Collateral Financing Arrangements and Junior Subordinated Debt Securities 
  For information on MetLife, Inc. s collateral financing arrangements and junior subordinated debt securities, see Notes   13   and   14   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively. 
  Credit and Committed Facilities 
  See    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Global Funding Sources   Credit and Committed Facilities  for information about MetLife, Inc. s credit facility. 
  MetLife, Inc. maintains a committed facility with a capacity of $520 million. At December 31,   2014  , MetLife, Inc. had outstanding $470 million in letters of credit and no drawdowns against this facility. Remaining availability was $50 million at December 31,   2014  . In addition, MetLife, Inc. is a party and/or guarantor to committed facilities of certain of its subsidiaries, which aggregated $11.7 billion at December 31,   2014  . The committed facilities are used as collateral for certain of the Company s affiliated reinsurance liabilities. 
  See    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources   Global Funding Sources   Credit and Committed Facilities,  as well as Note   12   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding these facilities. 
  Long-term Debt Outstanding 
  The following table summarizes the outstanding long-term debt of MetLife, Inc. at: 

Debt and Facility Covenants 
  Certain of MetLife, Inc. s debt instruments and committed facilities, as well as its credit facility, contain various administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. MetLife, Inc. believes it was in compliance with all such covenants at December 31,   2014  . 
  Dispositions 
  Cash proceeds from dispositions during the years ended December 31,   2014   and   2013   were $7 million and $17 million, respectively. During the year ended December 31,   2012  , there were no cash proceeds from dispositions. See Note   3   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    163 

     Table of Contents  

   Liquidity and Capital Uses 
  The primary uses of liquidity of MetLife, Inc. include debt service, cash dividends on common and preferred stock, capital contributions to subsidiaries, common stock repurchases, payment of general operating expenses and acquisitions. Based on our analysis and comparison of our current and future cash inflows from the dividends we receive from subsidiaries that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory approval, our investment portfolio and other cash flows and anticipated access to the capital markets, we believe there will be sufficient liquidity and capital to enable MetLife, Inc. to make payments on debt, pay cash dividends on its common and preferred stock, contribute capital to its subsidiaries, repurchase its common stock, pay all general operating expenses and meet its cash needs. 
  In addition to the description of liquidity and capital uses in    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses  and    The Company   Contractual Obligations,  the following additional information is provided regarding MetLife, Inc. s primary uses of liquidity and capital: 
  Affiliated Capital Transactions 
  During the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , MetLife, Inc. invested an aggregate of $1.8 billion, $934 million and $3.5 billion, respectively, in various subsidiaries. 
  MetLife, Inc. lends funds, as necessary, to its subsidiaries and affiliates, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital requirements. MetLife, Inc. had loans to subsidiaries outstanding of $1.7 billion and $2.3 billion at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  In December 2014, MetLife, Inc. entered into a five-year agreement with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Bermuda, Ltd. ( MrB ), a Bermuda insurance affiliate and an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc., to lend up to $500 million to MrB on a revolving basis.  There were no loans outstanding at December 31, 2014. 
  In August 2014, MICC paid to MLIG $1.4 billion to redeem and retire its common stock owned by MLIG; as a result, all of the outstanding shares of common stock of MICC were directly held by MetLife, Inc. Following the redemption, in August 2014, MLIG paid a dividend of $1.4 billion to MetLife, Inc., and MetLife, Inc. made a capital contribution to MICC of $231 million. 
  In December 2014, American Life issued a $100 million surplus note to MetLife, Inc. The surplus note bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.17%, payable semi-annually and matures in June 2020. 
  In August 2014, American Life issued a $120 million short-term note to MetLife, Inc. which was repaid in December 2014. In February 2014, American Life issued a $150 million short-term note to MetLife, Inc. which was repaid in June 2014. Both short-term notes bore interest at six-month LIBOR plus 0.875%. 
  In December 2013, MRD issued a $350 million surplus note to MetLife, Inc. due December 2033. The surplus note bears interest at a fixed rate of 6.00%, payable semi-annually. MetLife, Inc. issued a $350 million senior note to MRD in exchange for the surplus note. 
  In July 2013, MetLife Ireland Treasury Limited ( MITL ) borrowed the Chilean peso equivalent of $1.5 billion from MetLife, Inc., which is due July 2023. The loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 8.5%, payable annually. In each of December 2014, June 2014, and December 2013, MITL made a payment of the Chilean peso equivalent of $493 million, $69 million and $245 million, respectively. At December 31, 2014, the remaining balance on the loan was $509 million. 
   In April 2013, MetLife Bank s Board of Directors, with prior approval of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, approved the reduction of its permanent capital by $550 million through a purchase of its $300 million of outstanding preferred stock held by MetLife, Inc. and a return of capital of $250 million to MetLife, Inc. In May 2013, MetLife, Inc. received $550 million in cash to settle these transactions. 
  In December 2012, MRD issued a $750 million surplus note to MetLife, Inc. due September 2032. The surplus note bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.13%, payable semi-annually. MetLife, Inc. issued a $750 million senior note to MRD in exchange for the surplus note. 
  Debt Repayments 
  For information on MetLife, Inc. s debt repayments, see    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Debt Repayments.  MetLife, Inc. intends to repay or refinance, in whole or in part, all the debt that is due in   2015  . 
    164 

     Table of Contents  

   Maturities of Senior Notes 
  The following table summarizes MetLife, Inc. s outstanding senior notes by year of maturity through 2019 and 2020 to 2045, excluding any premium or discount, at December 31,   2014  : 

Support Agreements 
  MetLife, Inc. is party to various capital support commitments and guarantees with certain of its subsidiaries. Under these arrangements, MetLife, Inc. has agreed to cause each such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels or has guaranteed certain contractual obligations. See    The Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Support Agreements.  
  In October 2013, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed two 2.47% two-year notes totaling $500 million issued by Exeter to its affiliates, MICC and MLI-USA. In November 2014, upon consummation of the Mergers, the notes were canceled. Consequently, the related MetLife, Inc. guarantee is no longer in effect. 
  In January 2013, MetLife, Inc. entered into an 18-month agreement with MetLife Bank to lend up to $500 million to MetLife Bank on a revolving basis. In January 2013, MetLife Bank both drew down and repaid $400 million under the agreement, which bore interest at a rate of three-month LIBOR plus 1.75%. In February 2013, the agreement was amended to reduce borrowing capacity to $100 million. MetLife Bank's rights and obligations under the agreement succeeded to MLHL upon the merger of MetLife Bank with and into MLHL. On October 29, 2013, MetLife, Inc. and MLHL agreed to terminate the agreement. There were no loans outstanding at such date. 
  MetLife, Inc., in connection with MRD s reinsurance of certain universal life and term life risks, entered into capital maintenance agreements pursuant to which MetLife, Inc. agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause the first and second protected cells of MRD to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of each such protected cell s company action level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes. In addition, MetLife, Inc. expects to enter into an agreement with the Delaware Department of Insurance to increase such capital maintenance threshold to 300% of each such protected cell s company action level RBC, in the event of specified downgrades in the senior unsecured debt ratings of MetLife, Inc. 
  MetLife, Inc. guarantees the obligations of its subsidiary, DelAm, under a stop loss reinsurance agreement with RGA Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc. ( RGARe ), pursuant to which RGARe retrocedes to DelAm a portion of the whole life medical insurance business that RGARe assumed from American Life on behalf of its Japan operations. Also, MetLife, Inc. guarantees the obligations of its subsidiary, Missouri Reinsurance, Inc. ( MoRe ), under a retrocession agreement with RGARe, pursuant to which MoRe retrocedes certain group term life insurance liabilities and a portion of the closed block liabilities associated with industrial life and ordinary life insurance policies that it assumed from MLIC.  
  Prior to the sale in April 2011 of its 50% interest in Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Co., Ltd. ( MSI MetLife ) to a third party, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of its subsidiary, Exeter, under a reinsurance agreement with MSI MetLife, under which Exeter reinsured variable annuity business written by MSI MetLife. This guarantee remained in place following the April 2011 disposition of MetLife, Inc. s interest in MSI MetLife, now known as Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Company Limited ( Mitsui ). In November 2014, in order to remove foreign reinsurance risks from Exeter prior to the Mergers, Mitsui recaptured this business from Exeter and then reinsured it with MrB. The MetLife, Inc. guarantee of Exeter s former reinsurance obligations to Mitsui was replaced by a MetLife, Inc. guarantee of MrB s reinsurance obligations to Mitsui. 
    165 

     Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc. had guaranteed the obligations of Exeter in an aggregate amount up to $1.0 billion, under a reinsurance agreement with MetLife Europe Limited ( MEL ), under which Exeter reinsured the guaranteed living benefits and guaranteed death benefits associated with certain unit-linked annuity contracts issued by MEL. In November 2014, in order to remove foreign reinsurance risks from Exeter prior to the Mergers, MEL recaptured this business from Exeter and then reinsured it with MrB. The MetLife, Inc. guarantee of Exeter s former reinsurance obligations to MEL was replaced by a MetLife, Inc. guarantee of MrB s reinsurance obligations to MEL. 
  MetLife, Inc., in connection with MRV s reinsurance of certain universal life and term life insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take necessary action to cause the three protected cells of MRV to maintain total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 200% of each such protected cell s authorized control level RBC, as defined in Vermont state insurance statutes. See Note   12   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MRC s reinsurance of a portion of the liabilities associated with the closed block, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to make capital contributions, if necessary, to MRC so that MRC may at all times maintain its total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 200% of the company action level RBC, as defined in South Carolina state insurance statutes as in effect on the date of determination or December 31, 2007, whichever calculation produces the greater capital requirement, or as otherwise required by the South Carolina Department of Insurance. See Note   13   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina s ( MRSC ) reinsurance of ULSG, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary action to cause MRSC to maintain the greater of capital and surplus of $250,000 or total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 100% of authorized control level RBC, as defined in South Carolina state insurance statutes. See Note   13   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  MetLife, Inc. has a net worth maintenance agreement with its insurance subsidiary, First MetLife Investors Insurance Company ( First MetLife ). Under this agreement, as amended, MetLife, Inc. agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause First MetLife to have capital and surplus of $10 million, total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by applicable state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. A similar net worth maintenance agreement between MetLife, Inc. and its former subsidiary, MLIIC, was terminated in accordance with its terms following the Mergers. 
  MetLife, Inc. guarantees obligations arising from derivatives of the following subsidiaries: MrB, MetLife International Holdings, Inc. and MetLife Worldwide Holdings, Inc. Prior to the Mergers, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed obligations arising from derivatives of Exeter. These subsidiaries are exposed to various risks relating to their ongoing business operations, including interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, credit and equity market. These subsidiaries use a variety of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivatives. Further, all of the subsidiaries  derivatives are subject to industry standard netting agreements and collateral agreements that limit the unsecured portion of any open derivative position. On a net counterparty basis at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , derivative transactions with positive mark-to-market values (in-the-money) were $499 million and $568 million, respectively, and derivative transactions with negative mark-to-market values (out-of-the-money) were $102 million and $734 million, respectively. To secure the obligations represented by the out of-the-money transactions, the subsidiaries had provided collateral to their counterparties with an estimated fair value of $96 million and $651 million at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Accordingly, unsecured derivative liabilities guaranteed by MetLife, Inc. were $6 million and $83 million at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  MetLife, Inc. also guarantees the obligations of certain of its subsidiaries under committed facilities with third-party banks. See Note   12   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Acquisitions 
  During the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , there were no cash outflows for acquisitions. See Note   3   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company s acquisitions. 
    Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements 
  See Note   1   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements 
  See Note   1   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    Non-GAAP and Other Financial Disclosures 
  Operating earnings is defined as operating revenues less operating expenses, both net of income tax. Operating earnings available to common shareholders is defined as operating earnings less preferred stock dividends. 
  Operating revenues and operating expenses exclude results of discontinued operations and other businesses that have been or will be sold or exited by MetLife and are referred to as divested businesses. Operating revenues also excludes net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses). Operating expenses also excludes goodwill impairments. 
  The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP revenues, in the line items indicated, in calculating operating revenues: 
             
    Universal life and investment-type product policy fees excludes the amortization of unearned revenue related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) and certain variable annuity GMIB fees ( GMIB Fees  
                
    Net investment income: (i) includes amounts for scheduled periodic settlement payments and amortization of premium on derivatives that are hedges of investments or that are used to replicate certain investments, but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, (ii) includes income from discontinued real estate operations, (iii) excludes post-tax operating earnings adjustments relating to insurance joint ventures accounted for under the equity method, (iv) excludes certain amounts related to contractholder-directed unit-linked investments, and (v) excludes certain amounts related to securitization entities that are VIEs consolidated under GAAP; and 
                
    Other revenues are adjusted for settlements of foreign currency earnings hedges. 
       166 

     Table of Contents  

   The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP expenses, in the line items indicated, in calculating operating expenses: 
             
    Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends excludes: (i) changes in the policyholder dividend obligation related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) inflation-indexed benefit adjustments associated with contracts backed by inflation-indexed investments and amounts associated with periodic crediting rate adjustments based on the total return of a contractually referenced pool of assets and other pass through adjustments ( Inflation and Pass Through Adjustments ) (iii) benefits and hedging costs related to GMIBs ( GMIB Costs ), and (iv) market value adjustments associated with surrenders or terminations of contracts ( Market Value Adjustments  
                
    Interest credited to policyholder account balances includes adjustments for scheduled periodic settlement payments and amortization of premium on derivatives that are hedges of PABs but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and excludes amounts related to net investment income earned on contractholder-directed unit-linked investments; 
                
    Amortization of DAC and VOBA excludes amounts related to: (i) net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) GMIB Fees and GMIB Costs, and (iii) Market Value Adjustments; 
                
    Amortization of negative VOBA excludes amounts related to Market Value Adjustments; 
                
    Interest expense on debt excludes certain amounts related to securitization entities that are VIEs consolidated under GAAP; and 
                
    Other expenses excludes costs related to: (i) noncontrolling interests, (ii) implementation of new insurance regulatory requirements, and (iii) acquisition and integration costs. 
     Operating earnings also excludes the recognition of certain contingent assets and liabilities that could not be recognized at acquisition or adjusted for during the measurement period under GAAP business combination accounting guidance. In addition to the tax impact of the adjustments mentioned above, provision for income tax expense (benefit) also includes the impact related to the timing of certain tax credits, as well as certain tax reforms. 
  We believe the presentation of operating earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of our business. Operating revenues, operating expenses, operating earnings, and operating earnings available to common shareholders should not be viewed as substitutes for the following financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP: GAAP revenues, GAAP expenses, income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax, and net income (loss) available to MetLife, Inc. s common shareholders, respectively. Reconciliations of these measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in    Results of Operations.  
  In this discussion, we sometimes refer to sales activity for various products. These sales statistics do not correspond to revenues under GAAP, but are used as relevant measures of business activity. The following additional information is relevant to an understanding of our financial results:  
             
    Operating ROE is defined as operating earnings available to common shareholders, divided by average GAAP common stockholders  equity;  
                
    Operating ROE, excluding AOCI other than FCTA, is defined as operating earnings available to common shareholders divided by average GAAP common stockholders  equity, excluding AOCI other than FCTA;  
                
    The impact of changes in our foreign currency exchange rates is calculated using the average foreign currency exchange rates for the current year and is applied to each of the comparable years; and 
                
    Asymmetrical GAAP accounting treatment for insurance contracts refers to Inflation and Pass Through Adjustments as noted above within the definition of operating expenses. 
     In this discussion, we also provide forward-looking guidance on an operating, or non-GAAP, basis. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is not accessible on a forward-looking basis because we believe it is not possible to provide other than a range of net investment gains and losses and net derivative gains and losses, which can fluctuate significantly within or outside the range and from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income. 
    Subsequent Events 
  See Note   23   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    167 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
  Risk Management 
  We have developed an integrated process for managing risk, which we conduct through multiple Board and senior management committees (financial and non-financial) within the GRM, ALM Unit, Treasury Department and Investments Department. The risk committee structure is designed to provide a consolidated enterprise-wide assessment and management of risk. The ERC is responsible for reviewing all material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions, if necessary, in the event risks exceed desired tolerances, taking into consideration industry best practices and the current environment to resolve or mitigate those risks. Additional committees at the MetLife, Inc. and subsidiary insurance company level that manage capital and risk positions, approve ALM strategies and establish corporate business standards, report to the ERC.  
  Global Risk Management 
  Independent from the lines of business, the centralized GRM, led by the CRO collaborates and coordinates across all committees to ensure that all material risks are properly identified, measured, aggregated and reported across the Company. The CRO reports to the CEO and is primarily responsible for maintaining and communicating the Company s enterprise risk policies and for monitoring and analyzing all material risks. 
  GRM considers and monitors a full range of risks against the Company s solvency, liquidity, earnings, business operations and reputation. GRM s primary responsibilities consist of: 
             
    implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines our enterprise approach for managing risk; 
                
    developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; 
                
    establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; 
                
    deploying capital on an economic basis; 
                
    recommending capital allocations on an economic capital basis; and 
                
    reporting to (i) the Finance and Risk Committee of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors; (ii) the Investment Committee of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors; and (iii) the financial and non-financial senior management committees on various aspects of risk. 
     Asset/Liability Management 
  We actively manage our assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. The goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The ALM process is the shared responsibility of the ALM Unit, GRM, the Portfolio Management Unit, and the senior members of the business segments and is governed by the ALM Committees. The ALM Committees  duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the ALM process on a periodic basis. The directives of the ALM Committees are carried out and monitored through ALM Working Groups which are set up to manage by product type. In addition, our ALM Steering Committee oversees the activities of the underlying ALM Committees. The ALM Steering Committee reports to the ERC. 
  We establish target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund our liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. These strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality by the ALM Working Groups. 
  Market Risk Exposures 
  We regularly analyze our exposure to interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate risks. As a result of that analysis, we have determined that the estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the equity markets. We have exposure to market risk through our insurance operations and investment activities. For purposes of this disclosure,  market risk  is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. 
    168 

       Table of Contents  

   Interest Rates 
  Our exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from our holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as our interest rate sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturity securities include U.S. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities and ABS, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. The interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, PABs related to certain investment type contracts, and net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. We employ product design, pricing and ALM strategies to reduce the potential effects of interest rate movements. Product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset crediting rates for certain products. ALM strategies include the use of derivatives and duration mismatch limits. See  Risk Factors   Economic Environment and Capital Markets-Related Risks   We Are Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risks Which May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Liquidity, and May Cause Our Net Investment Income to Vary from Period to Period.  
  Foreign Currency Exchange Rates 
  Our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar results from our holdings in non-U.S. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through our investments in foreign subsidiaries. The principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in our investment portfolios and liabilities are the Euro, the Japanese yen and the British pound. Selectively, we use U.S. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. Through our investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, we are primarily exposed to the Japanese yen, the Euro, the Polish zloty, the Australian dollar, the Mexican peso, the Chilean peso and the Korean won. In addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries is held entirely or in part in U.S. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. We have matched much of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing our risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. See  Risk Factors   Risks Related to Our Business   Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability.  
  Equity Market 
  Along with investments in equity securities, we have exposure to equity market risk through certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance such as net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits and certain PABs. We manage this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our ALM strategies including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity guarantee benefits, as well as reinsurance, in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to large risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. We also manage equity market risk exposure in our investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. Equity exposures associated with other limited partnership interests are excluded from this discussion as they are not considered financial instruments under GAAP. 
  Management of Market Risk Exposures 
  We use a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk, including the use of derivatives. 
  Interest Rate Risk Management 
  To manage interest rate risk, we analyze interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivatives. These projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of our in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. The Department of Financial Services regulations require that we perform some of these analyses annually as part of our review of the sufficiency of our regulatory reserves. For several of our legal entities, we maintain segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of ALM and the allocation of investment income to product lines. For each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the GAAP liabilities and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess allocated to Corporate   Other. The business segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. Certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. We measure relative sensitivities of the value of our assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing internal models. These models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. In addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage loan prepayments and defaults. 
    169 

       Table of Contents  

   Common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. In computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how we intend to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. Each asset portfolio has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. Where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and group products, we may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or interest rate curve mismatch strategies. 
  Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Management 
  We assume foreign currency exchange rate risk primarily in three ways: investments in foreign subsidiaries, purchases of foreign currency denominated investments and the sale of certain insurance products. 
             
    The GRM s Foreign Exchange Committee, in coordination with the Treasury Department, is responsible for managing our exposure to investments in foreign subsidiaries. Exposure limits are established by the Treasury Department and monitored by GRM. The Investments Department manages such exposure. 
                
    The Investments Department is responsible for managing the exposure to foreign currency denominated investments. Exposure limits to unhedged foreign currency investments are incorporated into the standing authorizations granted to management by the Board of Directors and are reported to the Board of Directors on a periodic basis. 
                
    Management of each of the Company s segments, with oversight from the Foreign Exchange Committee, is responsible for establishing limits and managing any foreign currency exchange rate exposure caused by the sale or issuance of insurance products. 
     We use foreign currency swaps, forwards and options to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and financial statement volatility associated with our investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and the sale of certain insurance products. 
  Equity Market Risk Management 
  The issuance of variable annuities exposes us to market risk. This risk is managed by our ALM Unit in partnership with the Investments Department. Equity market risk is also assumed through our investment in equity securities and is managed by our Investments Department. We use derivatives to mitigate our equity exposure both in certain liability guarantees such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefit and equity securities. These derivatives include exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts and equity variance swaps. We also employ reinsurance to manage these exposures. 
  Hedging Activities 
  We use derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and equity market risk. Derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on accounting results and GAAP and statutory capital. Our derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. Some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. Our use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows: 
             
    Risks Related to Living Guarantee Benefits   We use a wide range of derivative contracts to mitigate the risk associated with variable annuity living guarantee benefits. These derivatives include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options and interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps. 
                
    Minimum Interest Rate Guarantees   For certain liability contracts, we provide the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate. These contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. We purchase interest rate floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees. 
                
    Reinvestment Risk in Long Duration Liability Contracts   Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long duration liability contracts. Hedges include interest rate swaps and swaptions. 
                
    Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk   We use currency swaps, forwards and options to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risk. These hedges primarily swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity market exposures to U.S. dollars. 
                
    General ALM Hedging Strategies   In the ordinary course of managing our asset/liability risks, we use interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps. These hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows. 
       170 

       Table of Contents  

   Risk Measurement: Sensitivity Analysis 
  We measure market risk related to our market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. This analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. We believe that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near term. In performing the analysis summarized below, we used market rates at December 31,   2014  . The sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of our market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange rate) relating to our trading and non-trading assets and liabilities. We modeled the impact of changes in market rates a  nd prices on the estimated fair values of our market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows: 
             
    the net present values of our interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; 
                
    the U.S. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of our foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in foreign currency exchange rates; and 
                
    the estimated fair value of our equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices. 
     The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of our future financial performance. We cannot ensure that our actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. Limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: 
             
    the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgage loans; 
                
    for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; 
                
    the analysis excludes liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts and real estate holdings; and 
                
    the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period. 
     Accordingly, we use such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of our management. Based on our analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, we have determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market exposures. 
  The table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of our market sensitive assets and liabilities at: 

171 

       Table of Contents  

   The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our trading and non-trading interest sensitive financial instruments by type of asset or liability at: 
   
 ______________ 
    172 

       Table of Contents  

(1) 
    Separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated PABs, which are interest rate sensitive, are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the contractholder. Mortgage loans, FVO and trading securities and long-term debt exclude $280 million, $15 million and $151 million, respectively, related to CSEs. See Note   8   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding CSEs. 
              (2) 
    Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. 
              (3) 
    Excludes $204.0 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. These liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in the yield curve. 
     Interest rate risk decreased by $1.6 billion, or 23%, to $5.2 billion at December 31,   2014   from $6.8 billion at December 31,   2013  . This change was primarily due to a decrease in interest rates across the swap and U.S. Treasury curves of $1.1 billion and a change in the asset base of $296 million. Additionally, the use of derivatives by the Company, primarily due to the sale of MAL, contributed to the decline by $235 million. 
    173 

       Table of Contents  

   The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates by type of asset or liability at: 

______________ 
    174 

       Table of Contents  

(1) 
    Does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. Separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated PABs, which are foreign currency exchange rate sensitive, are not included herein as any foreign currency exchange rate risk is borne by the contractholder. Mortgage loans, FVO and trading securities and long-term debt exclude $280 million, $15 million and $151 million, respectively, related to CSEs. See Note   8   of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding CSEs. 
              (2) 
    Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. 
              (3) 
    Excludes $204.0 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. These liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in foreign currency exchange rates. 
     Foreign currency exchange rate risk decreased by $811 million, or 12%, to $5.8 billion at December 31,   2014   from $6.6 billion at December 31,   2013  . This change was primarily due to a net decrease in exchange risk relating to PABs, fixed maturities, cash and cash equivalents and the use of derivatives by the Company. 
    175 

       Table of Contents  

   The table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% change in equity by type of asset or liability at: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to equity price risk. Additionally, separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated PABs, which are equity market sensitive, are not included herein as any equity market risk is borne by the contractholder. 
              (2) 
    Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. 
     Equity price risk decreased by $17 million to $78 million at December 31,   2014   from $95 million at December 31,   2013  . This decrease was primarily due to the use of derivatives by the Company and an increase in equity securities holdings.  
    
    176 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements, Notes and Schedules   

    177 

       Table of Contents  

   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  New York, New York 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31,   2014   and   2013  , and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,   2014  . Our audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements, Notes and Schedules. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31,   2014   and   2013  , and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,   2014  , in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. 
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2014  , based on the criteria established in   Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report, dated February 26, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 
  /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
  New York, New York 
  February 26, 2015 
    178 

       Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc. 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets 
  December 31,   2014   and   2013 
  (In millions, except share and per share data)   
 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 
    179 

       Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc. 
  Consolidated Statements of Operations 
  For the Years Ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012 
  (In millions, except per share data) 

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 
    180 

       Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc. 
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
  For the Years Ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012 
  (In millions) 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests excludes gains of redeemable noncontrolling interests of   less than   $1 million   for each of the years ended December 31,   2014   and   2013  , and   $9 million   for the year ended December 31,   2012  . 
     See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 
    181 

       Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc. 
  Consolidated Statements of Equity 
  For the Years Ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012    
  (In millions) 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests excludes gains of redeemable noncontrolling interests of less than   $1 million   for each of the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, and   $9 million   for the year ended December 31, 2012. 
     See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 
    182 

       Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc. 
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
  For the Years Ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012    
  (In millions)   

  See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 
    183 

       Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc. 
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   (Continued) 
  For the Years Ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012 
  (In millions) 

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 
      
    184 

       Table of Contents  
    
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 

   1. Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
    Business 
   MetLife  and the  Company  refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates. MetLife is a global provider of life insurance, annuities, employee benefits and asset management. MetLife is organized into   six   segments: Retail; Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits; Corporate Benefit Funding; and Latin America (collectively, the  Americas  Asia; and Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA ). 
  Basis of Presentation 
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ) requires management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. In applying these policies and estimates, management makes subjective and complex judgments that frequently require assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to the Company s business and operations. Actual results could differ from estimates. 
  Consolidation 
  The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, as well as partnerships and joint ventures in which the Company has control, and variable interest entities ( VIEs ) for which the Company is the primary beneficiary. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. 
  Certain international subsidiaries have a fiscal year cutoff of November 30. Accordingly, the Company s consolidated financial statements reflect the assets and liabilities of such subsidiaries as of November 30,   2014   and   2013   and the operating results of such subsidiaries for the years ended November 30,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  . 
  Discontinued Operations 
  The results of operations of a component of the Company that has either been disposed of or is classified as held-for-sale are reported in discontinued operations if certain criteria are met. Effective January 1, 2014, the Company early adopted new guidance regarding reporting of discontinued operations for disposals or classifications as held-for-sale that have not been previously reported in the consolidated financial statements. A disposal of a component is reported in discontinued operations if the disposal represents a strategic shift that has or will have a major effect on the Company s operations and financial results.  See    Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements.  
  Separate Accounts 
  Separate accounts are established in conformity with insurance laws and are generally not chargeable with liabilities that arise from any other business of the Company. Separate account assets are subject to general account claims only to the extent the value of such assets exceeds the separate account liabilities. The Company reports separately, as assets and liabilities, investments held in separate accounts and liabilities of the separate accounts if: 
             
    such separate accounts are legally recognized; 
                
    assets supporting the contract liabilities are legally insulated from the Company s general account liabilities; 
                
    investments are directed by the contractholder; and 
                
    all investment performance, net of contract fees and assessments, is passed through to the contractholder. 
     The Company reports separate account assets at their fair value which is based on the estimated fair values of the underlying assets comprising the individual separate account portfolios. Investment performance (including investment income, net investment gains (losses) and changes in unrealized gains (losses)) and the corresponding amounts credited to contractholders of such separate accounts are offset within the same line in the statements of operations. Separate accounts credited with a contractual investment return are combined on a line-by-line basis with the Company s general account assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the accounting for these investments is consistent with the methodologies described herein for similar financial instruments held within the general account. Unit-linked separate account investments that are directed by contractholders but do not meet one or more of the other above criteria are included in fair value option ( FVO ) and trading securities. 
  The Company s revenues reflect fees charged to the separate accounts, including mortality charges, risk charges, policy administration fees, investment management fees and surrender charges. Such fees are included in universal life and investment-type product policy fees in the statements of operations. 
    185 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

   Reclassifications 
  Amounts in the prior years  consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform with the 2014 presentation. Certain derivatives (gains) losses were previously reported in: (i) (gains) losses on investments and sales of businesses, net; and (ii) other, net and were reclassified to (gains) losses on derivatives, net. The following table presents such reclassifications, all within cash flows from operating activities, in the consolidated statements of cash flows: 

Additionally, certain amounts in the prior years  footnotes have been reclassified to conform with the current year presentation as discussed throughout the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
  The following are the Company s significant accounting policies with references to notes providing additional information on such policies and critical accounting estimates relating to such policies. 
                 Accounting Policy 
    Note 
      Insurance 
    4 
      Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs, Value of Business Acquired and Other Intangibles 
    5 
      Reinsurance 
    6 
      Investments 
    8 
      Derivatives 
    9 
      Fair Value 
    10 
      Goodwill 
    11 
      Employee Benefit Plans 
    18 
      Income Tax 
    19 
      Litigation Contingencies 
    21 

Insurance 
  Future Policy Benefit Liabilities and Policyholder Account Balances 
  The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under insurance policies. Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of future expected benefits to be paid reduced by the present value of future expected premiums. Such liabilities are established based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, disability incidence, disability terminations, investment returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective product type and geographical area. These assumptions are established at the time the policy is issued and are intended to estimate the experience for the period the policy benefits are payable. Utilizing these assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of business basis. For long duration insurance contracts, assumptions such as mortality, morbidity and interest rates are  locked in  upon the issuance of new business. However, significant adverse changes in experience on such contracts may require the establishment of premium deficiency reserves. Such reserves are determined based on the then current assumptions and do not include a provision for adverse deviation. 
    186 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

   Premium deficiency reserves may also be established for short duration contracts to provide for expected future losses. These reserves are based on actuarial estimates of the amount of loss inherent in that period, including losses incurred for which claims have not been reported. The provisions for unreported claims are calculated using studies that measure the historical length of time between the incurred date of a claim and its eventual reporting to the Company. Anticipated investment income is considered in the calculation of premium deficiency losses for short duration contracts. 
  Liabilities for universal and variable life policies with secondary guarantees ( ULSG ) and paid-up guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The assumptions used in estimating the secondary and paid-up guarantee liabilities are consistent with those used for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs ( DAC ), and are thus subject to the same variability and risk as further discussed herein. The assumptions of investment performance and volatility for variable products are consistent with historical experience of appropriate underlying equity indices, such as the Standard   Poor s Ratings Services ( S P ) 500 Index. The benefits used in calculating the liabilities are based on the average benefits payable over a range of scenarios. 
  The Company regularly reviews its estimates of liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with its actual experience. Differences result in changes to the liability balances with related charges or credits to benefit expenses in the period in which the changes occur. 
  Policyholder account balances ( PABs ) relate to contract or contract features where the Company has no significant insurance risk. 
  The Company issues directly and assumes through reinsurance certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits that provide the policyholder a minimum return based on their initial deposit (i.e., the benefit base) less withdrawals. These guarantees are accounted for as insurance liabilities or as embedded derivatives depending on how and when the benefit is paid. Specifically, a guarantee is accounted for as an embedded derivative if a guarantee is paid without requiring (i) the occurrence of specific insurable event, or (ii) the policyholder to annuitize. Alternatively, a guarantee is accounted for as an insurance liability if the guarantee is paid only upon either (i) the occurrence of a specific insurable event, or (ii) annuitization. In certain cases, a guarantee may have elements of both an insurance liability and an embedded derivative and in such cases the guarantee is split and accounted for under both models. 
  Guarantees accounted for as insurance liabilities in future policy benefits include guaranteed minimum death benefits ( GMDBs ), the portion of guaranteed minimum income benefits ( GMIBs ) that require annuitization, and the life-contingent portion of guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ( GMWBs ). 
  Guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives in PABs include the non life-contingent portion of GMWBs, guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ( GMABs ) and the portion of GMIBs that do not require annuitization. At inception, the Company attributes to the embedded derivative a portion of the projected future guarantee fees to be collected from the policyholder equal to the present value of projected future guaranteed benefits. Any additional fees represent  excess  fees and are reported in universal life and investment-type product policy fees. 
  Other Policy-Related Balances 
  Other policy-related balances include policy and contract claims, unearned revenue liabilities, premiums received in advance, policyholder dividends due and unpaid, policyholder dividends left on deposit and negative value of business acquired. 
  The liability for policy and contract claims generally relates to incurred but not reported death, disability, long-term care ( LTC ) and dental claims, as well as claims which have been reported but not yet settled. The liability for these claims is based on the Company s estimated ultimate cost of settling all claims. The Company derives estimates for the development of incurred but not reported claims principally from analyses of historical patterns of claims by business line. The methods used to determine these estimates are continually reviewed. Adjustments resulting from this continuous review process and differences between estimates and payments for claims are recognized in policyholder benefits and claims expense in the period in which the estimates are changed or payments are made. 
  The unearned revenue liability relates to universal life-type and investment-type products and represents policy charges for services to be provided in future periods. The charges are deferred as unearned revenue and amortized using the product s estimated gross profits and margins, similar to DAC as discussed further herein. Such amortization is recorded in universal life and investment-type product policy fees. 
    187 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

   The Company accounts for the prepayment of premiums on its individual life, group life and health contracts as premiums received in advance and applies the cash received to premiums when due. 
  See    Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs, Value of Business Acquired and Other Intangibles  for a discussion of negative value of business acquired. 
  Recognition of Insurance Revenues and Deposits 
  Premiums related to traditional life, annuity policies with life contingencies, long-duration accident   health, and credit insurance policies are recognized as revenues when due from policyholders. Policyholder benefits and expenses are provided to recognize profits over the estimated lives of the insurance policies. When premiums are due over a significantly shorter period than the period over which benefits are provided, any excess profit is deferred and recognized into earnings in a constant relationship to insurance in-force or, for annuities, the amount of expected future policy benefit payments. 
  Premiums related to short-duration non-medical health and disability, accident   health, and certain credit insurance contracts are recognized on a pro rata basis over the applicable contract term. 
  Deposits related to universal life-type and investment-type products are credited to PABs. Revenues from such contracts consist of fees for mortality, policy administration and surrender charges and are recorded in universal life and investment-type product policy fees in the period in which services are provided. Amounts that are charged to earnings include interest credited and benefit claims incurred in excess of related PABs. 
  Premiums related to property and casualty contracts are recognized as revenue on a pro rata basis over the applicable contract term. Unearned premiums, representing the portion of premium written related to the unexpired coverage, are also included in future policy benefits. 
  Premiums, policy fees, policyholder benefits and expenses are presented net of reinsurance. 
  Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs, Value of Business Acquired and Other Intangibles 
  The Company incurs significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that are related directly to the successful acquisition or renewal of insurance contracts are capitalized as DAC. Such costs include: 
             
    incremental direct costs of contract acquisition, such as commissions; 
                
    the portion of an employee s total compensation and benefits related to time spent selling, underwriting or processing the issuance of new and renewal insurance business only with respect to actual policies acquired or renewed; 
                
    other essential direct costs that would not have been incurred had a policy not been acquired or renewed; and 
                
    the costs of direct-response advertising, the primary purpose of which is to elicit sales to customers who could be shown to have responded specifically to the advertising and that results in probable future benefits. 
     All other acquisition-related costs, including those related to general advertising and solicitation, market research, agent training, product development, unsuccessful sales and underwriting efforts, as well as all indirect costs, are expensed as incurred. 
  Value of business acquired ( VOBA ) is an intangible asset resulting from a business combination that represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the acquisition date. The estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased business may vary from these projections. 
    188 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

   DAC and VOBA are amortized as follows: 
                         Products: 
    In proportion to the following over estimated lives of the contracts: 
        
    Nonparticipating and non-dividend-paying traditional contracts: 
      
    Historic actual and expected future gross premiums. 

Term insurance 

Nonparticipating whole life insurance 

Traditional group life insurance 

Non-medical health insurance 

Accident   health insurance 

Participating, dividend-paying traditional contracts 
      
    Actual and expected future gross margins. 
        
    Fixed and variable universal life contracts 
      
    Actual and expected future gross profits. 
        
    Fixed and variable deferred annuity contracts 

Credit insurance contracts 
      
    Historic and future earned premiums. 
        
    Property and casualty insurance contracts 

Other short-duration contracts 

See Note   5   for additional information on DAC and VOBA amortization. 
  The recovery of DAC and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. DAC and VOBA are aggregated in the financial statements for reporting purposes. 
  The Company generally has two different types of sales inducements which are included in other assets: (i) the policyholder receives a bonus whereby the policyholder s initial account balance is increased by an amount equal to a specified percentage of the customer s deposit; and (ii) the policyholder receives a higher interest rate using a dollar cost averaging method than would have been received based on the normal general account interest rate credited. The Company defers sales inducements and amortizes them over the life of the policy using the same methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC. The amortization of sales inducements is included in policyholder benefits and claims. Each year, or more frequently if circumstances indicate a potential recoverability issue exists, the Company reviews deferred sales inducements ( DSI ) to determine the recoverability of the asset. 
  Value of distribution agreements acquired ( VODA ) is reported in other assets and represents the present value of expected future profits associated with the expected future business derived from the distribution agreements acquired as part of a business combination. Value of customer relationships acquired ( VOCRA ) is also reported in other assets and represents the present value of the expected future profits associated with the expected future business acquired through existing customers of the acquired company or business. The VODA and VOCRA associated with past business combinations are amortized over useful lives ranging from   10   to   40 years   and such amortization is included in other expenses. Each year, or more frequently if circumstances indicate a possible impairment exists, the Company reviews VODA and VOCRA to determine whether the asset is impaired. 
  For certain acquired blocks of business, the estimated fair value of the in-force contract obligations exceeded the book value of assumed in-force insurance policy liabilities, resulting in negative VOBA, which is presented separately from VOBA as an additional insurance liability. The fair value of the in-force contract obligations is based on projections by each block of business. Negative VOBA is amortized over the policy period in proportion to the approximate consumption of losses included in the liability usually expressed in terms of insurance in-force or account value. Such amortization is recorded as a contra-expense in other expenses. 
  Reinsurance 
  For each of its reinsurance agreements, the Company determines whether the agreement provides indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance risk in accordance with applicable accounting standards. Cessions under reinsurance agreements do not discharge the Company s obligations as the primary insurer. The Company reviews all contractual features, including those that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims. 
    189 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

   For reinsurance of existing in-force blocks of long-duration contracts that transfer significant insurance risk, the difference, if any, between the amounts paid (received), and the liabilities ceded (assumed) related to the underlying contracts is considered the net cost of reinsurance at the inception of the reinsurance agreement. The net cost of reinsurance is recorded as an adjustment to DAC and recognized as a component of other expenses on a basis consistent with the way the acquisition costs on the underlying reinsured contracts would be recognized. Subsequent amounts paid (received) on the reinsurance of in-force blocks, as well as amounts paid (received) related to new business, are recorded as ceded (assumed) premiums; and ceded (assumed) premiums, reinsurance and other receivables (future policy benefits) are established. 
  For prospective reinsurance of short-duration contracts that meet the criteria for reinsurance accounting, amounts paid (received) are recorded as ceded (assumed) premiums and ceded (assumed) unearned premiums. Unearned premiums are reflected as a component of premiums, reinsurance and other receivables (future policy benefits). Such amounts are amortized through earned premiums over the remaining contract period in proportion to the amount of insurance protection provided. For retroactive reinsurance of short-duration contracts that meet the criteria of reinsurance accounting, amounts paid (received) in excess of the related insurance liabilities ceded (assumed) are recognized immediately as a loss and are reported in the appropriate line item within the statement of operations. Any gain on such retroactive agreement is deferred and is amortized as part of DAC, primarily using the recovery method. 
  Amounts currently recoverable under reinsurance agreements are included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables and amounts currently payable are included in other liabilities. Assets and liabilities relating to reinsurance agreements with the same reinsurer may be recorded net on the balance sheet, if a right of offset exists within the reinsurance agreement. In the event that reinsurers do not meet their obligations to the Company under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, reinsurance recoverable balances could become uncollectible. In such instances, reinsurance recoverable balances are stated net of allowances for uncollectible reinsurance. 
  Premiums, fees and policyholder benefits and claims include amounts assumed under reinsurance agreements and are net of reinsurance ceded. Amounts received from reinsurers for policy administration are reported in other revenues. With respect to GMIBs, a portion of the directly written GMIBs are accounted for as insurance liabilities, but the associated reinsurance agreements contain embedded derivatives. These embedded derivatives are included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables with changes in estimated fair value reported in policyholder benefits and claims. 
  If the Company determines that a reinsurance agreement does not expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the agreement using the deposit method of accounting. Deposits received are included in other liabilities and deposits made are included within premiums, reinsurance and other receivables. As amounts are paid or received, consistent with the underlying contracts, the deposit assets or liabilities are adjusted. Interest on such deposits is recorded as other revenues or other expenses, as appropriate. Periodically, the Company evaluates the adequacy of the expected payments or recoveries and adjusts the deposit asset or liability through other revenues or other expenses, as appropriate. 
  Investments 
  Net Investment Income and Net Investment Gains (Losses) 
  Income from investments is reported within net investment income, unless otherwise stated herein. Gains and losses on sales of investments, impairment losses and changes in valuation allowances are reported within net investment gains (losses), unless otherwise stated herein. 
  Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities 
  The majority of the Company s fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale ( AFS ) and are reported at their estimated fair value. Unrealized investment gains and losses on these securities are recorded as a separate component of other comprehensive income (loss) ( OCI ), net of policy-related amounts and deferred income taxes. All security transactions are recorded on a trade date basis. Investment gains and losses on sales are determined on a specific identification basis. 
  Interest income and prepayment fees are recognized when earned. Interest income is recognized using an effective yield method giving effect to amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts. Dividends on equity securities are recognized when declared.  
    190 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

   The Company periodically evaluates fixed maturity and equity securities for impairment. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on management s case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in estimated fair value, as well as an analysis of the gross unrealized losses by severity and/or age as described in Note 8    Evaluation of AFS Securities for OTTI and Evaluating Temporarily Impaired AFS Securities.  
  For fixed maturity securities in an unrealized loss position, an other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ) is recognized in earnings when it is anticipated that the amortized cost will not be recovered. When either: (i) the Company has the intent to sell the security; or (ii) it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery, the OTTI recognized in earnings is the entire difference between the security s amortized cost and estimated fair value. If neither of these conditions exists, the difference between the amortized cost of the security and the present value of projected future cash flows expected to be collected is recognized as an OTTI in earnings ( credit loss ). If the estimated fair value is less than the present value of projected future cash flows expected to be collected, this portion of OTTI related to other-than-credit factors ( noncredit loss ) is recorded in OCI. 
  With respect to equity securities, the Company considers in its OTTI analysis its intent and ability to hold a particular equity security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its estimated fair value to an amount equal to or greater than cost. If a sale decision is made for an equity security and recovery to an amount at least equal to cost prior to the sale is not expected, the security will be deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired in the period that the sale decision was made and an OTTI loss will be recorded in earnings. The OTTI loss recognized is the entire difference between the security s cost and its estimated fair value. 
  FVO and Trading Securities 
  FVO and trading securities are stated at estimated fair value and include investments for which the FVO has been elected ( FVO Securities ) and investments that are actively purchased and sold ( Actively Traded Securities ). FVO Securities include: 
             
    fixed maturity and equity securities held-for-investment by the general account to support asset and liability management strategies for certain insurance products and investments in certain separate accounts ( FVO general account securities  and 
                
    contractholder-directed investments supporting unit-linked variable annuity type liabilities which do not qualify for presentation and reporting as separate account summary total assets and liabilities. These investments are primarily mutual funds and, to a lesser extent, fixed maturity and equity securities, short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents. The investment returns on these investments inure to contractholders and are offset by a corresponding change in PABs through interest credited to policyholder account balances ( FVO contractholder-directed unit-linked investments ). 
     Actively Traded Securities principally include fixed maturity securities and short sale agreement liabilities, which are included in other liabilities. 
  Changes in estimated fair value of these securities are included in net investment income, except for certain securities included in FVO Securities where changes are included in net investment gains (losses). 
  Mortgage Loans 
  The Company disaggregates its mortgage loan investments into three portfolio segments: commercial, agricultural, and residential. The accounting policies that are applicable to all portfolio segments are presented below and the accounting policies related to each of the portfolio segments are included in Note 8. 
  Mortgage Loans Held-For-Investment 
  Mortgage loans held-for-investment are stated at unpaid principal balance, adjusted for any unamortized premium or discount, deferred fees or expenses, and are net of valuation allowances. Interest income and prepayment fees are recognized when earned. Interest income is recognized using an effective yield method giving effect to amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts. 
  Also included in mortgage loans held-for-investment are commercial mortgage loans held by consolidated securitization entities ( CSEs ) and residential mortgage loans for which the FVO was elected, which are stated at estimated fair value. Changes in estimated fair value are recognized in net investment gains (losses) for commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs   FVO, and net investment income for residential mortgage loans   FVO. 
    191 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

   Mortgage Loans Held-For-Sale 
  Mortgage loans held-for-sale that were previously designated as held-for-investment and mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell for which FVO was not elected, are stated at the lower of amortized cost or estimated fair value. 
  Policy Loans 
  Policy loans are stated at unpaid principal balances. Interest income is recorded as earned using the contractual interest rate. Generally, accrued interest is capitalized on the policy s anniversary date. Valuation allowances are not established for policy loans, as they are fully collateralized by the cash surrender value of the underlying insurance policies. Any unpaid principal and accrued interest is deducted from the cash surrender value or the death benefit prior to settlement of the insurance policy. 
  Real Estate 
  Real estate held-for-investment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset (typically   20   to   55 years  ). Rental income is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the respective leases. The Company periodically reviews its real estate held-for-investment for impairment and tests for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable and exceeds its estimated fair value. Properties whose carrying values are greater than their undiscounted cash flows are written down to their estimated fair value, which is generally computed using the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the underlying risks. 
  Real estate for which the Company commits to a plan to sell within one year and actively markets in its current condition for a reasonable price in comparison to its estimated fair value is classified as held-for-sale. Real estate held-for-sale is stated at the lower of depreciated cost or estimated fair value less expected disposition costs and is not depreciated. 
  Real Estate Joint Ventures and Other Limited Partnership Interests 
  The Company uses the equity method of accounting for equity securities when it has significant influence or at least 20% interest and for real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests ( investees ) when it has more than a minor ownership interest or more than a minor influence over the investee s operations, but does not have a controlling financial interest. The Company generally recognizes its share of the investee s earnings on a three-month lag in instances where the investee s financial information is not sufficiently timely or when the investee s reporting period differs from the Company s reporting period.  
  The Company uses the cost method of accounting for investments in which it has virtually no influence over the investee s operations. The Company recognizes distributions on cost method investments as earned or received. Because of the nature and structure of these cost method investments, they do not meet the characteristics of an equity security in accordance with applicable accounting standards. 
  The Company routinely evaluates its equity method and cost method investments for impairment. For equity method investees, the Company considers financial and other information provided by the investee, other known information and inherent risks in the underlying investments, as well as future capital commitments, in determining whether an impairment has occurred. The Company considers its cost method investments for impairment when the carrying value of such investments exceeds the net asset value ( NAV ). The Company takes into consideration the severity and duration of this excess when determining whether the cost method investment is impaired. 
  Short-term Investments 
  Short-term investments include securities and other investments with remaining maturities of one year or less, but greater than three months, at the time of purchase and are stated at estimated fair value or amortized cost, which approximates estimated fair value. 
    192 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

   Other Invested Assets 
  Other invested assets consist principally of the following: 
             
    Freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair values which are described in    Derivatives  below. 
                
    Tax credit and renewable energy partnerships which derive a significant source of investment return in the form of income tax credits or other tax incentives. Where tax credits are guaranteed by a creditworthy third party, the investment is accounted for under the effective yield method. Otherwise, the investment is accounted for under the equity method. 
                
    Leveraged leases which are recorded net of non-recourse debt. Income is recognized by applying the leveraged lease s estimated rate of return to the net investment in the lease. The Company regularly reviews residual values for impairment.  
                
    Direct financing leases gross investment is equal to the minimum lease payments plus the unguaranteed residual value.  Income is recorded by applying the pre-tax internal rate of return to the investment balance. The Company regularly reviews lease receivables for impairment. Certain direct financing leases are linked to inflation. 
                
    Funds withheld represent a receivable for amounts contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. The Company recognizes interest on funds withheld at rates defined by the terms of the agreement which may be contractually specified or directly related to the underlying investments. 
                
    Investments in operating joint ventures that engage in insurance underwriting activities are accounted for under the equity method. 
     Securities Lending Program 
  Securities lending transactions, whereby blocks of securities are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks, are treated as financing arrangements and the associated liability is recorded at the amount of cash received. The Company obtains collateral at the inception of the loan, usually cash, in an amount generally equal to   102%   of the estimated fair value of the securities loaned, and maintains it at a level greater than or equal to   100%   for the duration of the loan. The Company is liable to return to the counterparties the cash collateral received. Security collateral on deposit from counterparties in connection with securities lending transactions may not be sold or re-pledged, unless the counterparty is in default, and is not reflected in the Company s financial statements. The Company monitors the estimated fair value of the securities loaned on a daily basis and additional collateral is obtained as necessary. Income and expenses associated with securities lending transactions are reported as investment income and investment expense, respectively, within net investment income. 
  Derivatives 
  Freestanding Derivatives 
  Freestanding derivatives are carried in the Company s balance sheets either as assets within other invested assets or as liabilities within other liabilities at estimated fair value. The Company does not offset the fair value amounts recognized for derivatives executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting agreement. 
  Accruals on derivatives are generally recorded in accrued investment income or within other liabilities. However, accruals that are not scheduled to settle within one year are included with the derivatives carrying value in other invested assets or other liabilities. 
  If a derivative is not designated as an accounting hedge or its use in managing risk does not qualify for hedge accounting, changes in the estimated fair value of the derivative are reported in net derivative gains (losses) except as follows: 
                   Statement of Operations Presentation: 
    Derivative: 
      Policyholder benefits and claims 
      
    Economic hedges of variable annuity guarantees included in future policy benefits 
      Net investment income 
      
    Economic hedges of equity method investments in joint ventures 

All derivatives held in relation to trading portfolios 

Derivatives held within contractholder-directed unit-linked investments 
      Other revenues 
      
    Derivatives held in connection with the Company s previous mortgage banking activities 

193 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

   Hedge Accounting 
  To qualify for hedge accounting, at the inception of the hedging relationship, the Company formally documents its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction, as well as its designation of the hedge. Hedge designation and financial statement presentation of changes in estimated fair value of the hedging derivatives are as follows: 
             
    Fair value hedge   (a hedge of the estimated fair value of a recognized asset or liability) - in net derivative gains (losses), consistent with the change in fair value of the hedged item attributable to the designated risk being hedged. 
                
    Cash flow hedge   (a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability) - effectiveness in OCI (deferred gains or losses on the derivative are reclassified into the statement of operations when the Company s earnings are affected by the variability in cash flows of the hedged item); ineffectiveness in net derivative gains (losses). 
                
    Net investment in a foreign operation hedge   - effectiveness in OCI, consistent with the translation adjustment for the hedged net investment in the foreign operation; ineffectiveness in net derivative gains (losses). 
     The changes in estimated fair values of the hedging derivatives are exclusive of any accruals that are separately reported in the statement of operations within interest income or interest expense to match the location of the hedged item. Accruals on derivatives in net investment hedges are recognized in OCI. 
  In its hedge documentation, the Company sets forth how the hedging instrument is expected to hedge the designated risks related to the hedged item and sets forth the method that will be used to retrospectively and prospectively assess the hedging instrument s effectiveness and the method that will be used to measure ineffectiveness. A derivative designated as a hedging instrument must be assessed as being highly effective in offsetting the designated risk of the hedged item. Hedge effectiveness is formally assessed at inception and at least quarterly throughout the life of the designated hedging relationship. Assessments of hedge effectiveness and measurements of ineffectiveness are also subject to interpretation and estimation and different interpretations or estimates may have a material effect on the amount reported in net income. 
  The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when: (i) it is determined that the derivative is no longer highly effective in offsetting changes in the estimated fair value or cash flows of a hedged item; (ii) the derivative expires, is sold, terminated, or exercised; (iii) it is no longer probable that the hedged forecasted transaction will occur; or (iv) the derivative is de-designated as a hedging instrument. 
  When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is determined that the derivative is not highly effective in offsetting changes in the estimated fair value or cash flows of a hedged item, the derivative continues to be carried in the balance sheets at its estimated fair value, with changes in estimated fair value recognized in net derivative gains (losses). The carrying value of the hedged recognized asset or liability under a fair value hedge is no longer adjusted for changes in its estimated fair value due to the hedged risk, and the cumulative adjustment to its carrying value is amortized into income over the remaining life of the hedged item. Provided the hedged forecasted transaction is still probable of occurrence, the changes in estimated fair value of derivatives recorded in OCI related to discontinued cash flow hedges are released into the statements of operations when the Company s earnings are affected by the variability in cash flows of the hedged item. 
  When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is no longer probable that the forecasted transactions will occur on the anticipated date or within two months of that date, the derivative continues to be carried in the balance sheets at its estimated fair value, with changes in estimated fair value recognized currently in net derivative gains (losses). Deferred gains and losses of a derivative recorded in OCI pursuant to the discontinued cash flow hedge of a forecasted transaction that is no longer probable are recognized immediately in net derivative gains (losses). 
  In all other situations in which hedge accounting is discontinued, the derivative is carried at its estimated fair value in the balance sheets, with changes in its estimated fair value recognized in the current period as net derivative gains (losses). 
    194 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

   Embedded Derivatives 
  The Company sells variable annuities and issues certain insurance products and investment contracts and is a party to certain reinsurance agreements that have embedded derivatives. The Company assesses each identified embedded derivative to determine whether it is required to be bifurcated. The embedded derivative is bifurcated from the host contract and accounted for as a freestanding derivative if: 
             
    the combined instrument is not accounted for in its entirety at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in earnings; 
                
    the terms of the embedded derivative are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract; and 
                
    a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would qualify as a derivative instrument. 
     Such embedded derivatives are carried in the balance sheets at estimated fair value with the host contract and changes in their estimated fair value are generally reported in net derivative gains (losses) except for those in policyholder benefits and claims related to ceded reinsurance of GMIB. If the Company is unable to properly identify and measure an embedded derivative for separation from its host contract, the entire contract is carried on the balance sheet at estimated fair value, with changes in estimated fair value recognized in the current period in net investment gains (losses) or net investment income. Additionally, the Company may elect to carry an entire contract on the balance sheet at estimated fair value, with changes in estimated fair value recognized in the current period in net investment gains (losses) or net investment income if that contract contains an embedded derivative that requires bifurcation. At inception, the Company attributes to the embedded derivative a portion of the projected future guarantee fees to be collected from the policyholder equal to the present value of projected future guaranteed benefits. Any additional fees represent  excess  fees and are reported in universal life and investment-type product policy fees. 
  Fair Value 
  Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. In most cases, the exit price and the transaction (or entry) price will be the same at initial recognition. 
  Subsequent to initial recognition, fair values are based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that are readily and regularly obtainable. When such quoted prices are not available, fair values are based on quoted prices in markets that are not active, quoted prices for similar but not identical assets or liabilities, or other observable inputs. If these inputs are not available, or observable inputs are not determinable, unobservable inputs and/or adjustments to observable inputs requiring management judgment are used to determine the estimated fair value of assets and liabilities. 
  Goodwill 
  Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising from net assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and recognized. Goodwill is calculated as the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of such net assets acquired, is not amortized, and is tested for impairment based on a fair value approach at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test. The Company performs its annual goodwill impairment testing during the third quarter of each year based upon data as of the close of the second quarter. Goodwill associated with a business acquisition is not tested for impairment during the year the business is acquired unless there is a significant identified impairment event. 
  The impairment test is performed at the reporting unit level, which is the operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, there may be an indication of impairment. In such instances, the implied fair value of the goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill that would be determined in a business combination. The excess of the carrying value of goodwill over the implied fair value of goodwill would be recognized as an impairment and recorded as a charge against net income. 
  On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates potential triggering events that may affect the estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units to assess whether any goodwill impairment exists. Deteriorating or adverse market conditions for certain reporting units may have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units and could result in future impairments of goodwill. 
    195 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

   Employee Benefit Plans 
  Certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. sponsor and/or administer various plans that provide defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits covering eligible employees and sales representatives. Measurement dates used for all of the subsidiaries  defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans correspond with the fiscal year ends of sponsoring subsidiaries, which are December 31 for U.S. and most non-U.S. subsidiaries and November 30 for certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. 
  The Company recognizes the funded status of the projected benefit obligation ( PBO ) for pension benefits and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation ( APBO ) for other postretirement benefits for each of its plans. The Company recognizes an expense for differences between actual experience and estimates over the average future service period of participants. The actuarial gains (losses), prior service costs (credit) and the remaining net transition asset or obligation not yet included in net periodic benefit costs are charged to accumulated OCI ( AOCI ), net of income tax. 
  The subsidiaries also sponsor defined contribution plans for substantially all U.S. employees under which a portion of employee contributions is matched. Applicable matching contributions are made each payroll period. Accordingly, the Company recognizes compensation cost for current matching contributions. As all contributions are transferred currently as earned to the defined contribution plans, no liability for matching contributions is recognized in the balance sheets. 
  Income Tax 
  MetLife, Inc. and its includable life insurance and non-life insurance subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return in accordance with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). Non-includable subsidiaries file either separate individual corporate tax returns or separate consolidated tax returns. 
  The Company s accounting for income taxes represents management s best estimate of various events and transactions. 
  Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities are measured at the balance sheet date using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years the temporary differences are expected to reverse. 
  The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction. Valuation allowances are established when management determines, based on available information, that it is more likely than not that deferred income tax assets will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in determining whether valuation allowances should be established, as well as the amount of such allowances. When making such determination the Company considers many factors, including: 
             
    the nature, frequency, and amount of cumulative financial reporting income and losses in recent years; 
                
    the jurisdiction in which the deferred tax asset was generated; 
                
    the length of time that carryforward can be utilized in the various taxing jurisdiction; 
                
    future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 
                
    future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences; 
                
    taxable income in prior carryback years; and 
                
    tax planning strategies. 
     The Company may be required to change its provision for income taxes in certain circumstances. Examples of such circumstances include when estimates used in determining valuation allowances on deferred tax assets significantly change or when receipt of new information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation allowances. Additionally, future events, such as changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations, could have an impact on the provision for income tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts reported in the financial statements in the year these changes occur. 
  The Company determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements. A tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than   50%   likely of being realized upon settlement. Unrecognized tax benefits due to tax uncertainties that do not meet the threshold are included within other liabilities and are charged to earnings in the period that such determination is made. 
  The Company classifies interest recognized as interest expense and penalties recognized as a component of income tax. 
    196 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

   Litigation Contingencies 
  The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to estimate the impact on the Company s financial position. Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Except as otherwise disclosed in Note   21  , legal costs are recognized as incurred. On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in the Company s financial statements. 
  Other Accounting Policies 
  Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests 
  Redeemable noncontrolling interests associated with certain joint ventures and partially-owned consolidated subsidiaries are reported in the temporary section of the balance sheet. 
  Stock-Based Compensation 
  The Company grants certain employees and directors stock-based compensation awards under various plans that are subject to specific vesting conditions. With the exception of performance shares granted in 2014 and 2013 which are re-measured quarterly, the cost of all stock-based transactions is measured at fair value at grant date and recognized over the period during which a grantee is required to provide services in exchange for the award. Although the terms of the Company s stock-based plans do not accelerate vesting upon retirement, or the attainment of retirement eligibility, the requisite service period subsequent to attaining such eligibility is considered nonsubstantive. Accordingly, the Company recognizes compensation expense related to stock-based awards over the shorter of the requisite service period or the period to attainment of retirement eligibility. An estimation of future forfeitures of stock-based awards is incorporated into the determination of compensation expense when recognizing expense over the requisite service period. 
  Cash and Cash Equivalents 
  The Company considers all highly liquid securities and other investments purchased with an original or remaining maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are stated at amortized cost, which approximates estimated fair value. 
  Property, Equipment, Leasehold Improvements and Computer Software 
  Property, equipment and leasehold improvements, which are included in other assets, are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is determined using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as appropriate. The estimated life is generally   40 years   for company occupied real estate property, from   one   to   25 years   for leasehold improvements, and from   three   to   seven years   for all other property and equipment. The cost basis of the property, equipment and leasehold improvements was   $2.0 billion   at both December 31,   2014   and   2013  . Accumulated depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and leasehold improvements was   $1.0 billion   at both December 31,   2014   and   2013  . Related depreciation and amortization expense was   $182 million  ,   $183 million   and   $208 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
  Computer software, which is included in other assets, is stated at cost, less accumulated amortization. Purchased software costs, as well as certain internal and external costs incurred to develop internal-use computer software during the application development stage, are capitalized. Such costs are amortized generally over a   four  -year period using the straight-line method. The cost basis of computer software was   $1.9 billion   and   $1.7 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Accumulated amortization of capitalized software was   $1.3 billion   and   $1.1 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Related amortization expense was   $212 million  ,   $216 million   and   $221 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
  Other Revenues 
  Other revenues include, in addition to items described elsewhere herein, advisory fees, broker-dealer commissions and fees, administrative service fees, and changes in account value relating to corporate-owned life insurance ( COLI ). Such fees and commissions are recognized in the period in which services are performed. Under certain COLI contracts, if the Company reports certain unlikely adverse results in its financial statements, withdrawals would not be immediately available and would be subject to market value adjustment, which could result in a reduction of the account value. 
    197 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

   Policyholder Dividends 
  Policyholder dividends are approved annually by the insurance subsidiaries  boards of directors. The aggregate amount of policyholder dividends is related to actual interest, mortality, morbidity and expense experience for the year, as well as management s judgment as to the appropriate level of statutory surplus to be retained by the insurance subsidiaries. 
  Foreign Currency 
  Assets, liabilities and operations of foreign affiliates and subsidiaries are recorded based on the functional currency of each entity. The determination of the functional currency is made based on the appropriate economic and management indicators. With the exception of certain foreign operations, primarily Japan, where multiple functional currencies exist, the local currencies of foreign operations are the functional currencies. Assets and liabilities of foreign affiliates and subsidiaries are translated from the functional currency to U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at each year-end and income and expense accounts are translated at the average exchange rates during the year. The resulting translation adjustments are charged or credited directly to OCI, net of applicable taxes. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions, including the effect of re-measurement of monetary assets and liabilities to the appropriate functional currency, are reported as part of net investment gains (losses) in the period in which they occur. 
  Earnings Per Common Share 
  Basic earnings per common share are computed based on the weighted average number of common shares, or their equivalent, outstanding during the period. The difference between the number of shares assumed issued and number of shares assumed purchased represents the dilutive shares. Diluted earnings per common share include the dilutive effect of the assumed: (i) exercise or issuance of stock-based awards using the treasury stock method; (ii) settlement of stock purchase contracts underlying common equity units using the treasury stock method; and (iii) settlement of accelerated common stock repurchase contracts. Under the treasury stock method, exercise or issuance of stock-based awards and settlement of the stock purchase contracts underlying common equity units is assumed to occur with the proceeds used to purchase common stock at the average market price for the period. 
  Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements 
  Effective November 18, 2014, the Company adopted new guidance on when, if ever, the cost of acquiring an entity should be used to establish a new accounting basis ( pushdown ) in the acquired entity s separate financial statements. The guidance provides an acquired entity and its subsidiaries with an irrevocable option to apply pushdown accounting in its separate financial statements upon occurrence of an event in which an acquirer obtains control of the acquired entity. If a reporting entity elects to apply pushdown accounting, its stand-alone financial statements would reflect the acquirer s new basis in the acquired entity s assets and liabilities. The election to apply pushdown accounting should be determined by an acquired entity for each individual change-in-control event in which an acquirer obtains control of the acquired entity; however, an entity that does not elect to apply pushdown accounting in the period of a change-in-control can later elect to retrospectively apply pushdown accounting to the most recent change-in-control transaction as a change in accounting principle. The new guidance did not have a material impact on the financial statements upon adoption. 
  Effective January 1, 2014, the Company early adopted new guidance regarding reporting of discontinued operations and disclosures of disposals of components of an entity. The guidance increases the threshold for a disposal to qualify as a discontinued operation, expands the disclosures for discontinued operations and requires new disclosures for certain disposals that do not meet the definition of a discontinued operation. Disposals must now represent a strategic shift that has or will have a major effect on the entity s operations and financial results to qualify as discontinued operations. 
  Effective January 1, 2014, the Company adopted new guidance regarding the presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit. The new guidance requires that an unrecognized tax benefit, or a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit, be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward. However, when the carryforwards are not available at the reporting date to settle any additional income taxes that would result from the disallowance of a tax position or the applicable tax law does not require, and the entity does not intend to use, the deferred tax asset for such purpose, the unrecognized tax benefit will be presented in the financial statements as a liability and will not be combined with the related deferred tax asset. The adoption was prospectively applied and resulted in a reduction to other liabilities and a corresponding increase to deferred income tax liability in the amount of   $277 million  . 
    198 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

   Effective January 1, 2014, the Company adopted new guidance on other expenses. The objective of this standard is to address how health insurers should recognize and classify in their income statements fees mandated by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. The amendments in this standard specify that the liability for the fee should be estimated and recorded in full once the entity provides qualifying health insurance in the applicable calendar year in which the fee is payable with a corresponding deferred cost that is amortized to expense using the straight-line method of allocation unless another method better allocates the fee over the calendar year that it is payable. In accordance with the adoption of the new accounting pronouncement on January 1, 2014, the Company recorded   $57 million   in other liabilities, and a corresponding deferred cost, in other assets. 
  Effective July 17, 2013, the Company adopted guidance regarding derivatives that permits the Fed Funds Effective Swap Rate (or Overnight Index Swap Rate) to be used as a U.S. benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes, in addition to the United States Treasury and London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ). Also, this new guidance removes the restriction on using different benchmark rates for similar hedges. The new guidance did not have a material impact on the financial statements upon adoption. 
  Effective January 1, 2013, the Company adopted guidance regarding comprehensive income that requires an entity to provide information about the amounts reclassified out of AOCI by component. In addition, an entity is required to present, either on the face of the statement where net income is presented or in the notes, significant amounts reclassified out of AOCI by the respective line items of net income but only if the amount reclassified is required under GAAP to be reclassified to net income in its entirety in the same reporting period. For other amounts that are not required under GAAP to be reclassified in their entirety to net income, an entity is required to cross-reference to other disclosures required under GAAP that provide additional detail about those amounts. The adoption was prospectively applied and resulted in additional disclosures in Note 16. 
  Effective January 1, 2013, the Company adopted guidance regarding balance sheet offsetting disclosures which requires an entity to disclose information about offsetting and related arrangements for derivatives, including bifurcated embedded derivatives, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and lending transactions, to enable users of its financial statements to understand the effects of those arrangements on its financial position. Entities are required to disclose both gross information and net information about both instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the statement of financial position and instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar to a master netting arrangement. The adoption was retrospectively applied and resulted in additional disclosures related to derivatives in Note 9. 
  On January 1, 2012, the Company adopted guidance regarding accounting for DAC, which was retrospectively applied. The guidance specifies that only costs related directly to successful acquisition of new or renewal contracts can be capitalized as DAC; all other acquisition-related costs must be expensed as incurred. Under the new guidance, advertising costs may only be included in DAC if the capitalization criteria in the direct-response advertising guidance in Subtopic 340-20,   Other Assets and Deferred Costs Capitalized Advertising Costs  , are met. As a result, certain direct marketing, sales manager compensation and administrative costs previously capitalized by the Company will no longer be deferred. 
  On January 1, 2012, the Company adopted guidance regarding comprehensive income, which was retrospectively applied, that provides companies with the option to present the total of comprehensive income, components of net income, and the components of OCI either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements in annual financial statements. The standard eliminates the option to present components of OCI as part of the statement of changes in stockholders  equity. The Company adopted the two-statement approach for annual financial statements. 
  Effective January 1, 2012, the Company adopted guidance on goodwill impairment testing that simplifies how an entity tests goodwill for impairment. This new guidance allows an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value as a basis for determining whether it needs to perform the quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test. Only if an entity determines, based on qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit s fair value is less than its carrying value will it be required to calculate the fair value of the reporting unit. The qualitative assessment is optional and the Company is permitted to bypass it for any reporting unit in any period and begin its impairment analysis with the quantitative calculation. The Company is permitted to perform the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. 
  Effective January 1, 2012, the Company adopted guidance regarding fair value measurements that establishes common requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements in accordance with GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. Some of the amendments clarify the Financial Accounting Standards Board s ( FASB ) intent on the application of existing fair value measurement requirements. Other amendments change a particular principle or requirement for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s financial statements other than the expanded disclosures in Note 10. 
    199 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  1.  Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued) 

   Future Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements 
  In February 2015, the FASB issued new guidance to improve consolidation guidance for legal entities (Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) 2015-02,   Consolidation (Topic 810): Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis  ),     effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015 and interim periods within those years and early adoption is permitted. The new standard is intended to improve targeted areas of the consolidation guidance for legal entities such as limited partnerships, limited liability corporations, and securitization structures. The amendments in the ASU affect the consolidation evaluation for reporting organizations. In addition, the amendments in this ASU simplify and improve current GAAP by reducing the number of consolidation models. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements. 
  In June 2014, the FASB issued new guidance on transfers and servicing ASU 2014 11,   Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860): Repurchase-to-Maturity Transactions, Repurchase Financings, and Disclosure)  , effective prospectively for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2014 and interim periods within those years. The new guidance requires that repurchase-to-maturity transactions and repurchase financing arrangements be accounted for as secured borrowings and provides for enhanced disclosures, including the nature of collateral pledged and the time to maturity. Certain interim period disclosures for repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions are not required until the second quarter of 2015. The Company does not expect the adoption of this new guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
  In May 2014, the FASB issued a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard (ASU 2014 09,   Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)  )  ,   effective retrospectively for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016 and interim periods within those years. Early adoption of this standard is not permitted. The new guidance will supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP; however, it will not impact the accounting for insurance contracts, leases, financial instruments and guarantees. For those contracts that are impacted by the new guidance, the guidance will require an entity to recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled, in exchange for those goods or services. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements. 
  In January 2014, the FASB issued new guidance regarding investments (ASU 2014 01,   Investments   Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Accounting for Investments in Qualified Affordable Housing Projects  ), effective retrospectively for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2014 and interim reporting periods within those years. The new guidance is applicable to investments in flow-through limited liability entities that manage or invest in affordable housing projects that qualify for the low-income housing tax credit. Under the guidance, an entity that meets certain conditions is permitted to make an accounting policy election to amortize the initial cost of its investment in proportion to the tax credits and other tax benefits received and recognize the net investment performance on the statement of operations as a component of income tax expense (benefit). The Company does not expect the adoption of this new guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
    2. Segment Information 
    MetLife is organized into   six   segments, reflecting three broad geographic regions: Retail; Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits; Corporate Benefit Funding; and Latin America (collectively, the  Americas  Asia; and EMEA. In addition, the Company reports certain of its results of operations in Corporate   Other. 
  Americas 
  The Americas consists of the following segments: 
  Retail 
  The Retail segment offers a broad range of protection products and services and a variety of annuities to individuals and employees of corporations and other institutions, and is organized into two businesses: Life   Other and Annuities. Life   Other insurance products and services include variable life, universal life, term life and whole life products. Additionally, through broker-dealer affiliates, the Company offers a full range of mutual funds and other securities products. Life   Other products and services also include individual disability income products and personal lines property   casualty insurance, including private passenger automobile, homeowners and personal excess liability insurance. Annuities includes a variety of variable and fixed annuities which provide for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. 
  Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits 
  The Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segment offers a broad range of protection products and services to individuals and corporations, as well as other institutions and their respective employees. Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits insurance products and services include life, dental, group short- and long-term disability and accidental death and dismemberment ( AD D ) coverages. In addition, the Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segment offers property   casualty insurance,  
    200 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  2.  Segment Information (continued) 

   including private passenger automobile, homeowners and personal excess liability, which is offered to employees on a voluntary basis, LTC, critical illness and accident   health coverages, as well as prepaid legal plans. 
  Corporate Benefit Funding 
  The Corporate Benefit Funding segment offers a broad range of annuity and investment products, including guaranteed interest products and other stable value products, income annuities, and separate account contracts for the investment management of defined benefit and defined contribution plan assets. This segment also includes structured settlements and certain products to fund postretirement benefits and company-, bank- or trust-owned life insurance used to finance non-qualified benefit programs for executives. 
  Latin America 
  The Latin America segment offers a broad range of products to both individuals and corporations, as well as other institutions and their respective employees, which include life insurance, accident   health insurance, group medical, dental, credit insurance, endowment and retirement   savings products written in Latin America. The Latin America segment also includes U.S. sponsored direct business, comprised of group and individual products sold through sponsoring organizations and affinity groups. Products included are life, dental, group short- and long-term disability, AD D coverages, property   casualty and other accident   health coverages, as well as non-insurance products such as identity protection. 
  Asia 
  The Asia segment offers a broad range of products to both individuals and corporations, as well as other institutions and their respective employees, which include whole life, term life, variable life, universal life, accident   health insurance, fixed and variable annuities, credit insurance and endowment products. 
  EMEA 
  The EMEA segment offers a broad range of products to both individuals and corporations, as well as other institutions and their respective employees, which include life insurance, accident   health insurance, credit insurance, annuities, endowment and retirement   savings products. 
  Corporate   Other 
  Corporate   Other contains the excess capital, as well as certain charges and activities, not allocated to the segments, including external integration costs, internal resource costs for associates committed to acquisitions, enterprise-wide strategic initiative restructuring charges, various start-up businesses (including expatriate benefits insurance, the investment management business through which we offer fee-based investment management services to institutional clients, as well as direct and digital marketing products) and certain run-off businesses. Corporate   Other also includes assumed reinsurance of certain variable annuity products from the Company s former operating joint venture in Japan. Under this in-force reinsurance agreement, the Company reinsures living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with variable annuity products. Additionally, Corporate   Other includes interest expense related to the majority of the Company s outstanding debt and expenses associated with certain legal proceedings and income tax audit issues. Corporate   Other also includes the elimination of intersegment amounts, which generally relate to intersegment loans, which bear interest rates commensurate with related borrowings. 
  Financial Measures and Segment Accounting Policies 
  Operating earnings is the measure of segment profit or loss the Company uses to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Consistent with GAAP guidance for segment reporting, operating earnings is the Company s measure of segment performance and is reported below. Operating earnings should not be viewed as a substitute for income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax. The Company believes the presentation of operating earnings as the Company measures it for management purposes enhances the understanding of its performance by highlighting the results of operations and the underlying profitability drivers of the business. 
  Operating earnings is defined as operating revenues less operating expenses, both net of income tax. 
  Operating revenues and operating expenses exclude results of discontinued operations and other businesses that have been or will be sold or exited by MetLife and are referred to as divested businesses. Operating revenues also excludes net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses). Operating expenses also excludes goodwill impairments. 
    201 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  2.  Segment Information (continued) 

   The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP revenues, in the line items indicated, in calculating operating revenues: 
             
    Universal life and investment-type product policy fees excludes the amortization of unearned revenue related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses) and certain variable annuity GMIB fees ( GMIB Fees  
                
    Net investment income: (i) includes amounts for scheduled periodic settlement payments and amortization of premium on derivatives that are hedges of investments or that are used to replicate certain investments, but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, (ii) includes income from discontinued real estate operations, (iii) excludes post-tax operating earnings adjustments relating to insurance joint ventures accounted for under the equity method, (iv) excludes certain amounts related to contractholder-directed unit-linked investments, and (v) excludes certain amounts related to securitization entities that are VIEs consolidated under GAAP; and 
                
    Other revenues are adjusted for settlements of foreign currency earnings hedges. 
     The following additional adjustments are made to GAAP expenses, in the line items indicated, in calculating operating expenses: 
             
    Policyholder benefits and claims and policyholder dividends excludes: (i) changes in the policyholder dividend obligation related to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) inflation-indexed benefit adjustments associated with contracts backed by inflation-indexed investments and amounts associated with periodic crediting rate adjustments based on the total return of a contractually referenced pool of assets and other pass through adjustments, (iii) benefits and hedging costs related to GMIBs ( GMIB Costs ), and (iv) market value adjustments associated with surrenders or terminations of contracts ( Market Value Adjustments  
                
    Interest credited to policyholder account balances includes adjustments for scheduled periodic settlement payments and amortization of premium on derivatives that are hedges of PABs but do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and excludes amounts related to net investment income earned on contractholder-directed unit-linked investments; 
                
    Amortization of DAC and VOBA excludes amounts related to: (i) net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), (ii) GMIB Fees and GMIB Costs, and (iii) Market Value Adjustments; 
                
    Amortization of negative VOBA excludes amounts related to Market Value Adjustments; 
                
    Interest expense on debt excludes certain amounts related to securitization entities that are VIEs consolidated under GAAP; and 
                
    Other expenses excludes costs related to: (i) noncontrolling interests, (ii) implementation of new insurance regulatory requirements, and (iii) acquisition and integration costs. 
     Operating earnings also excludes the recognition of certain contingent assets and liabilities that could not be recognized at acquisition or adjusted for during the measurement period under GAAP business combination accounting guidance. In addition to the tax impact of the adjustments mentioned above, provision for income tax expense (benefit) also includes the impact related to the timing of certain tax credits, as well as certain tax reforms.  
  The sale of MetLife Assurance Limited ( MAL ) was completed in May 2014. As a result, the operations of MAL have been classified as divested business for all periods presented. See Note 3. Consequently, the results for Corporate Benefit Funding decreased by   $12 million  , net of   $8 million   of income tax, and   $21 million  , net of   $13 million   of income tax, for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Also, the results for Corporate   Other decreased by   $14 million  , net of   $7 million   of income tax, and   $16 million  , net of   $8 million   of income tax, for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
  Set forth in the tables below is certain financial information with respect to the Company s segments, as well as Corporate   Other, for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012   and at December 31,   2014   and   2013  . The segment accounting policies are the same as those used to prepare the Company s consolidated financial statements, except for operating earnings adjustments as defined above. In addition, segment accounting policies include the method of capital allocation described below. 
  Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in the Company s business. 
  The Company s economic capital model aligns segment allocated equity with emerging standards and consistent risk principles. The model applies statistics-based risk evaluation principles to the material risks to which the Company is exposed. These consistent risk principles include calibrating required economic capital shock factors to a specific confidence level and time horizon and applying an industry standard method for the inclusion of diversification benefits among risk types. The Company s management is responsible for the ongoing production and enhancement of the economic capital model and reviews its approach periodically to ensure that it remains consistent with emerging industry practice standards. 
    202 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  2.  Segment Information (continued) 

   For the Company s domestic segments, net investment income is credited or charged based on the level of allocated equity; however, changes in allocated equity do not impact the Company s consolidated net investment income, operating earnings or income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax. 
  Net investment income is based upon the actual results of each segment s specifically identifiable investment portfolios adjusted for allocated equity. Other costs are allocated to each of the segments based upon: (i) a review of the nature of such costs; (ii) time studies analyzing the amount of employee compensation costs incurred by each segment; and (iii) cost estimates included in the Company s product pricing. 
  Effective January 1, 2015, the Company implemented certain segment reporting changes related to the measurement of segment operating earnings, as well as the realignment of consumer direct business from Corporate   Other to Latin America. The changes will be applied retrospectively beginning with the first quarter of 2015. The changes will not impact total consolidated operating earnings or net income. 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Total assets includes   $93.8 billion   of assets from the Japan operations which represents   10%   of total consolidated assets.  See Note 11 for information regarding goodwill. 
       203 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  2.  Segment Information (continued) 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Total assets includes   $98.4 billion   of assets from the Japan operations which represents   11%   of total consolidated assets.  See Note 11 for information regarding goodwill. 
       204 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  2.  Segment Information (continued) 

The following table presents total premiums, universal life and investment-type product policy fees and other revenues by major product groups of the Company s segments, as well as Corporate   Other: 

205 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  2.  Segment Information (continued) 

   The following table presents total premiums, universal life and investment-type product policy fees and other revenues associated with the Company s U.S. and foreign operations: 

Revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10% of consolidated premiums, universal life and investment-type product policy fees and other revenues for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  . 
    3. Acquisitions and Dispositions 
    2014 Disposition 
  I  n May 2014, the Company completed the sale of its wholly-owned subsidiary, MAL, for   $702 million   (   418 million  ) in net cash consideration. As a result of the sale, a loss of   $633 million   (  $442 million  , net of income tax), was recorded for the year ended   December 31, 2014  , which includes a reduction to goodwill of   $60 million   (  $51 million  , net of income tax), as well as   $77 million   (  $50 million  , net of income tax) related to net investments in foreign operation hedges. The loss is reflected within net investment gains (losses) on the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Compared to the expected loss at the time of the sales agreement, the actual loss on the sale was increased by net income from MAL of   $77 million   for the year ended   December 31, 2014  . MAL s results of operations are included in continuing operations. They were historically included in the Corporate Benefit Funding segment. See   Note 2  . 
  2013 Acquisition 
  ProVida 
  Description of Transaction 
  On October 1, 2013, MetLife completed its previously announced acquisition of   Administradora de Fondos de Pensiones Provida S.A. ( ProVida )  , the largest private pension fund administrator in Chile based on assets under management and number of pension fund contributors. The acquisition of ProVida supports the Company's growth strategy in emerging markets and further strengthens the Company's overall position in Chile. Pursuant to an agreement with Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A. and BBVA Inversiones Chile S.A. (together, "BBVA"), a subsidiary of MetLife, Inc. acquired   64.32%   of the outstanding shares of ProVida from BBVA and conducted a public cash tender offer, through which MetLife acquired an additional   27.06%   of the outstanding shares of ProVida. As a result, as of October 1, 2013, MetLife owned   91.38%   of the total outstanding shares of ProVida, for a total acquisition price of   $1.9 billion  . 
  MetLife s accounting for pension products sold in foreign jurisdictions, where the sale and administration of those products are restricted by government regulations to pension companies, is under an insurance company accounting model. ProVida s assets under management meet the qualifications for separate account presentation. As such, the portion of the assets representing pension participants  funds are reported at estimated fair value as separate account assets, with an equivalent amount reported as separate account liabilities. The fair value of separate account assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date was   $45.2 billion  . ProVida s mandatory ownership interest in the funds (the  Encaje investment ), representing a   1%   interest in each of the funds offered, is accounted for as FVO Securities and reported in fair value option and trading securities on the balance sheet. Direct and incremental costs resulting in successful sales are capitalized and amortized over the estimated gross profits of the new business sold. Additionally, a portion of the revenue collected through fees on ProVida s mandatory savings product are deferred and recognized when future services are provided to participants who have stopped contributing to the savings product due to retirement, disability or unemployment ( non-contributors ). 
    206 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  3.  Acquisitions and Dispositions (continued) 

   Allocation of Purchase Price 
  Of the   $1.9 billion   purchase price,   $631 million   and   $159 million   was allocated to the fair value of tangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, respectively, of which   $451 million   in assets represented the Encaje investment. Additionally,   $941 million   was allocated to VOBA, which represented the value of the future profit margin from existing in-force pension participants ( acquired affiliates ) who were contributors as of the acquisition date and is subject to amortization as a percentage of estimated gross profits from the acquired contributing affiliates over an estimated weighted average period of   15 years  . The amounts allocated to the ProVida trade name and goodwill were   $179 million   and   $1.1 billion  , respectively, both of which were not subject to amortization. The value of the trade name represented the savings or relief from royalty costs due to ownership of the ProVida name. Goodwill represented the expected future profits resulting from new sales after the acquisition date. The purchase price was also allocated to a future service liability ( FSL ) of   $589 million   attributable to acquired affiliates who, at the purchase date, were not contributing or would become non-contributors at some point in the future. This liability represents the discounted future cost of servicing these affiliate accounts. The FSL is being released to earnings over the non-contributor phase period based on the actual expenses incurred during the respective period for servicing non-contributors from the acquired business. The allocated purchase price also included deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities of   $118 million   and   $224 million  , respectively, which were attributable to the intangible assets and liabilities, excluding goodwill, established at the purchase date.   No   portion of goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. The fair value of noncontrolling interests was   $176 million  , and was valued based upon the offered public cash tender price for each outstanding share of ProVida not acquired by MetLife. 
  Revenues and Earnings of ProVida 
  Revenues and net income of   $100 million   and   $42 million  , respectively, resulting from the acquisition of ProVida since the acquisition date, were included in the consolidated statement of operations within the Latin America segment for the year ended December 31, 2013. 
  2013 Disposition 
  MetLife Bank 
  In 2013, MetLife Bank, National Association ( MetLife Bank ) and MetLife, Inc. completed the sale of MetLife Bank s   $6.4 billion   of deposits. In August 2013, MetLife Bank merged with and into MetLife Home Loans LLC ( MLHL ), its former subsidiary, with MLHL as the surviving, non-bank entity. MetLife Bank has sold or otherwise exited substantially all of its operations. In conjunction with exiting MetLife Bank s businesses (the  MetLife Bank Divestiture ), for the years ended   December 31,     2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , the Company recorded net losses of   $21 million  ,   $115 million   and   $163 million  , respectively, net of income tax. The net losses included the gain on disposal of the depository business, the loss on disposal of mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ), gains (losses) on securities and mortgage loans sold or other costs related to MetLife Bank s businesses. 
  Each of the businesses that were exited as part of the MetLife Bank Divestiture could not be separated from the rest of the operations since the Company did not separately manage the businesses as a reportable segment, operating segment, or reporting unit. As a result, the businesses have not been reported as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements. 
  MetLife Bank had historically taken advantage of collateralized borrowing opportunities with the Federal Home Loan Bank ( FHLB ) of New York ( FHLB of NY ). In January 2012, MetLife Bank discontinued taking advances from the FHLB of NY. In April 2012, MetLife Bank transferred cash to Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ) related to   $3.8 billion   of outstanding advances which had been included in long-term debt, and MLIC assumed the associated obligations under terms similar to those of the transferred advances by issuing funding agreements which are included in PABs. See Note   12  . 
    207 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 

   4. Insurance 
    Insurance Liabilities 
  Insurance liabilities are comprised of future policy benefits, PABs and other policy-related balances. Information regarding insurance liabilities by segment, as well as Corporate   Other, was as follows at: 

Future policy benefits are measured as follows: 
                 Product Type: 
    Measurement Assumptions: 
      Participating life 
    Aggregate of (i) net level premium reserves for death and endowment policy benefits (calculated based upon the non-forfeiture interest rate, ranging from 3% to 7% for domestic business and 1% to 11% for international business, and mortality rates guaranteed in calculating the cash surrender values described in such contracts); and (ii) the liability for terminal dividends for domestic business. 
      Nonparticipating life 
    Aggregate of the present value of expected future benefit payments and related expenses less the present value of expected future net premiums. Assumptions as to mortality and persistency are based upon the Company s experience when the basis of the liability is established. Interest rate assumptions for the aggregate future policy benefit liabilities range from 2% to 11% for domestic business and 1% to 13% for international business. 
      I  ndividual and group 
  traditional fixed annuities 
  after annuitization 
    Present value of expected future payments. Interest rate assumptions used in establishing such liabilities range from 1% to 11% for domestic business and 1% to 12% for international business. 
      Non-medical health 
  insurance 
    The net level premium method and assumptions as to future morbidity, withdrawals and interest, which provide a margin for adverse deviation. Interest rate assumptions used in establishing such liabilities range from 4% to 7% (primarily related to domestic business). 
      Disabled lives 
    Present value of benefits method and experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and interest. Interest rate assumptions used in establishing such liabilities range from 3% to 8% for domestic business and 1% to 9% for international business. 
      Property and casualty 
  insurance 
    The amount estimated for claims that have been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported are based upon the Company s historical experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and subrogation. 

Participating business represented   5%   of the Company s life insurance in-force at both December 31,   2014   and   2013  . Participating policies represented   18%  ,   19%   and   20%   of gross life insurance premiums for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
  PABs are equal to: (i) policy account values, which consist of an accumulation of gross premium payments and investment performance; (ii) credited interest, ranging from   1%   to   13%   for domestic business and   1%   to   12%   for international business, less expenses, mortality charges and withdrawals; and (iii) fair value adjustments relating to business combinations. 
    208 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  4. Insurance (continued) 

   Guarantees 
  The Company issues variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits. The non-life contingent portion of GMWBs and the portion of certain GMIBs that does not require annuitization are accounted for as embedded derivatives in PABs and are further discussed in   Note 9  . Guarantees accounted for as insurance liabilities include: 
                         Guarantee: 
      
    Measurement Assumptions: 
      GMDBs 
      
    A return of purchase payment upon death even if the account value is reduced to zero. 

Present value of expected death benefits in excess of the projected account balance recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on the present value of total expected assessments. 

An enhanced death benefit may be available for an additional fee. 

Assumptions are consistent with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability and risk. 

Investment performance and volatility assumptions are consistent with the historical experience of the appropriate underlying equity index, such as the S P 500 Index. 

Benefit assumptions are based on the average benefits payable over a range of scenarios. 
      GMIBs 
      
    After a specified period of time determined at the time of issuance of the variable annuity contract, a minimum accumulation of purchase payments, even if the account value is reduced to zero, that can be annuitized to receive a monthly income stream that is not less than a specified amount. 

Present value of expected income benefits in excess of the projected account balance at any future date of annuitization and recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period based on present value of total expected assessments. 

Certain contracts also provide for a guaranteed lump sum return of purchase premium in lieu of the annuitization benefit. 

Assumptions are consistent with those used for estimating GMDB liabilities. 

Calculation incorporates an assumption for the percentage of the potential annuitizations that may be elected by the contractholder. 
      GMWBs 
      
    A return of purchase payment via partial withdrawals, even if the account value is reduced to zero, provided that cumulative withdrawals in a contract year do not exceed a certain limit. 

Expected value of the life contingent payments and expected assessments using assumptions consistent with those used for estimating the GMDB liabilities. 

Certain contracts include guaranteed withdrawals that are life contingent. 

The Company also issues annuity contracts that apply a lower rate on funds deposited if the contractholder elects to surrender the contract for cash and a higher rate if the contractholder elects to annuitize ( two tier annuities ). These guarantees include benefits that are payable in the event of death, maturity or at annuitization. Certain other annuity contracts contain guaranteed annuitization benefits that may be above what would be provided by the current account value of the contract. Additionally, the Company issues universal and variable life contracts where the Company contractually guarantees to the contractholder a secondary guarantee or a guaranteed paid-up benefit.  
    209 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  4. Insurance (continued) 

   Information regarding the liabilities for guarantees (excluding base policy liabilities and embedded derivatives) relating to annuity and universal and variable life contracts was as follows: 

______________ 
     
    210 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  4. Insurance (continued) 

   Account balances of contracts with insurance guarantees were invested in separate account asset classes as follows at: 

Based on the type of guarantee, the Company defines net amount at risk as listed below. These amounts include direct and assumed business, but exclude offsets from hedging or reinsurance, if any. 
  Variable Annuity Guarantees 
  In the Event of Death 
  Defined as the death benefit less the total contract account value, as of the balance sheet date. It represents the amount of the claim that the Company would incur if death claims were filed on all contracts on the balance sheet date and includes any additional contractual claims associated with riders purchased to assist with covering income taxes payable upon death. 
  At Annuitization 
  Defined as the amount (if any) that would be required to be added to the total contract account value to purchase a lifetime income stream, based on current annuity rates, equal to the minimum amount provided under the guaranteed benefit. This amount represents the Company s potential economic exposure to such guarantees in the event all contractholders were to annuitize on the balance sheet date, even though the contracts contain terms that allow annuitization of the guaranteed amount only after the 10th anniversary of the contract, which not all contractholders have achieved. 
  Two Tier and Other Annuities 
  Two tier annuities are defined as the excess of the upper tier, adjusted for a profit margin, less the lower tier, as of the balance sheet date. These contracts apply a lower rate on funds if the contractholder elects to surrender the contract for cash and a higher rate if the contractholder elects to annuitize. Other annuities are defined as the amount (if any) that would be required to be added to the total contract account value to purchase a lifetime income stream, based on current annuity rates, equal to the minimum amount provided under the guaranteed benefit. This amount represents the Company s potential economic exposure to such guarantees in the event all contractholders were to annuitize on the balance sheet date.  
  Universal and Variable Life Contracts 
  Defined as the guarantee amount less the account value, as of the balance sheet date. It represents the amount of the claim that the Company would incur if death claims were filed on all contracts on the balance sheet date. 
    211 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  4. Insurance (continued) 

   Information regarding the types of guarantees relating to annuity contracts and universal and variable life contracts was as follows at: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    The Company s annuity and life contracts with guarantees may offer more than one type of guarantee in each contract. Therefore, the amounts listed above may not be mutually exclusive. 
              (2) 
    Includes amounts, which are not reported on the consolidated balance sheets, from assumed reinsurance of certain variable annuity products from the Company s former operating joint venture in Japan. 
       212 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  4. Insurance (continued) 

   Obligations Under Funding Agreements 
  The Company issues fixed and floating rate funding agreements, which are denominated in either U.S. dollars or foreign currencies, to certain special purpose entities ( SPEs ) that have issued either debt securities or commercial paper for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements. During the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , the Company issued   $48.9 billion  ,   $37.7 billion   and   $35.1 billion  , respectively, and repaid   $45.6 billion  ,   $36.8 billion   and   $31.1 billion  , respectively, of such funding agreements. At December 31,   2014   and   2013  , liabilities for funding agreements outstanding, which are included in PABs, were   $33.9 billion   and   $31.2 billion  , respectively. 
  Certain of the Company s subsidiaries are members of regional banks in the FHLB system ( FHLBanks ). Holdings of common stock of FHLBanks, included in equity securities, were as follows at: 

Such subsidiaries have also entered into funding agreements with FHLBanks and the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, a federally chartered instrumentality of the U.S. ( Farmer Mac ). The liability for such funding agreements is included in PABs. Information related to such funding agreements was as follows at: 
   
 ______________ 
           (1) 
    Represents funding agreements issued to the applicable FHLBank in exchange for cash and for which such FHLBank has been granted a lien on certain assets, some of which are in the custody of such FHLBank, including residential mortgage-backed securities ( RMBS ), to collateralize obligations under advances evidenced by funding agreements. The Company is permitted to withdraw any portion of the collateral in the custody of such FHLBank as long as there is no event of default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of default by the Company, such FHLBank s recovery on the collateral is limited to the amount of the Company s liability to such FHLBank. 
              (2) 
    Advances are collateralized by mortgage-backed securities. The amount of collateral presented is at estimated fair value. 
              (3) 
    Represents funding agreements issued to certain SPEs that have issued debt securities for which payment of interest and principal is secured by such funding agreements, and such debt securities are also guaranteed as to payment of interest and principal by Farmer Mac. The obligations under these funding agreements are secured by a pledge of certain eligible agricultural real estate mortgage loans and may, under certain circumstances, be secured by other qualified collateral. The amount of collateral presented is at carrying value. 
       213 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  4. Insurance (continued) 

   Liabilities for Unpaid Claims and Claim Expenses 
  Information regarding the liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses relating to property and casualty, group accident and non-medical health policies and contracts, which are reported in future policy benefits and other policy-related balances, was as follows: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    During   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , as a result of changes in estimates of insured events in the respective prior year, claims and claim adjustment expenses associated with prior years decreased due to a reduction in prior year automobile bodily injury and homeowners  severity. In addition, 2013 and 2012 included improved loss ratios for non-medical health claim liabilities. 
       Separate Accounts 
  Separate account assets and liabilities include two categories of account types: pass-through separate accounts totaling   $261.3 billion   and   $265.4 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively, for which the policyholder assumes all investment risk, and separate accounts for which the Company contractually guarantees either a minimum return or account value to the policyholder which totaled   $55.7 billion   and   $51.8 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. The latter category consisted primarily of funding agreements and participating close-out contracts. The average interest rate credited on these contracts was   2.25%   and   2.23%   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively.  
  For the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , there were   no   investment gains (losses) on transfers of assets from the general account to the separate accounts. 
    5. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs, Value of Business Acquired and Other Intangibles 
    See   Note 1   for a description of capitalized acquisition costs. 
  Nonparticipating and Non-Dividend-Paying Traditional Contracts 
  The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to these contracts (term insurance, nonparticipating whole life insurance, traditional group life insurance, non-medical health insurance, and accident   health insurance) over the appropriate premium paying period in proportion to the historic actual and expected future gross premiums that were set at contract issue. The expected premiums are based upon the premium requirement of each policy and assumptions for mortality, morbidity, persistency and investment returns at policy issuance, or policy acquisition (as it relates to VOBA), include provisions for adverse deviation, and are consistent with the assumptions used to calculate future policyholder benefit liabilities. These assumptions are not revised after policy issuance or acquisition unless the DAC or VOBA balance is deemed to be unrecoverable from future expected profits. Absent a premium deficiency, variability in amortization after policy issuance or acquisition is caused only by variability in premium volumes. 
    214 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  5.  Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs, Value of Business Acquired and Other Intangibles (continued) 

   Participating, Dividend-Paying Traditional Contracts 
  The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to these contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future gross margins. The amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The future gross margins are dependent principally on investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, mortality, persistency, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. For participating contracts within the closed block (dividend-paying traditional contracts) future gross margins are also dependent upon changes in the policyholder dividend obligation. See   Note 7  . Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns, expenses, persistency and other factor changes, as well as policyholder dividend scales, are reasonably likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the estimated gross margins with the actual gross margins for that period. When the actual gross margins change from previously estimated gross margins, the cumulative DAC and VOBA amortization is re-estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to current operations. When actual gross margins exceed those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the actual gross margins are below the previously estimated gross margins. Each reporting period, the Company also updates the actual amount of business in-force, which impacts expected future gross margins. When expected future gross margins are below those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the expected future gross margins are above the previously estimated expected future gross margins. Each period, the Company also reviews the estimated gross margins for each block of business to determine the recoverability of DAC and VOBA balances. 
  Fixed and Variable Universal Life Contracts and Fixed and Variable Deferred Annuity Contracts 
  The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to these contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future gross profits. The amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The amount of future gross profits is dependent principally upon returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, persistency, interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties, the effect of any hedges used and certain economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that investment returns, expenses and persistency are reasonably likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the estimated gross profits with the actual gross profits for that period. When the actual gross profits change from previously estimated gross profits, the cumulative DAC and VOBA amortization is re-estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to current operations. When actual gross profits exceed those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the actual gross profits are below the previously estimated gross profits. Each reporting period, the Company also updates the actual amount of business remaining in-force, which impacts expected future gross profits. When expected future gross profits are below those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the expected future gross profits are above the previously estimated expected future gross profits. Each period, the Company also reviews the estimated gross profits for each block of business to determine the recoverability of DAC and VOBA balances. 
  Credit Insurance, Property and Casualty Insurance and Other Short-Duration Contracts 
  The Company amortizes DAC for these contracts, which is primarily composed of commissions and certain underwriting expenses, in proportion to historic and future earned premium over the applicable contract term. 
  Factors Impacting Amortization 
  Separate account rates of return on variable universal life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect in-force account balances on such contracts each reporting period, which can result in significant fluctuations in amortization of DAC and VOBA. Returns that are higher than the Company s long-term expectation produce higher account balances, which increases the Company s future fee expectations and decreases future benefit payment expectations on minimum death and living benefit guarantees, resulting in higher expected future gross profits. The opposite result occurs when returns are lower than the Company s long-term expectation. The Company s practice to determine the impact of gross profits resulting from returns on separate accounts assumes that long-term appreciation in equity markets is not changed by short-term market fluctuations, but is only changed when sustained interim deviations are expected. The Company monitors these events and only changes the assumption when its long-term expectation changes. 
    215 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  5.  Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs, Value of Business Acquired and Other Intangibles (continued) 

   The Company also periodically reviews other long-term assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross margins and profits. These assumptions primarily relate to investment returns, policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates, mortality, persistency and expenses to administer business. Management annually updates assumptions used in the calculation of estimated gross margins and profits which may have significantly changed. If the update of assumptions causes expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the assumption update causes expected future gross margins and profits to decrease. 
  Periodically, the Company modifies product benefits, features, rights or coverages that occur by the exchange of a contract for a new contract, or by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a contract, or by election or coverage within a contract. If such modification, referred to as an internal replacement, substantially changes the contract, the associated DAC or VOBA is written off immediately through income and any new deferrable costs associated with the replacement contract are deferred. If the modification does not substantially change the contract, the DAC or VOBA amortization on the original contract will continue and any acquisition costs associated with the related modification are expensed. 
  Amortization of DAC and VOBA is attributed to net investment gains (losses) and net derivative gains (losses), and to other expenses for the amount of gross margins or profits originating from transactions other than investment gains and losses. Unrealized investment gains and losses represent the amount of DAC and VOBA that would have been amortized if such gains and losses had been recognized. 
  Information regarding DAC and VOBA was as follows: 

______________ 
  (1)     See   Note 3   for a description of acquisitions. 
    216 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  5.  Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs, Value of Business Acquired and Other Intangibles (continued) 

   Information regarding total DAC and VOBA by segment, as well as Corporate   Other, was as follows at: 

Information regarding other intangibles was as follows: 

____________ 
           (1) 
    In connection with the Company s annual impairment testing of VOCRA, it was determined that the VOCRA included in the Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segment, associated with a previously acquired dental business, was impaired as the undiscounted future cash flows associated with the asset were lower than its current carrying value. This shortfall in undiscounted future cash flows is primarily the result of actual persistency experience being less favorable than what was assumed when the asset was acquired. As a result of this impairment, the Company wrote the asset down to its estimated fair value, which was determined using the discounted cash flow valuation approach. The Company recorded a non-cash charge of   $77 million   (  $50 million  , net of income tax) for the impairment of the VOCRA balance to other expenses in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2012. 
       217 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  5.  Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs, Value of Business Acquired and Other Intangibles (continued) 

   The estimated future amortization expense (credit) to be reported in other expenses for the next five years is as follows: 

6. Reinsurance 
    The Company enters into reinsurance agreements primarily as a purchaser of reinsurance for its various insurance products and also as a provider of reinsurance for some insurance products issued by third parties. The Company participates in reinsurance activities in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to significant risks and provide additional capacity for future growth. 
  Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks. The Company periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluates the financial strength of counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment process discussed in Note   8  . 
  Americas   Excluding Latin America 
  For its Retail Life   Other insurance products, the Company has historically reinsured the mortality risk primarily on an excess of retention basis or on a quota share basis. The Company currently reinsures   90%   of the mortality risk in excess of   $2 million   for most products. In addition to reinsuring mortality risk as described above, the Company reinsures other risks, as well as specific coverages. Placement of reinsurance is done primarily on an automatic basis and also on a facultative basis for risks with specified characteristics. On a case by case basis, the Company may retain up to   $20 million   per life and reinsure   100%   of amounts in excess of the amount the Company retains. The Company evaluates its reinsurance programs routinely and may increase or decrease its retention at any time. 
  The Company s Retail Annuities business reinsures a portion of the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with its variable annuities. Under these reinsurance agreements, the Company pays a reinsurance premium generally based on fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and receives reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations. The value of the embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is determined using a methodology consistent with the guarantees directly written by the Company with the exception of the input for nonperformance risk that reflects the credit of the reinsurer. 
  For certain policies within the Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segment, the Company generally retains most of the risk and only cedes particular risks on certain client arrangements. The majority of the Company s reinsurance activity within this segment relates to client agreements for employer sponsored captive programs, risk-sharing agreements and multinational pooling. 
  The Company, through its property   casualty business within the Retail and Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits segments, purchases reinsurance to manage its exposure to large losses (primarily catastrophe losses) and to protect statutory surplus. The Company cedes to reinsurers losses and premiums based upon the exposure of the policies subject to reinsurance. To manage exposure to large property   casualty losses, the Company purchases property catastrophe, casualty and property per risk excess of loss reinsurance protection.  
  The Company s Corporate Benefit Funding segment has periodically engaged in reinsurance activities, on an opportunistic basis. The impact of these activities on the financial results of this segment has not been significant and there were no additional transactions during the periods presented. 
    218 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  6.  Reinsurance (continued) 

   Latin America, Asia and EMEA 
  For certain life insurance products, the Company currently reinsures risks in excess of   $5 million   to external reinsurers on a yearly renewable term basis. The Company may also reinsure certain risks with external reinsurers depending upon the nature of the risk and local regulatory requirements. For selected large corporate clients, the Company reinsures group employee benefits or credit insurance business with various client-affiliated reinsurance companies, covering policies issued to the employees or customers of the clients. Additionally, the Company cedes and assumes risk with other insurance companies when either company requires a business partner with the appropriate local licensing to issue certain types of policies in certain countries. In these cases, the assuming company typically underwrites the risks, develops the products and assumes most or all of the risk. The Company also has reinsurance agreements in force that reinsure a portion of the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with variable annuity products. Under these agreements, the Company pays reinsurance fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and receives reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations. 
  Corporate   Other 
  The Company also reinsures, through   100%   quota share reinsurance agreements, certain run-off LTC and workers  compensation business written by MetLife USA. 
  Corporate   Other also has a reinsurance agreement, whereby it assumes the living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with certain variable annuity products. Under this agreement, the Company receives reinsurance fees associated with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and provides reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain limitations. 
  Catastrophe Coverage 
  The Company has exposure to catastrophes which could contribute to significant fluctuations in the Company s results of operations. In the Americas, excluding Latin America, the Company uses excess of retention and quota share reinsurance agreements to provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure to larger risks. Currently, for Latin America, Asia and EMEA, the Company purchases catastrophe coverage to insure risks within certain countries deemed by management to be exposed to the greatest catastrophic risks. 
    Reinsurance Recoverables 
  The Company reinsures its business through a diversified group of well-capitalized reinsurers. The Company analyzes recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes, if any, with its reinsurers. The Company monitors ratings and evaluates the financial strength of its reinsurers by analyzing their financial statements. In addition, the reinsurance recoverable balance due from each reinsurer is evaluated as part of the overall monitoring process. Recoverability of reinsurance recoverable balances is evaluated based on these analyses. The Company generally secures large reinsurance recoverable balances with various forms of collateral, including secured trusts, funds withheld accounts and irrevocable letters of credit. These reinsurance recoverable balances are stated net of allowances for uncollectible reinsurance, which at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , were not significant. 
  The Company has secured certain reinsurance recoverable balances with various forms of collateral, including secured trusts, funds withheld accounts and irrevocable letters of credit. The Company had   $5.9 billion   and   $5.6 billion   of unsecured reinsurance recoverable balances at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  At December 31,   2014  , the Company had   $14.9 billion   of net ceded reinsurance recoverables. Of this total,   $10.8 billion  , or   73%  , were with the Company s five largest ceded reinsurers, including   $2.6 billion   of net ceded reinsurance recoverables which were unsecured. At December 31,   2013  , the Company had   $14.4 billion   of net ceded reinsurance recoverables. Of this total,   $10.6 billion  , or   74%  , were with the Company s five largest ceded reinsurers, including   $2.6 billion   of net ceded reinsurance recoverables which were unsecured. 
  The Company has reinsured with an unaffiliated third-party reinsurer,   59.25%   of the closed block through a modified coinsurance agreement. The Company accounts for this agreement under the deposit method of accounting. The Company, having the right of offset, has offset the modified coinsurance deposit with the deposit recoverable. 
    219 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  6.  Reinsurance (continued) 

   The amounts in the consolidated statements of operations include the impact of reinsurance. Information regarding the significant effects of reinsurance was as follows: 

The amounts in the consolidated balance sheets include the impact of reinsurance. Information regarding the significant effects of reinsurance was as follows at: 

220 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  6.  Reinsurance (continued) 

   Reinsurance agreements that do not expose the Company to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance risk are recorded using the deposit method of accounting. The deposit assets on reinsurance were   $2.3 billion   at both December 31,   2014   and   2013  . The deposit liabilities on reinsurance were   $35 million   and   $37 million   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
    7. Closed Block 
    On April 7, 2000 (the  Demutualization Date ), MLIC converted from a mutual life insurance company to a stock life insurance company and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc. The conversion was pursuant to an order by the New York Superintendent of Insurance approving MLIC s plan of reorganization, as amended (the  Plan of Reorganization ). On the Demutualization Date, MLIC established a closed block for the benefit of holders of certain individual life insurance policies of MLIC. Assets have been allocated to the closed block in an amount that has been determined to produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenues from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and taxes, and to provide for the continuation of policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such dividend scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. At least annually, the Company compares actual and projected experience against the experience assumed in the then-current dividend scales. Dividend scales are adjusted periodically to give effect to changes in experience. 
  The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies in the closed block. To the extent that, over time, cash flows from the assets allocated to the closed block and claims and other experience related to the closed block are, in the aggregate, more or less favorable than what was assumed when the closed block was established, total dividends paid to closed block policyholders in the future may be greater than or less than the total dividends that would have been paid to these policyholders if the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999 had been continued. Any cash flows in excess of amounts assumed will be available for distribution over time to closed block policyholders and will not be available to stockholders. If the closed block has insufficient funds to make guaranteed policy benefit payments, such payments will be made from assets outside of the closed block. The closed block will continue in effect as long as any policy in the closed block remains in-force. The expected life of the closed block is over 100 years. 
  The Company uses the same accounting principles to account for the participating policies included in the closed block as it used prior to the Demutualization Date. However, the Company establishes a policyholder dividend obligation for earnings that will be paid to policyholders as additional dividends as described below. The excess of closed block liabilities over closed block assets at the Demutualization Date (adjusted to eliminate the impact of related amounts in AOCI) represents the estimated maximum future earnings from the closed block expected to result from operations attributed to the closed block after income taxes. Earnings of the closed block are recognized in income over the period the policies and contracts in the closed block remain in-force. Management believes that over time the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block will approximately equal the expected cumulative earnings due to the effect of dividend changes. If, over the period the closed block remains in existence, the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block are greater than the expected cumulative earnings of the closed block, the Company will pay the excess of the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block over the expected cumulative earnings to closed block policyholders as additional policyholder dividends unless offset by future unfavorable experience of the closed block and, accordingly, will recognize only the expected cumulative earnings in income with the excess recorded as a policyholder dividend obligation. If over such period, the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block are less than the expected cumulative earnings of the closed block, the Company will recognize only the actual earnings in income. However, the Company may change policyholder dividend scales in the future, which would be intended to increase future actual earnings until the actual cumulative earnings equal the expected cumulative earnings. 
  Experience within the closed block, in particular mortality and investment yields, as well as realized and unrealized gains and losses, directly impact the policyholder dividend obligation. Amortization of the closed block DAC, which resides outside of the closed block, is based upon cumulative actual and expected earnings within the closed block. Accordingly, the Company s net income continues to be sensitive to the actual performance of the closed block. 
  Closed block assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are combined on a line-by-line basis with the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses outside the closed block based on the nature of the particular item. 
    221 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  7.  Closed Block (continued) 

   Information regarding the closed block liabilities and assets designated to the closed block was as follows at: 

Information regarding the closed block policyholder dividend obligation was as follows: 

222 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  7.  Closed Block (continued) 

   Information regarding the closed block revenues and expenses was as follows: 

MLIC charges the closed block with federal income taxes, state and local premium taxes and other additive state or local taxes, as well as investment management expenses relating to the closed block as provided in the Plan of Reorganization. MLIC also charges the closed block for expenses of maintaining the policies included in the closed block. 
    8. Investments 
    See Note   10   for information about the fair value hierarchy for investments and the related valuation methodologies. 
  Investment Risks and Uncertainties 
  Investments are exposed to the following primary sources of risk: credit, interest rate, liquidity, market valuation, currency and real estate risk. The financial statement risks, stemming from such investment risks, are those associated with the determination of estimated fair values, the diminished ability to sell certain investments in times of strained market conditions, the recognition of impairments, the recognition of income on certain investments and the potential consolidation of VIEs. The use of different methodologies, assumptions and inputs relating to these financial statement risks may have a material effect on the amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements. 
  The determination of valuation allowances and impairments is highly subjective and is based upon periodic evaluations and assessments of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. 
  The recognition of income on certain investments (e.g. structured securities, including mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities ( ABS ), certain structured investment transactions and FVO and trading securities) is dependent upon certain factors such as prepayments and defaults, and changes in such factors could result in changes in amounts to be earned. 
    223 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities AFS 
  Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities AFS by Sector 
  The following table presents the fixed maturity and equity securities AFS by sector. Redeemable preferred stock is reported within U.S. corporate and foreign corporate fixed maturity securities and non-redeemable preferred stock is reported within equity securities. Included within fixed maturity securities are structured securities including RMBS, commercial mortgage-backed securities ( CMBS ) and ABS. 

______________ 
           (1) 
    The noncredit loss component of OTTI losses for CMBS was in an unrealized gain position of   $1 million   at December 31, 2014, due to increases in estimated fair value subsequent to initial recognition of noncredit losses on such securities. See also    Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses).  
     The Company held non-income producing fixed maturity securities with an estimated fair value of   $64 million   and   $74 million   with unrealized gains (losses) of   $28 million   and   $23 million   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  Methodology for Amortization of Premium and Accretion of Discount on Structured Securities 
  Amortization of premium and accretion of discount on structured securities considers the estimated timing and amount of prepayments of the underlying loans. Actual prepayment experience is periodically reviewed and effective yields are recalculated when differences arise between the originally anticipated and the actual prepayments received and currently anticipated. Prepayment assumptions for single class and multi-class mortgage-backed and ABS are estimated using inputs obtained from third-party specialists and based on management s knowledge of the current market. For credit-sensitive mortgage-backed and ABS and certain prepayment-sensitive securities, the effective yield is recalculated on a prospective basis. For all other mortgage-backed and ABS, the effective yield is recalculated on a retrospective basis. 
    224 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   Maturities of Fixed Maturity Securities 
  The amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturity securities, by contractual maturity date, were as follows at: 

Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities due to the exercise of call or prepayment options. Fixed maturity securities not due at a single maturity date have been presented in the year of final contractual maturity. RMBS, CMBS and ABS are shown separately, as they are not due at a single maturity. 
    Continuous Gross Unrealized Losses for Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities AFS by Sector 
  The following table presents the estimated fair value and gross unrealized losses of fixed maturity and equity securities AFS in an unrealized loss position, aggregated by sector and by length of time that the securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position. 

225 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   Evaluation of AFS Securities for OTTI and Evaluating Temporarily Impaired AFS Securities 
  Evaluation and Measurement Methodologies 
  Management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent in management s evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the estimated fair value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic loss or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) with respect to fixed maturity securities, whether the Company has the intent to sell or will more likely than not be required to sell a particular security before the decline in estimated fair value below amortized cost recovers; (vii) with respect to structured securities, changes in forecasted cash flows after considering the quality of underlying collateral, expected prepayment speeds, current and forecasted loss severity, consideration of the payment terms of the underlying assets backing a particular security, and the payment priority within the tranche structure of the security; (viii)  the potential for impairments due to weakening of foreign currencies on non-functional currency denominated fixed maturity securities that are near maturity; and (ix) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. 
  The methodology and significant inputs used to determine the amount of credit loss on fixed maturity securities are as follows: 
             
    The Company calculates the recovery value by performing a discounted cash flow analysis based on the present value of future cash flows. The discount rate is generally the effective interest rate of the security prior to impairment. 
                
    When determining collectability and the period over which value is expected to recover, the Company applies considerations utilized in its overall impairment evaluation process which incorporates information regarding the specific security, fundamentals of the industry and geographic area in which the security issuer operates, and overall macroeconomic conditions. Projected future cash flows are estimated using assumptions derived from management s best estimates of likely scenario-based outcomes after giving consideration to a variety of variables that include, but are not limited to: payment terms of the security; the likelihood that the issuer can service the interest and principal payments; the quality and amount of any credit enhancements; the security s position within the capital structure of the issuer; possible corporate restructurings or asset sales by the issuer; and changes to the rating of the security or the issuer by rating agencies. 
                
    Additional considerations are made when assessing the unique features that apply to certain structured securities including, but not limited to: the quality of underlying collateral, expected prepayment speeds, current and forecasted loss severity, consideration of the payment terms of the underlying loans or assets backing a particular security, and the payment priority within the tranche structure of the security. 
                
    When determining the amount of the credit loss for U.S. and foreign corporate securities, foreign government securities and state and political subdivision securities, the estimated fair value is considered the recovery value when available information does not indicate that another value is more appropriate. When information is identified that indicates a recovery value other than estimated fair value, management considers in the determination of recovery value the same considerations utilized in its overall impairment evaluation process as described above, as well as any private and public sector programs to restructure such securities. 
     With respect to securities that have attributes of debt and equity (perpetual hybrid securities), consideration is given in the OTTI analysis as to whether there has been any deterioration in the credit of the issuer and the likelihood of recovery in value of the securities that are in a severe and extended unrealized loss position. Consideration is also given as to whether any perpetual hybrid securities, with an unrealized loss, regardless of credit rating, have deferred any dividend payments. When an OTTI loss has occurred, the OTTI loss is the entire difference between the perpetual hybrid security s cost and its estimated fair value with a corresponding charge to earnings. 
  The cost or amortized cost of fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for OTTI in the period in which the determination is made. The Company does not change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value. 
  In periods subsequent to the recognition of OTTI on a fixed maturity security, the Company accounts for the impaired security as if it had been purchased on the measurement date of the impairment. Accordingly, the discount (or reduced premium) based on the new cost basis is accreted over the remaining term of the fixed maturity security in a prospective manner based on the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows. 
    226 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   Current Period Evaluation 
  Based on the Company s current evaluation of its AFS securities in an unrealized loss position in accordance with its impairment policy, and the Company s current intentions and assessments (as applicable to the type of security) about holding, selling and any requirements to sell these securities, the Company concluded that these securities were not other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31,   2014  . Future OTTI will depend primarily on economic fundamentals, issuer performance (including changes in the present value of future cash flows expected to be collected), and changes in credit ratings, collateral valuation, interest rates and credit spreads. If economic fundamentals deteriorate or if there are adverse changes in the above factors, OTTI may be incurred in upcoming periods. 
  Gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities decreased   $2.6 billion   during the year ended December 31,   2014   from   $4.6 billion   to   $2.0 billion  . The decrease in gross unrealized losses for the year ended December 31,   2014  , was primarily attributable to a decrease in interest rates, partially offset by widening credit spreads. 
  At December 31,   2014  ,   $143 million   of the total   $2.0 billion   of gross unrealized losses were from   51   fixed maturity securities with an unrealized loss position of   20%   or more of amortized cost for six months or greater. 
  Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities 
  Of the   $143 million   of gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities with an unrealized loss of   20%   or more of amortized cost for six months or greater,   $61 million  , or   43%  , are related to gross unrealized losses on   25   investment grade fixed maturity securities. Unrealized losses on investment grade fixed maturity securities are principally related to widening credit spreads and, with respect to fixed-rate fixed maturity securities, rising interest rates since purchase. 
  Below Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities 
  Of the   $143 million   of gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities with an unrealized loss of   20%   or more of amortized cost for six months or greater,   $82 million  , or   57%  , were related to gross unrealized losses on   26   below investment grade fixed maturity securities. Unrealized losses on below investment grade fixed maturity securities are principally related to non-agency RMBS (primarily alternative residential mortgage loans), ABS (primarily foreign ABS) and foreign corporate securities (primarily financial services industry) and are the result of significantly wider credit spreads resulting from higher risk premiums since purchase, largely due to economic and market uncertainties including concerns over valuations of residential real estate supporting non-agency RMBS. Management evaluates non-agency RMBS and ABS based on actual and projected cash flows after considering the quality of underlying collateral, expected prepayment speeds, current and forecasted loss severity, consideration of the payment terms of the underlying assets backing a particular security, and the payment priority within the tranche structure of the security; and evaluates foreign corporate securities based on factors such as expected cash flows and the financial condition and near-term and long-term prospects of the issuer. 
  Equity Securities 
  Gross unrealized losses on equity securities decreased   $50 million   during the year ended December 31,   2014   from   $117 million   to   $67 million  . Of the   $67 million  ,   $27 million   were from   six   equity securities with gross unrealized losses of   20%   or more of cost for 12 months or greater, all of which were financial services industry investment grade non-redeemable preferred stock, of which   22%   were rated A or better. 
    227 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   Mortgage Loans 
  Mortgage Loans by Portfolio Segment 
  Mortgage loans are summarized as follows at: 

______________ 
   See    Variable Interest Entities  for discussion of CSEs. 
  Mortgage Loans, Valuation Allowance and Impaired Loans by Portfolio Segment 
  Mortgage loans held-for-investment by portfolio segment, by method of evaluation of credit loss, impaired mortgage loans including those modified in a troubled debt restructuring, and the related valuation allowances, were as follows at and for the years ended:  

The average recorded investment for commercial, agricultural and residential mortgage loans was   $464 million  ,   $204 million   and   $13 million  , respectively, for the year ended   December 31, 2012  .  
    228 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   Valuation Allowance Rollforward by Portfolio Segment 
  The changes in the valuation allowance, by portfolio segment, were as follows: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    The valuation allowance on and the related carrying value of certain residential mortgage loans held-for-investment were transferred to mortgage loans held-for-sale in connection with the MetLife Bank Divestiture. See Note   3  . 
     Valuation Allowance Methodology 
  Mortgage loans are considered to be impaired when it is probable that, based upon current information and events, the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due under the loan agreement. Specific valuation allowances are established using the same methodology for all three portfolio segments as the excess carrying value of a loan over either (i) the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s original effective interest rate, (ii) the estimated fair value of the loan s underlying collateral if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, or (iii) the loan s observable market price. A common evaluation framework is used for establishing non-specific valuation allowances for all loan portfolio segments; however, a separate non-specific valuation allowance is calculated and maintained for each loan portfolio segment that is based on inputs unique to each loan portfolio segment. Non-specific valuation allowances are established for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics where a property-specific or market-specific risk has not been identified, but for which the Company expects to incur a credit loss. These evaluations are based upon several loan portfolio segment-specific factors, including the Company s experience for loan losses, defaults and loss severity, and loss expectations for loans with similar risk characteristics. These evaluations are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. 
  Commercial and Agricultural Mortgage Loan Portfolio Segments 
  The Company typically uses several years of historical experience in establishing non-specific valuation allowances which captures multiple economic cycles. For evaluations of commercial mortgage loans, in addition to historical experience, management considers factors that include the impact of a rapid change to the economy, which may not be reflected in the loan portfolio, and recent loss and recovery trend experience as compared to historical loss and recovery experience. For evaluations of agricultural mortgage loans, in addition to historical experience, management considers factors that include increased stress in certain sectors, which may be evidenced by higher delinquency rates, or a change in the number of higher risk loans. On a quarterly basis, management incorporates the impact of these current market events and conditions on historical experience in determining the non-specific valuation allowance established for commercial and agricultural mortgage loans. 
    229 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   All commercial mortgage loans are reviewed on an ongoing basis which may include an analysis of the property financial statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis, property inspections, market analysis, estimated valuations of the underlying collateral, loan-to-value ratios, debt service coverage ratios, and tenant creditworthiness. The monitoring process focuses on higher risk loans, which include those that are classified as restructured, delinquent or in foreclosure, as well as loans with higher loan-to-value ratios and lower debt service coverage ratios. All agricultural mortgage loans are monitored on an ongoing basis. The monitoring process for agricultural mortgage loans is generally similar to the commercial mortgage loan monitoring process, with a focus on higher risk loans, including reviews on a geographic and property-type basis. Higher risk loans are reviewed individually on an ongoing basis for potential credit loss and specific valuation allowances are established using the methodology described above. Quarterly, the remaining loans are reviewed on a pool basis by aggregating groups of loans that have similar risk characteristics for potential credit loss, and non-specific valuation allowances are established as described above using inputs that are unique to each segment of the loan portfolio. 
  For commercial mortgage loans, the primary credit quality indicator is the debt service coverage ratio, which compares a property s net operating income to amounts needed to service the principal and interest due under the loan. Generally, the lower the debt service coverage ratio, the higher the risk of experiencing a credit loss. The Company also reviews the loan-to-value ratio of its commercial mortgage loan portfolio. Loan-to-value ratios compare the unpaid principal balance of the loan to the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral. Generally, the higher the loan-to-value ratio, the higher the risk of experiencing a credit loss. The debt service coverage ratio and loan-to-value ratio, as well as the values utilized in calculating these ratios, are updated annually, on a rolling basis, with a portion of the loan portfolio updated each quarter. 
  For agricultural mortgage loans, the Company s primary credit quality indicator is the loan-to-value ratio. The values utilized in calculating this ratio are developed in connection with the ongoing review of the agricultural mortgage loan portfolio and are routinely updated. 
  Residential Mortgage Loan Portfolio Segment 
  The Company s residential mortgage loan portfolio is comprised primarily of closed end, amortizing residential mortgage loans. For evaluations of residential mortgage loans, the key inputs of expected frequency and expected loss reflect current market conditions, with expected frequency adjusted, when appropriate, for differences from market conditions and the Company s historical experience. In contrast to the commercial and agricultural mortgage loan portfolios, residential mortgage loans are smaller-balance homogeneous loans that are collectively evaluated for impairment. Non-specific valuation allowances are established using the evaluation framework described above for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics from inputs that are unique to the residential segment of the loan portfolio. Loan specific valuation allowances are only established on residential mortgage loans when they have been restructured and are established using the methodology described above for all loan portfolio segments. 
  For residential mortgage loans, the Company s primary credit quality indicator is whether the loan is performing or nonperforming. The Company generally defines nonperforming residential mortgage loans as those that are 60 or more days past due and/or in non-accrual status which is assessed monthly. Generally, nonperforming residential mortgage loans have a higher risk of experiencing a credit loss. 
    230 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   Credit Quality of Commercial Mortgage Loans 
  The credit quality of commercial mortgage loans held-for-investment were as follows at: 

Credit Quality of Agricultural Mortgage Loans 
  The credit quality of agricultural mortgage loans held-for-investment were as follows at: 

The estimated fair value of agricultural mortgage loans held-for-investment was   $12.8 billion   and   $12.7 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  Credit Quality of Residential Mortgage Loans 
  The credit quality of residential mortgage loans held-for-investment were as follows at: 

The estimated fair value of residential mortgage loans held-for-investment was   $6.6 billion   and   $2.8 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
    231 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   Past Due and Interest Accrual Status of Mortgage Loans 
  The Company has a high quality, well performing mortgage loan portfolio, with   99%   of all mortgage loans classified as performing at both December 31,   2014   and   2013  . The Company defines delinquency consistent with industry practice, when mortgage loans are past due as follows: commercial and residential mortgage loans   60 days and agricultural mortgage loans   90 days. The past due and accrual status of mortgage loans at recorded investment, prior to valuation allowances, by portfolio segment, were as follows at: 

Mortgage Loans Modified in a Troubled Debt Restructuring 
  For a small portion of the mortgage loan portfolio, classified as troubled debt restructurings, concessions are granted related to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. Generally, the types of concessions include: reduction of the contractual interest rate, extension of the maturity date at an interest rate lower than current market interest rates, and/or a reduction of accrued interest. The amount, timing and extent of the concession granted is considered in determining any impairment or changes in the specific valuation allowance. During the years ended   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , the Company did not have a significant amount of mortgage loans modified in a troubled debt restructuring. 
    Other Invested Assets 
  Other invested assets is comprised primarily of freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair values (see Note   9  ), tax credit and renewable energy partnerships, and leveraged and direct financing leases. 
  Leveraged and Direct Financing Leases 
  Investment in leveraged and direct financing leases consisted of the following at: 

Rental receivables are generally due in periodic installments.   The payment periods for leveraged leases generally range from one to 15 years but in certain circumstances can be over 30 years, while the payment periods for direct financing leases range from one to 30 years.   For rental receivables, the primary credit quality indicator is whether the rental receivable is performing or nonperforming, which is assessed monthly. The Company generally defines nonperforming rental receivables as those that are 90 days or more past due. At December 31,   2014   and   2013  , all leveraged lease receivables were performing and over   99%   of direct financing rental receivables were performing. 
  The deferred income tax liability related to leveraged leases was   $1.5 billion   and   $1.6 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
    232 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   The components of income from investment in leveraged and direct financing leases, excluding net investment gains (losses), were as follows:  

Cash Equivalents 
  The carrying value of cash equivalents, which includes securities and other investments with an original or remaining maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase, was   $4.5 billion   and   $3.8 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
    Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses) 
  Unrealized investment gains (losses) on fixed maturity and equity securities AFS and the effect on DAC, VOBA, DSI, future policy benefits and the policyholder dividend obligation that would result from the realization of the unrealized gains (losses), are included in net unrealized investment gains (losses) in AOCI. 
  The components of net unrealized investment gains (losses), included in AOCI, were as follows:  

233 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   The changes in fixed maturity securities with noncredit OTTI losses included in AOCI were as follows: 

The changes in net unrealized investment gains (losses) were as follows: 

234 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   Concentrations of Credit Risk 
  Investments in any counterparty that were greater than   10%   of the Company s equity, other than the U.S. government and its agencies, were in fixed income securities of the Japanese government and its agencies with an estimated fair value of   $20.3 billion   and   $21.7 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. The Company s investment in fixed maturity and equity securities to counterparties that primarily conduct business in Japan, including Japan government and agency fixed maturity securities, was   $25.5 billion   and   $26.9 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  Securities Lending 
  Elements of the securities lending program are presented below at: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Included within fixed maturity securities, short-term investments, equity securities and cash and cash equivalents. 
              (2) 
    Included within payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions. 
              (3) 
    Security collateral on deposit from counterparties may not be sold or re-pledged, unless the counterparty is in default, and is not reflected in the consolidated financial statements. 
       Invested Assets on Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as Collateral 
  Invested assets on deposit, held in trust and pledged as collateral are presented below at estimated fair value for all asset classes, except mortgage loans, which are presented at carrying value at:  

______________ 
           (1) 
    In November 2014, MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut ( MICC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc., re-domesticated from Connecticut to Delaware, changed its name to MetLife Insurance Company USA and merged with its subsidiary, MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company ( MLI-USA ), and its affiliate, MetLife Investors Insurance Company (   MLIIC )  , each a U.S. insurance company that issued variable annuity products in addition to other products, and Exeter Reassurance Company, Ltd. ( Exeter ), a former offshore reinsurance subsidiary of MetLife, Inc. and affiliate of MICC that mainly reinsured guarantees associated with variable annuity products (the  Mergers ). The surviving entity of the Mergers was MetLife Insurance Company USA ( MetLife USA ). Exeter, formerly a Cayman Islands company, was re-domesticated to Delaware in October 2013. In anticipation of the Mergers, effective January 1, 2014, following receipt of New York State Department of Financial Services (the  Department of Financial Services ) approval, MICC withdrew its license to issue insurance policies and annuity contracts in New York. Also effective January 1, 2014, MICC reinsured with an affiliate all existing New York insurance policies and annuity contracts that include a separate account feature and deposited investments with an estimated fair market value of     $6.3 billion     into a custodial account to secure MICC s remaining New York policyholder liabilities not covered by such reinsurance. 
              (2) 
    The Company has pledged invested assets in connection with various agreements and transactions, including funding agreements (see Notes   4   and   12  ), collateral financing arrangements (see Note   13  ) and derivative transactions (see Note   9  ). 
     See    Securities Lending  for information regarding securities on loan and Note 7 for information regarding investments designated to the closed block. 
    235 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   Purchased Credit Impaired Investments 
  Investments acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination and for which it is probable at the acquisition date that the Company will be unable to collect all contractually required payments are classified as purchased credit impaired ( PCI ) investments. For each investment, the excess of the cash flows expected to be collected as of the acquisition date over its acquisition date fair value is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized as net investment income on an effective yield basis. If, subsequently, based on current information and events, it is probable that there is a significant increase in cash flows previously expected to be collected or if actual cash flows are significantly greater than cash flows previously expected to be collected, the accretable yield is adjusted prospectively. The excess of the contractually required payments (including interest) as of the acquisition date over the cash flows expected to be collected as of the acquisition date is referred to as the nonaccretable difference, and this amount is not expected to be realized as net investment income. Decreases in cash flows expected to be collected can result in OTTI or the recognition of mortgage loan valuation allowances. 
  The Company s PCI investments, by invested asset class, were as follows at: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Represents the contractually required payments, which is the sum of contractual principal, whether or not currently due, and accrued interest. 
              (2) 
    Estimated fair value plus accrued interest for fixed maturity securities and amortized cost, plus accrued interest, less any valuation allowances, for mortgage loans. 
     The following table presents information about PCI investments acquired during the periods indicated: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Represents undiscounted principal and interest cash flow expectations, at the date of acquisition. 
     The following table presents activity for the accretable yield on PCI investments: 

236 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   Collectively Significant Equity Method Investments 
  The Company holds investments in real estate joint ventures, real estate funds and other limited partnership interests consisting of leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, joint ventures and other funds. The portion of these investments accounted for under the equity method had a carrying value of   $14.3 billion   at December 31,   2014  . The Company s maximum exposure to loss related to these equity method investments is limited to the carrying value of these investments plus unfunded commitments of   $4.1 billion   at December 31,   2014  . Except for certain real estate joint ventures, the Company s investments in real estate funds and other limited partnership interests are generally of a passive nature in that the Company does not participate in the management of the entities. 
  As described in Note   1  , the Company generally records its share of earnings in its equity method investments using a three-month lag methodology and within net investment income. Aggregate net investment income from these equity method investments exceeded   10%   of the Company s consolidated pre-tax income (loss) from continuing operations for two of the three most recent annual periods:   2013   and   2012  . The Company is providing the following aggregated summarized financial data for such equity method investments, for the most recent annual periods, in order to provide comparative information. This aggregated summarized financial data does not represent the Company s proportionate share of the assets, liabilities, or earnings of such entities. 
  The aggregated summarized financial data presented below reflects the latest available financial information and is as of, and for, the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  . Aggregate total assets of these entities totaled   $385.7 billion   and   $303.4 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Aggregate total liabilities of these entities totaled   $39.5 billion   and   $29.7 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Aggregate net income (loss) of these entities totaled   $34.9 billion  ,   $26.3 billion   and   $17.9 billion   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. Aggregate net income (loss) from the underlying entities in which the Company invests is primarily comprised of investment income, including recurring investment income and realized and unrealized investment gains (losses). 
    Variable Interest Entities 
  The Company has invested in certain structured transactions (including CSEs), formed trusts to invest proceeds from certain collateral financing arrangements and has insurance operations that are VIEs. In certain instances, the Company holds both the power to direct the most significant activities of the entity, as well as an economic interest in the entity and, as such, is deemed to be the primary beneficiary or consolidator of the entity. 
  The determination of the VIE s primary beneficiary requires an evaluation of the contractual and implied rights and obligations associated with each party s relationship with or involvement in the entity, an estimate of the entity s expected losses and expected residual returns and the allocation of such estimates to each party involved in the entity. The Company generally uses a qualitative approach to determine whether it is the primary beneficiary. However, for VIEs that are investment companies or apply measurement principles consistent with those utilized by investment companies, the primary beneficiary is based on a risks and rewards model and is defined as the entity that will absorb a majority of a VIE s expected losses, receive a majority of a VIE s expected residual returns if no single entity absorbs a majority of expected losses, or both. The Company reassesses its involvement with VIEs on a quarterly basis. The use of different methodologies, assumptions and inputs in the determination of the primary beneficiary could have a material effect on the amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements. 
  Consolidated VIEs 
  The following table presents the total assets and total liabilities relating to VIEs for which the Company has concluded that it is the primary beneficiary and which are consolidated at December 31,   2014   and   2013  . Creditors or beneficial interest holders of VIEs where the Company is the primary beneficiary have no recourse to the general credit of the Company, as the Company s obligation to the VIEs is limited to the amount of its committed investment. 
    237 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

______________ 
           (1) 
    See Note   13   for a description of the MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina ( MRSC ) collateral financing arrangement. 
              (2) 
    Assets of the operating joint venture are primarily fixed maturity securities and separate account assets. Liabilities of the operating joint venture are primarily future policy benefits, other policyholder funds and separate account liabilities. 
              (3) 
    The Company consolidates entities that are structured as CMBS and as collateralized debt obligations. The assets of these entities can only be used to settle their respective liabilities, and under no circumstances is the Company liable for any principal or interest shortfalls should any arise. The Company s exposure was limited to that of its remaining investment in these entities of   $123 million   and   $154 million   at estimated fair value at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. The long-term debt bears interest primarily at fixed rates ranging from   2.25%   to   5.57%  , payable primarily on a monthly basis. Interest expense related to these obligations, included in other expenses, was   $38 million  ,   $122 million   and   $163 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012   respectively. 
              (4) 
    At   December 31, 2013  , the Company consolidated an open ended core real estate fund formed in the fourth quarter of   2013   (the  MetLife Core Property Fund ), which represented the majority of the balances at   December 31, 2013  . As a result of the quarterly reassessment in the first quarter of 2014, the Company no longer consolidated the MetLife Core Property Fund, effective March 31, 2014, based on the terms of the revised partnership agreement. The Company accounts for its retained interest in the real estate fund under the equity method. Assets of the real estate fund are a real estate investment trust which holds primarily traditional core income-producing real estate which has associated liabilities that are primarily non-recourse debt secured by certain real estate assets of the fund. The assets of these entities can only be used to settle their respective liabilities, and under no circumstances is the Company liable for any principal or interest shortfalls should any arise. The Company s exposure was limited to that of its investment in the real estate fund of   $178 million   at carrying value at December 31,   2013  . The long-term debt bears interest primarily at fixed rates ranging from   1.39%   to   4.45%  , payable primarily on a monthly basis.  
       238 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   Unconsolidated VIEs 
  The carrying amount and maximum exposure to loss relating to VIEs in which the Company holds a significant variable interest but is not the primary beneficiary and which have not been consolidated were as follows at: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    The maximum exposure to loss relating to fixed maturity securities AFS, FVO and trading securities and equity securities AFS is equal to their carrying amounts or the carrying amounts of retained interests. The maximum exposure to loss relating to other limited partnership interests, mortgage loans and real estate joint ventures is equal to the carrying amounts plus any unfunded commitments of the Company. For certain of its investments in other invested assets, the Company s return is in the form of income tax credits which are guaranteed by creditworthy third parties. For such investments, the maximum exposure to loss is equal to the carrying amounts plus any unfunded commitments, reduced by income tax credits guaranteed by third parties of   $212 million   and   $257 million   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Such a maximum loss would be expected to occur only upon bankruptcy of the issuer or investee. 
              (2) 
    For these variable interests, the Company s involvement is limited to that of a passive investor in mortgage-backed or asset-backed securities issued by trusts that do not have substantial equity. 
     As described in Note   21  , the Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in the normal course of business. Excluding these commitments, the Company did not provide financial or other support to investees designated as VIEs during the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  . 
    239 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

Net Investment Income 
  The components of net investment income were as follows: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Changes in estimated fair value subsequent to purchase for securities still held as of the end of the respective years included in net investment income were as follows: 

See    Variable Interest Entities  for discussion of CSEs. 
    240 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   Net Investment Gains (Losses) 
  Components of Net Investment Gains (Losses) 
  The components of net investment gains (losses) were as follows: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Non-investment portfolio gains (losses) for the year ended December 31,   2014   includes a loss of   $633 million   related to the disposition of MAL as more fully described in Note 3.  
     See    Variable Interest Entities  for discussion of CSEs. 
    241 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  8.  Investments (continued) 

   Gains (losses) from foreign currency transactions included within net investment gains (losses) were   ($183) million  ,   $171 million   and   ($112) million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
  Sales or Disposals and Impairments of Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities 
  Proceeds from sales or disposals of fixed maturity and equity securities and the components of fixed maturity and equity securities net investment gains (losses) are as shown in the table below. Investment gains and losses on sales of securities are determined on a specific identification basis. 
   
 ______________ 
  (1)    OTTI losses recognized in earnings include noncredit-related impairment losses of   $0  ,   $19 million   and   $94 million   for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, on (i) perpetual hybrid securities classified within fixed maturity securities where the primary reason for the impairment was the severity and/or the duration of an unrealized loss position, and (ii) fixed maturity securities where there is an intent to sell or it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value. 
    Credit Loss Rollforward 
  The table below presents a rollforward of the cumulative credit loss component of OTTI loss recognized in earnings on fixed maturity securities still held for which a portion of the OTTI loss was recognized in OCI: 
                               
    Years Ended December 31, 
        
    2014 
      
    2013 
        
    (In millions) 
      Balance at January 1, 
    $ 
    378 

$ 
    392 
      
      Additions: 

Initial impairments   credit loss OTTI recognized on securities not previously impaired 
    2 

6 
      
      Additional impairments   credit loss OTTI recognized on securities previously impaired 
    25 

69 
      
      Reductions: 

Sales (maturities, pay downs or prepayments) of securities previously impaired as credit loss OTTI 
    (40 
    ) 
      
    (87 
    ) 
      Securities impaired to net present value of expected future cash flows 
    (7 
    ) 

Increases in cash flows   accretion of previous credit loss OTTI 
    (1 
    ) 
      
    (2 
    ) 
      Balance at December 31, 
    $ 
    357 

$ 
    378 

242 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 

   9. Derivatives 
    Accounting for Derivatives 
  See Note   1   for a description of the Company s accounting policies for derivatives and Note   10   for information about the fair value hierarchy for derivatives. 
  Derivative Strategies 
  The Company is exposed to various risks relating to its ongoing business operations, including interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, credit and equity market. The Company uses a variety of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivatives. 
  Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit spreads and/or other financial indices. Derivatives may be exchange-traded or contracted in the over-the-counter ( OTC ) market. Certain of the Company s OTC derivatives are cleared and settled through central clearing counterparties ( OTC-cleared ), while others are bilateral contracts between two counterparties ( OTC-bilateral ). The types of derivatives the Company uses include swaps, forwards, futures and option contracts. To a lesser extent, the Company uses credit default swaps and structured interest rate swaps to synthetically replicate investment risks and returns which are not readily available in the cash market.  
  Interest Rate Derivatives 
  The Company uses a variety of interest rate derivatives to reduce its exposure to changes in interest rates, including interest rate swaps, caps, floors, swaptions, futures and forwards. 
  Interest rate swaps are used by the Company primarily to reduce market risks from changes in interest rates and to alter interest rate exposure arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities (duration mismatches). In an interest rate swap, the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed rate and floating rate interest amounts as calculated by reference to an agreed notional amount. The Company utilizes interest rate swaps in fair value, cash flow and non-qualifying hedging relationships. 
  The Company uses structured interest rate swaps to synthetically create investments that are either more expensive to acquire or otherwise unavailable in the cash markets. These transactions are a combination of a derivative and a cash instrument such as a U.S. Treasury, agency, or other fixed maturity security. Structured interest rate swaps are included in interest rate swaps. Structured interest rate swaps are not designated as hedging instruments. 
  The Company purchases interest rate caps and floors primarily to protect its floating rate liabilities against rises in interest rates above a specified level, and against interest rate exposure arising from mismatches between assets and liabilities, as well as to protect its minimum rate guarantee liabilities against declines in interest rates below a specified level, respectively. In certain instances, the Company locks in the economic impact of existing purchased caps and floors by entering into offsetting written caps and floors. The Company utilizes interest rate caps and floors in non-qualifying hedging relationships. 
  In exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) futures transactions, the Company agrees to purchase or sell a specified number of contracts, the value of which is determined by the different classes of interest rate securities, and to post variation margin on a daily basis in an amount equal to the difference in the daily market values of those contracts. The Company enters into exchange-traded futures with regulated futures commission merchants that are members of the exchange. Exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) futures are used primarily to hedge mismatches between the duration of assets in a portfolio and the duration of liabilities supported by those assets, to hedge against changes in value of securities the Company owns or anticipates acquiring, to hedge against changes in interest rates on anticipated liability issuances by replicating Treasury or swap curve performance, and to hedge minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products offered by the Company. The Company utilizes exchange-traded interest rate futures in non-qualifying hedging relationships. 
  Swaptions are used by the Company to hedge interest rate risk associated with the Company s long-term liabilities and invested assets. A swaption is an option to enter into a swap with a forward starting effective date. In certain instances, the Company locks in the economic impact of existing purchased swaptions by entering into offsetting written swaptions. The Company pays a premium for purchased swaptions and receives a premium for written swaptions. The Company utilizes swaptions in non-qualifying hedging relationships. Swaptions are included in interest rate options. 
  The Company enters into interest rate forwards to buy and sell securities. The price is agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for such a contract is made at a specified future date. The Company utilizes interest rate forwards in cash flow hedging relationships. 
    243 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  9.  Derivatives (continued) 

   Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Derivatives 
  The Company uses foreign currency exchange rate derivatives, including foreign currency swaps, foreign currency forwards, currency options and exchange-traded currency futures, to reduce the risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates associated with its assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. The Company also uses foreign currency derivatives to hedge the foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with certain of its net investments in foreign operations. 
  In a foreign currency swap transaction, the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between one currency and another at a fixed exchange rate, generally set at inception, calculated by reference to an agreed upon notional amount. The notional amount of each currency is exchanged at the inception and termination of the currency swap by each party. The Company utilizes foreign currency swaps in fair value, cash flow and non-qualifying hedging relationships. 
  In a foreign currency forward transaction, the Company agrees with another party to deliver a specified amount of an identified currency at a specified future date. The price is agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for such a contract is made at the specified future date. The Company utilizes foreign currency forwards in fair value, net investment in foreign operations and non-qualifying hedging relationships. 
  The Company enters into currency options that give it the right, but not the obligation, to sell the foreign currency amount in exchange for a functional currency amount within a limited time at a contracted price. The contracts may also be net settled in cash, based on differentials in the foreign currency exchange rate and the strike price. The Company uses currency options to hedge against the foreign currency exposure inherent in certain of its variable annuity products. The Company also uses currency options as an economic hedge of foreign currency exposure related to the Company s international subsidiaries. The Company utilizes currency options in net investment in foreign operations and non-qualifying hedging relationships. 
  To a lesser extent, the Company uses exchange-traded currency futures to hedge currency mismatches between assets and liabilities, and to hedge minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products offered by the Company. The Company utilizes exchange-traded currency futures in non-qualifying hedging relationships. 
  Credit Derivatives 
  The Company enters into purchased credit default swaps to hedge against credit-related changes in the value of its investments. In a credit default swap transaction, the Company agrees with another party to pay, at specified intervals, a premium to hedge credit risk. If a credit event occurs, as defined by the contract, the contract may be cash settled or it may be settled gross by the delivery of par quantities of the referenced investment equal to the specified swap notional amount in exchange for the payment of cash amounts by the counterparty equal to the par value of the investment surrendered. Credit events vary by type of issuer but typically include bankruptcy, failure to pay debt obligations, repudiation, moratorium, involuntary restructuring or governmental intervention. In each case, payout on a credit default swap is triggered only after the Credit Derivatives Determinations Committee of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. ( ISDA ) deems that a credit event has occurred. The Company utilizes credit default swaps in non-qualifying hedging relationships. 
  The Company enters into written credit default swaps to synthetically create credit investments that are either more expensive to acquire or otherwise unavailable in the cash markets. These transactions are a combination of a derivative and one or more cash instruments, such as U.S. Treasury securities, agency securities or other fixed maturity securities. These credit default swaps are not designated as hedging instruments. 
  The Company also enters into certain purchased and written credit default swaps held in relation to trading portfolios for the purpose of generating profits on short-term differences in price. These credit default swaps are not designated as hedging instruments. 
  The Company enters into forwards to lock in the price to be paid for forward purchases of certain securities. The price is agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for the contract is made at a specified future date. When the primary purpose of entering into these transactions is to hedge against the risk of changes in purchase price due to changes in credit spreads, the Company designates these as credit forwards. The Company utilizes credit forwards in cash flow hedging relationships. 
  Equity Derivatives 
  The Company uses a variety of equity derivatives to reduce its exposure to equity market risk, including equity index options, equity variance swaps, exchange-traded equity futures and total rate of return swaps ( TRRs ). 
    244 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  9.  Derivatives (continued) 

   Equity index options are used by the Company primarily to hedge minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products offered by the Company. To hedge against adverse changes in equity indices, the Company enters into contracts to sell the equity index within a limited time at a contracted price. The contracts will be net settled in cash based on differentials in the indices at the time of exercise and the strike price. Certain of these contracts may also contain settlement provisions linked to interest rates. In certain instances, the Company may enter into a combination of transactions to hedge adverse changes in equity indices within a pre-determined range through the purchase and sale of options. The Company utilizes equity index options in non-qualifying hedging relationships. 
  Equity variance swaps are used by the Company primarily to hedge minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products offered by the Company. In an equity variance swap, the Company agrees with another party to exchange amounts in the future, based on changes in equity volatility over a defined period. The Company utilizes equity variance swaps in non-qualifying hedging relationships. 
  In exchange-traded equity futures transactions, the Company agrees to purchase or sell a specified number of contracts, the value of which is determined by the different classes of equity securities, and to post variation margin on a daily basis in an amount equal to the difference in the daily market values of those contracts. The Company enters into exchange-traded futures with regulated futures commission merchants that are members of the exchange. Exchange-traded equity futures are used primarily to hedge minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products offered by the Company. The Company utilizes exchange-traded equity futures in non-qualifying hedging relationships. 
  TRRs are swaps whereby the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between the economic risk and reward of an asset or a market index and the LIBOR, calculated by reference to an agreed notional amount. No cash is exchanged at the outset of the contract. Cash is paid and received over the life of the contract based on the terms of the swap. The Company uses TRRs to hedge its equity market guarantees in certain of its insurance products. TRRs can be used as hedges or to synthetically create investments. The Company utilizes TRRs in non-qualifying hedging relationships. 
    245 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  9.  Derivatives (continued) 

   Primary Risks Managed by Derivatives 
  The following table presents the gross notional amount, estimated fair value and primary underlying risk exposure of the Company s derivatives, excluding embedded derivatives, held at: 

246 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  9.  Derivatives (continued) 

   Based on gross notional amounts, a substantial portion of the Company s derivatives was not designated or did not qualify as part of a hedging relationship at both   December 31, 2014   and   2013  . The Company s use of derivatives includes (i) derivatives that serve as macro hedges of the Company s exposure to various risks and that generally do not qualify for hedge accounting due to the criteria required under the portfolio hedging rules; (ii) derivatives that economically hedge insurance liabilities that contain mortality or morbidity risk and that generally do not qualify for hedge accounting because the lack of these risks in the derivatives cannot support an expectation of a highly effective hedging relationship; (iii) derivatives that economically hedge embedded derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting because the changes in estimated fair value of the embedded derivatives are already recorded in net income; and (iv) written credit default swaps that are used to synthetically create credit investments and that do not qualify for hedge accounting because they do not involve a hedging relationship. For these non-qualified derivatives, changes in market factors can lead to the recognition of fair value changes on the statement of operations without an offsetting gain or loss recognized in earnings for the item being hedged. 
    Net Derivative Gains (Losses) 
  The components of net derivative gains (losses) were as follows: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Includes foreign currency transaction gains (losses) on hedged items in cash flow and non-qualifying hedging relationships, which are not presented elsewhere in this note. 
       The following table presents earned income on derivatives: 

247 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  9.  Derivatives (continued) 

   Non-Qualifying Derivatives and Derivatives for Purposes Other Than Hedging 
  The following table presents the amount and location of gains (losses) recognized in income for derivatives that were not designated or qualifying as hedging instruments: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Changes in estimated fair value related to economic hedges of equity method investments in joint ventures, derivatives held in relation to trading portfolios and derivatives held within contractholder-directed unit-linked investments. 
              (2) 
    Changes in estimated fair value related to economic hedges of variable annuity guarantees included in future policy benefits. 
              (3) 
    Changes in estimated fair value related to derivatives held in connection with the Company s mortgage banking activities prior to the MetLife Bank Divestiture. 
       Fair Value Hedges 
  The Company designates and accounts for the following as fair value hedges when they have met the requirements of fair value hedging: (i) interest rate swaps to convert fixed rate assets and liabilities to floating rate assets and liabilities; (ii) foreign currency swaps to hedge the foreign currency fair value exposure of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities; and (iii) foreign currency forwards to hedge the foreign currency fair value exposure of foreign currency denominated investments. 
    248 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  9.  Derivatives (continued) 

   The Company recognizes gains and losses on derivatives and the related hedged items in fair value hedges within net derivative gains (losses). The following table presents the amount of such net derivative gains (losses): 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Fixed rate liabilities reported in PABs or future policy benefits. 
              (2) 
    Fixed rate or floating rate liabilities. 
     For the Company s foreign currency forwards, the change in the fair value of the derivative related to the changes in the difference between the spot price and the forward price is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. For all other derivatives, all components of each derivative s gain or loss were included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness. For the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , the component of the change in fair value of derivatives that was excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness was   $3 million  ,   ($2) million   and   ($4) million  , respectively.  
    Cash Flow Hedges 
  The Company designates and accounts for the following as cash flow hedges when they have met the requirements of cash flow hedging: (i) interest rate swaps to convert floating rate assets and liabilities to fixed rate assets and liabilities; (ii) foreign currency swaps to hedge the foreign currency cash flow exposure of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities; (iii) interest rate forwards and credit forwards to lock in the price to be paid for forward purchases of investments; (iv) interest rate swaps and interest rate forwards to hedge the forecasted purchases of fixed-rate investments; and (v) interest rate swaps and interest rate forwards to hedge forecasted fixed-rate borrowings. 
  In certain instances, the Company discontinued cash flow hedge accounting because the forecasted transactions were no longer probable of occurring. Because certain of the forecasted transactions also were not probable of occurring within two months of the anticipated date, the Company reclassified certain amounts from AOCI into net derivative gains (losses). These amounts were   ($15) million  ,   ($1) million   and   $1 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
  At December 31,   2014   and   2013  , the maximum length of time over which the Company was hedging its exposure to variability in future cash flows for forecasted transactions did not exceed   six   years and   seven   years, respectively. 
    249 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  9.  Derivatives (continued) 

   At December 31,   2014   and   2013  , the balance in AOCI associated with cash flow hedges was   $1.8 billion   and   $375 million  , respectively. 
  The following table presents the effects of derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships on the consolidated statements of operations and the consolidated statements of equity: 

All components of each derivative s gain or loss were included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness. 
  At December 31,   2014  ,   ($4) million   of deferred net gains (losses) on derivatives in AOCI was expected to be reclassified to earnings within the next 12 months. 
    Hedges of Net Investments in Foreign Operations 
  The Company uses foreign currency exchange rate derivatives, which may include foreign currency forwards and currency options, to hedge portions of its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. The Company measures ineffectiveness on these derivatives based upon the change in forward rates.  
  When net investments in foreign operations are sold or substantially liquidated, the amounts in AOCI are reclassified to the statement of operations. 
    250 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  9.  Derivatives (continued) 

   The following table presents the effects of derivatives in net investment hedging relationships on the consolidated statements of operations and the consolidated statements of equity: 
   
 ______________ 
           (1) 
    In May 2014, the Company sold its interest in MAL, which was a hedged item in a net investment hedging relationship. See Note 3. As a result, during the   year ended December 31, 2014  , the Company released losses of   $77 million   from AOCI into earnings upon the sale. During the years ended December 31,   2013   and   2012  , there were   no   sales or substantial liquidations of net investments in foreign operations that would have required the reclassification of gains or losses from AOCI into earnings.  
              (2) 
    There was   no   ineffectiveness recognized for the Company s hedges of net investments in foreign operations. All components of each derivative s gain or loss were included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness. 
     At December 31,   2014   and   2013  , the cumulative foreign currency translation gain (loss) recorded in AOCI related to hedges of net investments in foreign operations was   $940 million   and   $233 million  , respectively. 
    Credit Derivatives 
  In connection with synthetically created credit investment transactions and credit default swaps held in relation to the trading portfolio, the Company writes credit default swaps for which it receives a premium to insure credit risk. Such credit derivatives are included within the non-qualifying derivatives and derivatives for purposes other than hedging table. If a credit event occurs, as defined by the contract, the contract may be cash settled or it may be settled gross by the Company paying the counterparty the specified swap notional amount in exchange for the delivery of par quantities of the referenced credit obligation. The Company s maximum amount at risk, assuming the value of all referenced credit obligations is zero, was   $10.5 billion   and   $9.1 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. The Company can terminate these contracts at any time through cash settlement with the counterparty at an amount equal to the then current fair value of the credit default swaps. At December 31,   2014   and   2013  , the Company would have received   $175 million     and   $165 million  , respectively, to terminate all of these contracts. 
    251 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  9.  Derivatives (continued) 

   The following table presents the estimated fair value, maximum amount of future payments and weighted average years to maturity of written credit default swaps at: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    The rating agency designations are based on availability and the midpoint of the applicable ratings among Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s ), S P and Fitch Ratings. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then an internally developed rating is used. 
              (2) 
    Assumes the value of the referenced credit obligations is zero. 
              (3) 
    The weighted average years to maturity of the credit default swaps is calculated based on weighted average gross notional amounts. 
     The Company has also entered into credit default swaps to purchase credit protection on certain of the referenced credit obligations in the table above. As a result, the maximum amounts of potential future recoveries available to offset the   $10.5 billion   and   $9.1 billion   from the table above were   $75 million   and   $90 million   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  Written credit default swaps held in relation to the trading portfolio amounted to   $15 million   and   $10 million   in gross notional amount and   $1 million   and   $0   in fair value at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
    Credit Risk on Freestanding Derivatives 
  The Company may be exposed to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to derivatives. Generally, the current credit exposure of the Company s derivatives is limited to the net positive estimated fair value of derivatives at the reporting date after taking into consideration the existence of master netting or similar agreements and any collateral received pursuant to such agreements. 
    252 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  9.  Derivatives (continued) 

   The Company manages its credit risk related to derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy counterparties and establishing and monitoring exposure limits. The Company s OTC-bilateral derivative transactions are generally governed by ISDA Master Agreements which provide for legally enforceable set-off and close-out netting of exposures to specific counterparties in the event of early termination of a transaction, which includes, but is not limited to, events of default and bankruptcy. In the event of an early termination, the Company is permitted to set off receivables from the counterparty against payables to the same counterparty arising out of all included transactions. Substantially all of the Company s ISDA Master Agreements also include Credit Support Annex provisions which require both the pledging and accepting of collateral in connection with its OTC-bilateral derivatives. 
  The Company s OTC-cleared derivatives are effected through central clearing counterparties and its exchange-traded derivatives are effected through regulated exchanges. Such positions are marked to market and margined on a daily basis (both initial margin and variation margin), and the Company has minimal exposure to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to such derivatives. 
  See Note   10   for a description of the impact of credit risk on the valuation of derivatives. 
  The estimated fair values of the Company s net derivative assets and net derivative liabilities after the application of master netting agreements and collateral were as follows at: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    At both   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , derivative assets include income or expense accruals reported in accrued investment income or in other liabilities of   $255 million  . At   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , derivative liabilities include income or expense accruals reported in accrued investment income or in other liabilities of   $60 million   and   $28 million  , respectively. 
              (2) 
    Estimated fair value of derivatives is limited to the amount that is subject to set-off and includes income or expense accruals. 
       253 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  9.  Derivatives (continued) 

            (3) 
    Cash collateral received by the Company for OTC-bilateral and OTC-cleared derivatives is included in cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments or in fixed maturity securities, and the obligation to return it is included in payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions on the balance sheet. In certain instances, cash collateral pledged to the Company as initial margin for OTC-bilateral derivatives is held in separate custodial accounts and is not recorded on the Company s balance sheet because the account title is in the name of the counterparty (but segregated for the benefit of the Company). The amount of this off-balance sheet collateral was   $263 million   and   $0   at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
              (4) 
    The receivable for the return of cash collateral provided by the Company is inclusive of initial margin on exchange-traded and OTC-cleared derivatives and is included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables on the balance sheet. The amount of cash collateral offset in the table above is limited to the net estimated fair value of derivatives after application of netting agreements. At   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , the Company received excess cash collateral of   $87 million   (including   $36 million   off-balance sheet cash collateral held in separate custodial accounts) and   $104 million  , respectively, and provided excess cash collateral of   $192 million   and   $236 million  , respectively, which is not included in the table above due to the foregoing limitation. 
              (5) 
    Securities collateral received by the Company is held in separate custodial accounts and is not recorded on the balance sheet. Subject to certain constraints, the Company is permitted by contract to sell or re-pledge this collateral, but at   December 31, 2014     none   of the collateral had been sold or re-pledged. Securities collateral pledged by the Company is reported in fixed maturity securities on the balance sheet. Subject to certain constraints, the counterparties are permitted by contract to sell or re-pledge this collateral. The amount of securities collateral offset in the table above is limited to the net estimated fair value of derivatives after application of netting agreements and cash collateral. At   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , the Company received excess securities collateral with an estimated fair value of   $395 million   and   $238 million  , respectively, for its OTC-bilateral derivatives, which are not included in the table above due to the foregoing limitation. At   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , the Company provided excess securities collateral with an estimated fair value of   $117 million   and   $66 million  , respectively, for its OTC-bilateral derivatives,   $199 million   and   $141 million  , respectively, for its OTC-cleared derivatives, and   $245 million   and   $81 million  , respectively, for its exchange-traded derivatives, which are not included in the table above due to the foregoing limitation. 
     The Company s collateral arrangements for its OTC-bilateral derivatives generally require the counterparty in a net liability position, after considering the effect of netting agreements, to pledge collateral when the fair value of that counterparty s derivatives reaches a pre-determined threshold. Certain of these arrangements also include credit-contingent provisions that provide for a reduction of these thresholds (on a sliding scale that converges toward zero) in the event of downgrades in the credit ratings of the Company and/or the counterparty. In addition, certain of the Company s netting agreements for derivatives contain provisions that require both the Company and the counterparty to maintain a specific investment grade credit rating from each of Moody s and S P. If a party s credit ratings were to fall below that specific investment grade credit rating, that party would be in violation of these provisions, and the other party to the derivatives could terminate the transactions and demand immediate settlement and payment based on such party s reasonable valuation of the derivatives. 
  The following table presents the estimated fair value of the Company s OTC-bilateral derivatives that are in a net liability position after considering the effect of netting agreements, together with the estimated fair value and balance sheet location of the collateral pledged. The table also presents the incremental collateral that the Company would be required to provide if there was a one notch downgrade in the Company s credit rating at the reporting date or if the Company s credit rating sustained a downgrade to a level that triggered full overnight collateralization or termination of the derivative position at the reporting date. OTC-bilateral derivatives that are not subject to collateral agreements are excluded from this table. 
    254 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  9.  Derivatives (continued) 

______________ 
           (1) 
    After taking into consideration the existence of netting agreements. 
       Embedded Derivatives 
  The Company issues certain products or purchases certain investments that contain embedded derivatives that are required to be separated from their host contracts and accounted for as freestanding derivatives. These host contracts principally include: variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits, including GMWBs, GMABs and certain GMIBs; ceded reinsurance of guaranteed minimum benefits related to certain GMIBs; assumed reinsurance of guaranteed minimum benefits related to GMWBs and GMABs; funding agreements with equity or bond indexed crediting rates; funds withheld on assumed and ceded reinsurance; fixed annuities with equity-indexed returns; and certain debt and equity securities. 
  The following table presents the estimated fair value and balance sheet location of the Company s embedded derivatives that have been separated from their host contracts at: 

December 31, 
        
    Balance Sheet Location 
      
    2014 
      
    2013 

(In millions) 
      Net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts: 

Ceded guaranteed minimum benefits 
    Premiums, reinsurance and other receivables 
      
    $ 
    324 

$ 
    247 
      
      Funds withheld on assumed reinsurance 
    Other invested assets 
      
    53 

38 
      
      Options embedded in debt or equity securities 
    Investments 
      
    (217 
    ) 
      
    (145 
    ) 
      Net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts 
      
    $ 
    160 

$ 
    140 
      
      Net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts: 

Direct guaranteed minimum benefits 
    PABs and Future policy benefits 
      
    $ 
    (1,126 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    (2,296 
    ) 
      Assumed guaranteed minimum benefits 
    PABs 
      
    973 

1,262 
      
      Funds withheld on ceded reinsurance 
    Other liabilities 
      
    83 

60 
      
      Other 
    PABs 
      
    24 

5 
      
      Net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts 
      
    $ 
    (46 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    (969 
    ) 

255 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  9.  Derivatives (continued) 

   The following table presents changes in estimated fair value related to embedded derivatives: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    The valuation of guaranteed minimum benefits includes a nonperformance risk adjustment. The amounts included in net derivative gains (losses), in connection with this adjustment, were   $13 million  ,   ($952) million   and   ($1.7) billion   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
       10. Fair Value 
    When developing estimated fair values, the Company considers three broad valuation techniques: (i) the market approach, (ii) the income approach, and (iii) the cost approach. The Company determines the most appropriate valuation technique to use, given what is being measured and the availability of sufficient inputs, giving priority to observable inputs. The Company categorizes its assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value into a three-level hierarchy, based on the significant input with the lowest level in its valuation. The input levels are as follows:    
                 Level 1 
    Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The Company defines active markets based on average trading volume for equity securities. The size of the bid/ask spread is used as an indicator of market activity for fixed maturity securities. 
   
                Level 2 
    Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly. These inputs can include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other than quoted prices in Level 1, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other significant inputs that are observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. 
   
                Level 3 
    Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and are significant to the determination of estimated fair value of the assets or liabilities. Unobservable inputs reflect the reporting entity s own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. 

Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. The Company s ability to sell securities, or the price ultimately realized for these securities, depends upon the demand and liquidity in the market and increases the use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of certain securities. 
  Considerable judgment is often required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. 
  Recurring Fair Value Measurements 
  The assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their corresponding placement in the fair value hierarchy, including those items for which the Company has elected the FVO, are presented below. 
    256 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

257 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

______________ 
    258 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

(1) 
    Short-term investments as presented in the tables above differ from the amounts presented on the consolidated balance sheets because certain short-term investments are not measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis. 
              (2) 
    Derivative assets are presented within other invested assets on the consolidated balance sheets and derivative liabilities are presented within other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. The amounts are presented gross in the tables above to reflect the presentation on the consolidated balance sheets, but are presented net for purposes of the rollforward in the Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) tables. 
              (3) 
    Net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts are presented primarily within premiums, reinsurance and other receivables on the consolidated balance sheets. Net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts are presented within PABs, future policy benefits and other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. At   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , equity securities also included embedded derivatives of   ($217) million   and   ($145) million  , respectively. 
              (4) 
    Investment performance related to separate account assets is fully offset by corresponding amounts credited to contractholders whose liability is reflected within separate account liabilities. Separate account liabilities are set equal to the estimated fair value of separate account assets. 
              (5) 
    Trading liabilities are presented within other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. 
     The following describes the valuation methodologies used to measure assets and liabilities at fair value. The description includes the valuation techniques and key inputs for each category of assets or liabilities that are classified within Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. 
    Investments 
  Valuation Controls and Procedures 
  On behalf of the Company s Chief Investment Officer and Chief Financial Officer, a pricing and valuation committee that is independent of the trading and investing functions and comprised of senior management, provides oversight of control systems and valuation policies for securities, mortgage loans and derivatives. On a quarterly basis, this committee reviews and approves new transaction types and markets, ensures that observable market prices and market-based parameters are used for valuation, wherever possible, and determines that judgmental valuation adjustments, when applied, are based upon established policies and are applied consistently over time. This committee also provides oversight of the selection of independent third party pricing providers and the controls and procedures to evaluate third party pricing. Periodically, the Chief Accounting Officer reports to the Audit Committee of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors regarding compliance with fair value accounting standards. 
  The Company reviews its valuation methodologies on an ongoing basis and revises those methodologies when necessary based on changing market conditions. Assurance is gained on the overall reasonableness and consistent application of input assumptions, valuation methodologies and compliance with fair value accounting standards through controls designed to ensure valuations represent an exit price. Several controls are utilized, including certain monthly controls, which include, but are not limited to, analysis of portfolio returns to corresponding benchmark returns, comparing a sample of executed prices of securities sold to the fair value estimates, comparing fair value estimates to management s knowledge of the current market, reviewing the bid/ask spreads to assess activity, comparing prices from multiple independent pricing services and ongoing due diligence to confirm that independent pricing services use market-based parameters. The process includes a determination of the observability of inputs used in estimated fair values received from independent pricing services or brokers by assessing whether these inputs can be corroborated by observable market data. The Company ensures that prices received from independent brokers, also referred to herein as  consensus pricing,  represent a reasonable estimate of fair value by considering such pricing relative to the Company s knowledge of the current market dynamics and current pricing for similar financial instruments. While independent non-binding broker quotations are utilized, they are not used for a significant portion of the portfolio. For example, fixed maturity securities priced using independent non-binding broker quotations represent less than   1%   of the total estimated fair value of fixed maturity securities and   12%   of the total estimated fair value of Level 3 fixed maturity securities. 
  The Company also applies a formal process to challenge any prices received from independent pricing services that are not considered representative of estimated fair value. If prices received from independent pricing services are not considered reflective of market activity or representative of estimated fair value, independent non-binding broker quotations are obtained, or an internally developed valuation is prepared. Internally developed valuations of current estimated fair value, which reflect internal estimates of liquidity and nonperformance risks, compared with pricing received from the independent pricing services, did not produce material differences in the estimated fair values for the majority of the portfolio; accordingly, overrides were not material. This is, in part, because internal estimates of liquidity and nonperformance risks are generally based on available market evidence and estimates used by other market participants. In the absence of such market-based evidence, management s best estimate is used. 
    259 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

   Securities, Short-term Investments, Other Investments, Long-term Debt of CSEs   FVO and Trading Liabilities 
  When available, the estimated fair value of these financial instruments is based on quoted prices in active markets that are readily and regularly obtainable. Generally, these are the most liquid of the Company s securities holdings and valuation of these securities does not involve management s judgment. 
  When quoted prices in active markets are not available, the determination of estimated fair value is based on market standard valuation methodologies, giving priority to observable inputs. The significant inputs to the market standard valuation methodologies for certain types of securities with reasonable levels of price transparency are inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data. When observable inputs are not available, the market standard valuation methodologies rely on inputs that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data. These unobservable inputs can be based in large part on management s judgment or estimation and cannot be supported by reference to market activity. Even though these inputs are unobservable, management believes they are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing such securities and are considered appropriate given the circumstances. 
  The estimated fair value of investments in certain separate accounts included in FVO contractholder-directed unit-linked investments, FVO securities held by CSEs, other investments, long-term debt of CSEs   FVO and trading liabilities is determined on a basis consistent with the methodologies described herein for securities. 
  The valuation of most instruments listed below are determined using independent pricing sources, matrix pricing, discounted cash flow methodologies or other similar techniques that use either observable market inputs or unobservable inputs. 
    260 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

                          Instrument 
      
    Level 2 
  Observable Inputs 
    
    Level 3 
  Unobservable Inputs 
    
      Fixed Maturity Securities 
      U.S. corporate and foreign corporate securities 
        
    Valuation Techniques: Principally the market and income approaches. 
    Valuation Techniques: Principally the market approach. 
        
    Key Inputs:  
    Key Inputs:  

quoted prices in markets that are not active 
      
    illiquidity premium 

benchmark yields 
      
    delta spread adjustments to reflect specific credit-related issues 

spreads off benchmark yields 
      
    credit spreads 

new issuances 
      
    quoted prices in markets that are not active for identical or similar securities that are less liquid and based on lower levels of trading activity than securities classified in Level 2 

issuer rating 

duration 

independent non-binding broker quotations 

trades of identical or comparable securities 

Privately-placed securities are valued using the additional key inputs: 

market yield curve 

call provisions 

observable prices and spreads for similar publicly traded or privately traded securities that incorporate the credit quality and industry sector of the issuer 

delta spread adjustments to reflect specific credit-related issues 

Foreign government, U.S. Treasury and agency and state and political subdivision securities 
        
    Valuation Techniques: Principally the market approach.  
    Valuation Techniques: Principally the market approach.  
        
    Key Inputs:  
    Key Inputs:  

quoted prices in markets that are not active 
      
    independent non-binding broker quotations 

benchmark U.S. Treasury yield or other yields 
      
    quoted prices in markets that are not active for identical or similar securities that are less liquid and based on lower levels of trading activity than securities classified in Level 2 

the spread off the U.S. Treasury yield curve for the identical security 

issuer ratings and issuer spreads 
      
    credit spreads 

broker-dealer quotes 

comparable securities that are actively traded 

reported trades of similar securities, including those that are actively traded, and those within the same sub-sector or with a similar maturity or credit rating 

Structured securities comprised of RMBS, CMBS and ABS 
        
    Valuation Techniques: Principally the market and income approaches.  
    Valuation Techniques: Principally the market and income approaches. 
        
    Key Inputs:  
    Key Inputs:  

quoted prices in markets that are not active 
      
    credit spreads 

spreads for actively traded securities 
      
    quoted prices in markets that are not active for identical or similar securities that are less liquid and based on lower levels of trading activity than securities classified in Level 2 

spreads off benchmark yields 

expected prepayment speeds and volumes 
      
    independent non-binding broker quotations 

current and forecasted loss severity 

ratings 

weighted average coupon and weighted average maturity 

average delinquency rates 

geographic region 

debt-service coverage ratios 

issuance-specific information, including, but not limited to: 

collateral type 

payment terms of the underlying assets 

payment priority within the tranche 

structure of the security 

deal performance 

vintage of loans 

261 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

                          Instrument 
    Level 2 
    Level 3 
      Equity Securities 
      Common and non-redeemable preferred stock 
        
    Valuation Techniques: Principally the market approach.  
    Valuation Techniques: Principally the market and income approaches.  
        
    Key Input:  
    Key Inputs:  

quoted prices in markets that are not considered active 
      
    credit ratings 

issuance structures 

quoted prices in markets that are not active for identical or similar securities that are less liquid and based on lower levels of trading activity than securities classified in Level 2 

independent non-binding broker quotations 
      FVO and trading securities, Short-term investments, and Other invested assets 

FVO and trading securities, short-term investments and other investments are of a similar nature and class to the fixed maturity and equity securities described above; accordingly, the valuation techniques and observable inputs used in their valuation are also similar to those described above. 
      
    FVO and trading securities and short-term investments are of a similar nature and class to the fixed maturity and equity securities described above; accordingly, the valuation techniques and unobservable inputs used in their valuation are also similar to those described above. 

Contractholder-directed unit-linked investments reported within FVO and trading securities include mutual fund interests without readily determinable fair values given prices are not published publicly.  Valuation of these mutual funds is based upon quoted prices or reported NAV provided by the fund managers, which were based on observable inputs. 

Mortgage Loans   FVO 
      Commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs   FVO 
        
    Valuation Techniques: Principally the market approach.  
      
    N/A 
        
    Key Input: 

quoted securitization market price of the obligations of the CSEs determined principally by independent pricing services using observable inputs 

Residential mortgage loans   FVO 

N/A 
    Valuation Techniques: Principally the market approach, including matrix pricing or other similar techniques. 

Key Inputs: Inputs that are unobservable or cannot be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data 
      Separate Account Assets (1) 
      Mutual funds and hedge funds without readily determinable fair values as prices are not published publicly 
        
    Key Input: 

quoted prices or reported NAV provided by the fund managers 
      
    N/A 
      Other limited partnership interests 

N/A 
    Valuation Techniques: Valued giving consideration to the underlying holdings of the partnerships and by applying a premium or discount, if appropriate. 

Key Inputs: 

liquidity 

bid/ask spreads 

the performance record of the fund manager 

other relevant variables that may impact the exit value of the particular partnership interest 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Estimated fair value equals carrying value, based on the value of the underlying assets, including: mutual fund interests, fixed maturity securities, equity securities, derivatives, hedge funds, other limited partnership interests, short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents. Fixed maturity securities, equity securities, derivatives, short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents are similar in nature to the instruments described under    Securities, Short-term Investments, Other Investments, Long-term Debt of CSEs   FVO and Trading Liabilities  and    Derivatives   Freestanding Derivatives Valuation Techniques and Key Inputs.  
       262 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

   Derivatives 
  The estimated fair value of derivatives is determined through the use of quoted market prices for exchange-traded derivatives, or through the use of pricing models for OTC-bilateral and OTC-cleared derivatives. The determination of estimated fair value, when quoted market values are not available, is based on market standard valuation methodologies and inputs that management believes are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing such instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, default risk, nonperformance risk, volatility, liquidity and changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models. The valuation controls and procedures for derivatives are described in    Investments.  
  The significant inputs to the pricing models for most OTC-bilateral and OTC-cleared derivatives are inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data. Certain OTC-bilateral and OTC-cleared derivatives may rely on inputs that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data. These unobservable inputs may involve significant management judgment or estimation. Even though unobservable, these inputs are based on assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances and management believes they are consistent with what other market participants would use when pricing such instruments. 
  Most inputs for OTC-bilateral and OTC-cleared derivatives are mid-market inputs but, in certain cases, liquidity adjustments are made when they are deemed more representative of exit value. Market liquidity, as well as the use of different methodologies, assumptions and inputs, may have a material effect on the estimated fair values of the Company s derivatives and could materially affect net income. 
  The credit risk of both the counterparty and the Company are considered in determining the estimated fair value for all OTC-bilateral and OTC-cleared derivatives, and any potential credit adjustment is based on the net exposure by counterparty after taking into account the effects of netting agreements and collateral arrangements. The Company values its OTC-bilateral and OTC-cleared derivatives using standard swap curves which may include a spread to the risk-free rate, depending upon specific collateral arrangements. This credit spread is appropriate for those parties that execute trades at pricing levels consistent with similar collateral arrangements. As the Company and its significant derivative counterparties generally execute trades at such pricing levels and hold sufficient collateral, additional credit risk adjustments are not currently required in the valuation process. The Company s ability to consistently execute at such pricing levels is in part due to the netting agreements and collateral arrangements that are in place with all of its significant derivative counterparties. An evaluation of the requirement to make additional credit risk adjustments is performed by the Company each reporting period. 
  Freestanding Derivatives   Valuation Techniques and Key Inputs 
  Level 2 
  This level includes all types of derivatives utilized by the Company with the exception of exchange-traded derivatives included within Level 1 and those derivatives with unobservable inputs as described in Level 3. 
  Level 3 
  These valuation methodologies generally use the same inputs as described in the corresponding sections for Level 2 measurements of derivatives. However, these derivatives result in Level 3 classification because one or more of the significant inputs are not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data.  
    263 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

   Freestanding derivatives are principally valued using the income approach. Valuations of non-option-based derivatives utilize present value techniques, whereas valuations of option-based derivatives utilize option pricing models. Key inputs are as follows: 
                               Instrument 
      
    Interest Rate 
      
    Foreign Currency 
  Exchange Rate 
      
    Credit 
      
    Equity market 
      Inputs common to Level 2 and Level 3 by instrument type 
      
    swap yield curve 
      
    swap yield curve 
      
    swap yield curve 
      
    swap yield curve 
        
    basis curves 
      
    basis curves 
      
    credit curves 
      
    spot equity index levels 
        
    interest rate volatility (2) 
      
    currency spot rates 
      
    recovery rates 
      
    dividend yield curves 

cross currency basis curves 

equity volatility 

currency volatility (2) 

Level 3 
      
    swap yield curve (1) 
      
    swap yield curve (1) 
      
    swap yield curve (1) 
      
    dividend yield curves (1) 

basis curves (1) 
      
    basis curves (1) 

credit curves (1) 

equity volatility (1) 

interest rate volatility (1), (2) 
      
    cross currency basis curves (1) 

credit spreads  
      
    correlation between model inputs (2) 

currency correlation 
      
    repurchase rates 

currency volatility (2) 

independent non-binding broker quotations 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Extrapolation beyond the observable limits of the curve(s). 
              (2) 
    Option-based only. 
     Embedded Derivatives 
  Embedded derivatives principally include certain direct, assumed and ceded variable annuity guarantees and equity or bond indexed crediting rates within certain funding agreements and annuity contracts. Embedded derivatives are recorded at estimated fair value with changes in estimated fair value reported in net income. 
  The Company issues certain variable annuity products with guaranteed minimum benefits. GMWBs, GMABs and certain GMIBs contain embedded derivatives, which are measured at estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity contract, with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses). These embedded derivatives are classified within PABs and future policy benefits on the consolidated balance sheets. 
  The Company s actuarial department calculates the fair value of these embedded derivatives, which are estimated as the present value of projected future benefits minus the present value of projected future fees using actuarial and capital market assumptions including expectations concerning policyholder behavior. The calculation is based on in-force business, and is performed using standard actuarial valuation software which projects future cash flows from the embedded derivative over multiple risk neutral stochastic scenarios using observable risk-free rates. 
  Capital market assumptions, such as risk-free rates and implied volatilities, are based on market prices for publicly traded instruments to the extent that prices for such instruments are observable. Implied volatilities beyond the observable period are extrapolated based on observable implied volatilities and historical volatilities. Actuarial assumptions, including mortality, lapse, withdrawal and utilization, are unobservable and are reviewed at least annually based on actuarial studies of historical experience. 
  The valuation of these guarantee liabilities includes nonperformance risk adjustments and adjustments for a risk margin related to non-capital market inputs. The nonperformance adjustment is determined by taking into consideration publicly available information relating to spreads in the secondary market for MetLife, Inc. s debt, including related credit default swaps. These observable spreads are then adjusted, as necessary, to reflect the priority of these liabilities and the claims paying ability of the issuing insurance subsidiaries compared to MetLife, Inc. 
  Risk margins are established to capture the non-capital market risks of the instrument which represent the additional compensation a market participant would require to assume the risks related to the uncertainties of such actuarial assumptions as annuitization, premium persistency, partial withdrawal and surrenders. The establishment of risk margins requires the use of significant management judgment, including assumptions of the amount and cost of capital needed to cover the guarantees. These guarantees may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining equity markets. Market conditions including, but not limited to, changes in interest rates, equity indices, market volatility and foreign currency exchange rates; changes in nonperformance risk; and variations in actuarial assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, mortality and risk margins related to non-capital market inputs, may result in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the guarantees that could materially affect net income. 
    264 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

   The Company ceded the risk associated with certain of the GMIBs previously described. These reinsurance agreements contain embedded derivatives which are included within premiums, reinsurance and other receivables on the consolidated balance sheets with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses) or policyholder benefits and claims depending on the statement of operations classification of the direct risk. The value of the embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is determined using a methodology consistent with that described previously for the guarantees directly written by the Company with the exception of the input for nonperformance risk that reflects the credit of the reinsurer. 
  The estimated fair value of the embedded derivatives within funds withheld related to certain ceded reinsurance is determined based on the change in estimated fair value of the underlying assets held by the Company in a reference portfolio backing the funds withheld liability. The estimated fair value of the underlying assets is determined as previously described in    Investments   Securities, Short-term Investments, Other Investments, Long-term Debt of CSEs   FVO and Trading Liabilities.  The estimated fair value of these embedded derivatives is included, along with their funds withheld hosts, in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets with changes in estimated fair value recorded in net derivative gains (losses). Changes in the credit spreads on the underlying assets, interest rates and market volatility may result in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of these embedded derivatives that could materially affect net income. 
  The estimated fair value of the embedded equity and bond indexed derivatives contained in certain funding agreements is determined using market standard swap valuation models and observable market inputs, including a nonperformance risk adjustment. The estimated fair value of these embedded derivatives are included, along with their funding agreements host, within PABs with changes in estimated fair value recorded in net derivative gains (losses). Changes in equity and bond indices, interest rates and the Company s credit standing may result in significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of these embedded derivatives that could materially affect net income. 
  The Company issues certain annuity contracts which allow the policyholder to participate in returns from equity indices. These equity indexed features are embedded derivatives which are measured at estimated fair value separately from the host fixed annuity contract, with changes in estimated fair value reported in net derivative gains (losses). These embedded derivatives are classified within PABs on the consolidated balance sheets. 
  The estimated fair value of the embedded equity indexed derivatives, based on the present value of future equity returns to the policyholder using actuarial and present value assumptions including expectations concerning policyholder behavior, is calculated by the Company s actuarial department. The calculation is based on in-force business and uses standard capital market techniques, such as Black-Scholes, to calculate the value of the portion of the embedded derivative for which the terms are set. The portion of the embedded derivative covering the period beyond where terms are set is calculated as the present value of amounts expected to be spent to provide equity indexed returns in those periods. The valuation of these embedded derivatives also includes the establishment of a risk margin, as well as changes in nonperformance risk. 
  Embedded Derivatives Within Asset and Liability Host Contracts 
  Level 3 Valuation Techniques and Key Inputs: 
  Direct and assumed guaranteed minimum benefits 
  These embedded derivatives are principally valued using the income approach. Valuations are based on option pricing techniques, which utilize significant inputs that may include swap yield curve, currency exchange rates and implied volatilities. These embedded derivatives result in Level 3 classification because one or more of the significant inputs are not observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data. Significant unobservable inputs generally include: the extrapolation beyond observable limits of the swap yield curve and implied volatilities, actuarial assumptions for policyholder behavior and mortality and the potential variability in policyholder behavior and mortality, nonperformance risk and cost of capital for purposes of calculating the risk margin. 
  Reinsurance ceded on certain guaranteed minimum benefits 
  These embedded derivatives are principally valued using the income approach. The valuation techniques and significant market standard unobservable inputs used in their valuation are similar to those described above in    Direct and assumed guaranteed minimum benefits  and also include counterparty credit spreads. 
    265 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

   Transfers between Levels 
  Overall, transfers between levels occur when there are changes in the observability of inputs and market activity. Transfers into or out of any level are assumed to occur at the beginning of the period. 
  Transfers between Levels 1 and 2: 
  For assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value and still held at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , transfers between Levels 1 and 2 were   $160 million   and   $101 million  , respectively. 
  Transfers into or out of Level 3: 
  Assets and liabilities are transferred into Level 3 when a significant input cannot be corroborated with market observable data. This occurs when market activity decreases significantly and underlying inputs cannot be observed, current prices are not available, and/or when there are significant variances in quoted prices, thereby affecting transparency. Assets and liabilities are transferred out of Level 3 when circumstances change such that a significant input can be corroborated with market observable data. This may be due to a significant increase in market activity, a specific event, or one or more significant input(s) becoming observable. 
  Transfers into Level 3 for fixed maturity securities, FVO and trading securities, and separate account assets were due primarily to a lack of trading activity, decreased liquidity and credit ratings downgrades (e.g., from investment grade to below investment grade) which have resulted in decreased transparency of valuations and an increased use of independent non-binding broker quotations and unobservable inputs, such as illiquidity premiums, delta spread adjustments or credit spreads. 
  Transfers out of Level 3 for fixed maturity securities, equity securities, FVO and trading securities and separate account assets resulted primarily from increased transparency of both new issuances that, subsequent to issuance and establishment of trading activity, became priced by independent pricing services and existing issuances that, over time, the Company was able to obtain pricing from, or corroborate pricing received from, independent pricing services with observable inputs (such as observable spreads used in pricing securities) or increases in market activity and upgraded credit ratings. 
    266 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

   Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 
  The following table presents certain quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement, and the sensitivity of the estimated fair value to changes in those inputs, for the more significant asset and liability classes measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) at: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    The weighted average for fixed maturity securities is determined based on the estimated fair value of the securities. 
              (2) 
    The impact of a decrease in input would have the opposite impact on the estimated fair value. For embedded derivatives, changes are based on liability positions. 
              (3) 
    Significant increases (decreases) in expected default rates in isolation would result in substantially lower (higher) valuations. 
              (4) 
    Range and weighted average are presented in basis points. 
              (5) 
    Range and weighted average are presented in accordance with the market convention for fixed maturity securities of dollars per hundred dollars of par. 
              (6) 
    Changes in the assumptions used for the probability of default is accompanied by a directionally similar change in the assumption used for the loss severity and a directionally opposite change in the assumptions used for prepayment rates. 
       267 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

            (7) 
    Ranges represent the rates across different yield curves and are presented in basis points. The swap yield curve is utilized among different types of derivatives to project cash flows, as well as to discount future cash flows to present value. Since this valuation methodology uses a range of inputs across a yield curve to value the derivative, presenting a range is more representative of the unobservable input used in the valuation. 
              (8) 
    Ranges represent the different correlation factors utilized as components within the valuation methodology. Presenting a range of correlation factors is more representative of the unobservable input used in the valuation. Increases (decreases) in correlation in isolation will increase (decrease) the significance of the change in valuations. 
              (9) 
    Represents the risk quoted in basis points of a credit default event on the underlying instrument. Credit derivatives with significant unobservable inputs are primarily comprised of written credit default swaps. 
              (10) 
    At both   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , independent non-binding broker quotations were used in the determination of less than   1%   of the total net derivative estimated fair value. 
              (11) 
    Ranges represent the underlying equity volatility quoted in percentage points. Since this valuation methodology uses a range of inputs across multiple volatility surfaces to value the derivative, presenting a range is more representative of the unobservable input used in the valuation. 
              (12) 
    Changes are based on long U.S. dollar net asset positions and will be inversely impacted for short U.S. dollar net asset positions. 
              (13) 
    Mortality rates vary by age and by demographic characteristics such as gender. Mortality rate assumptions are based on company experience. A mortality improvement assumption is also applied. For any given contract, mortality rates vary throughout the period over which cash flows are projected for purposes of valuing the embedded derivative. 
              (14) 
    Base lapse rates are adjusted at the contract level based on a comparison of the actuarially calculated guaranteed values and the current policyholder account value, as well as other factors, such as the applicability of any surrender charges. A dynamic lapse function reduces the base lapse rate when the guaranteed amount is greater than the account value as in the money contracts are less likely to lapse. Lapse rates are also generally assumed to be lower in periods when a surrender charge applies. For any given contract, lapse rates vary throughout the period over which cash flows are projected for purposes of valuing the embedded derivative. 
              (15) 
    The utilization rate assumption estimates the percentage of contract holders with a GMIB or lifetime withdrawal benefit who will elect to utilize the benefit upon becoming eligible. The rates may vary by the type of guarantee, the amount by which the guaranteed amount is greater than the account value, the contract s withdrawal history and by the age of the policyholder. For any given contract, utilization rates vary throughout the period over which cash flows are projected for purposes of valuing the embedded derivative. 
              (16) 
    The withdrawal rate represents the percentage of account balance that any given policyholder will elect to withdraw from the contract each year. The withdrawal rate assumption varies by age and duration of the contract, and also by other factors such as benefit type. For any given contract, withdrawal rates vary throughout the period over which cash flows are projected for purposes of valuing the embedded derivative. For GMWBs, any increase (decrease) in withdrawal rates results in an increase (decrease) in the estimated fair value of the guarantees. For GMABs and GMIBs, any increase (decrease) in withdrawal rates results in a decrease (increase) in the estimated fair value. 
              (17) 
    Long-term equity volatilities represent equity volatility beyond the period for which observable equity volatilities are available. For any given contract, long-term equity volatility rates vary throughout the period over which cash flows are projected for purposes of valuing the embedded derivative. 
              (18) 
    Nonperformance risk spread varies by duration and by currency. For any given contract, multiple nonperformance risk spreads will apply, depending on the duration of the cash flow being discounted for purposes of valuing the embedded derivative. 
       268 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

   The following is a summary of the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of assets and liabilities classified within Level 3 that are not included in the preceding table. Generally, all other classes of securities classified within Level 3, including those within separate account assets, use the same valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs as previously described for Level 3 securities. This includes matrix pricing and discounted cash flow methodologies, inputs such as quoted prices for identical or similar securities that are less liquid and based on lower levels of trading activity than securities classified in Level 2, as well as independent non-binding broker quotations. The residential mortgage loans   FVO and long-term debt of CSEs   FVO are valued using independent non-binding broker quotations and internal models including matrix pricing and discounted cash flow methodologies using current interest rates. The sensitivity of the estimated fair value to changes in the significant unobservable inputs for these other assets and liabilities is similar in nature to that described in the preceding table. The valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement for the more significant assets measured at estimated fair value on a nonrecurring basis and determined using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) are summarized in    Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements.  
    The following tables summarize the change of all assets and (liabilities) measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3): 

269 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

270 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

271 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

272 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

273 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

274 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

275 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

276 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Amortization of premium/accretion of discount is included within net investment income. Impairments charged to net income (loss) on securities and mortgage loans held-for-sale are included in net investment gains (losses), changes in estimated fair value of mortgage loans -FVO are included in net investment income, and changes in the estimated fair value of mortgage loans held-for-sale and MSRs are included in other revenues. Lapses associated with net embedded derivatives are included in net derivative gains (losses). 
              (2) 
    Interest and dividend accruals, as well as cash interest coupons and dividends received, are excluded from the rollforward. 
              (3) 
    Items purchased/issued and then sold/settled in the same period are excluded from the rollforward. Fees attributed to embedded derivatives are included in settlements. 
              (4) 
    Gains and losses, in net income (loss) and OCI, are calculated assuming transfers into and/or out of Level 3 occurred at the beginning of the period. Items transferred into and then out of Level 3 in the same period are excluded from the rollforward. 
              (5) 
    Changes in unrealized gains (losses) included in net income (loss) relate to assets and liabilities still held at the end of the respective periods. 
              (6) 
    Freestanding derivative assets and liabilities are presented net for purposes of the rollforward. 
              (7) 
    Embedded derivative assets and liabilities are presented net for purposes of the rollforward. 
              (8) 
    Investment performance related to separate account assets is fully offset by corresponding amounts credited to contractholders within separate account liabilities. Therefore, such changes in estimated fair value are not recorded in net income. For the purpose of this disclosure, these changes are presented within net investment gains (losses). 
       277 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

            (9) 
    See Note 3 for a discussion of the MetLife Bank Divestiture. Other revenues related to MSRs represent the changes in estimated fair value due to changes in valuation model inputs or assumptions. 
       Fair Value Option 
  The following table presents information for certain assets and liabilities accounted for under the FVO. These assets and liabilities were initially measured at fair value. 

______________ 
           (1) 
    These assets and liabilities are comprised of commercial mortgage loans and long-term debt. Changes in estimated fair value on these assets and liabilities and gains or losses on sales of these assets are recognized in net investment gains (losses). Interest income on commercial mortgage loans held by CSEs   FVO is recognized in net investment income. Interest expense from long-term debt of CSEs   FVO is recognized in other expenses. 
       
    Nonrecurring Fair Value Measurements 
  The following table presents information for assets measured at estimated fair value on a nonrecurring basis during the periods and still held at the reporting dates (for example, when there is evidence of impairment). The estimated fair values for these assets were determined using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Estimated fair values for impaired mortgage loans are based on independent broker quotations or valuation models using unobservable inputs or, if the loans are in foreclosure or are otherwise determined to be collateral dependent, are based on the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral or the present value of the expected future cash flows. 
       278 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

            (2) 
    For these cost method investments, estimated fair value is determined from information provided in the financial statements of the underlying entities including NAV data. These investments include private equity and debt funds that typically invest primarily in various strategies including domestic and international leveraged buyout funds; power, energy, timber and infrastructure development funds; venture capital funds; and below investment grade debt and mezzanine debt funds. Distributions will be generated from investment gains, from operating income from the underlying investments of the funds and from liquidation of the underlying assets of the funds. It is estimated that the underlying assets of the funds will be liquidated over the next   two   to   10 years  . Unfunded commitments for these investments at both   December 31, 2014   and   2013   were not significant. 
              (3) 
    As discussed in   Note 11  , in 2012, the Company recorded an impairment of goodwill associated with the Retail Annuities reporting unit.  
              (4) 
    As discussed in   Note 5  , in 2012, the Company recorded an impairment of VOCRA, which is included in other assets. 
       Fair Value of Financial Instruments Carried at Other Than Fair Value 
  The following tables provide fair value information for financial instruments that are carried on the balance sheet at amounts other than fair value. These tables exclude the following financial instruments: cash and cash equivalents, accrued investment income, payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions, short-term debt and those short-term investments that are not securities, such as time deposits, and therefore are not included in the three level hierarchy table disclosed in the    Recurring Fair Value Measurements  section. The estimated fair value of the excluded financial instruments, which are primarily classified in Level 2 and, to a lesser extent, in Level 1, approximates carrying value as they are short-term in nature such that the Company believes there is minimal risk of material changes in interest rates or credit quality. All remaining balance sheet amounts excluded from the table below are not considered financial instruments subject to this disclosure. 
  The carrying values and estimated fair values for such financial instruments, and their corresponding placement in the fair value hierarchy, are summarized as follows at: 

279 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

The methods, assumptions and significant valuation techniques and inputs used to estimate the fair value of financial instruments are summarized as follows: 
  Mortgage Loans 
  The estimated fair value of mortgage loans is primarily determined by estimating expected future cash flows and discounting them using current interest rates for similar mortgage loans with similar credit risk, or is determined from pricing for similar loans. 
  Policy Loans 
  Policy loans with fixed interest rates are classified within Level 3. The estimated fair values for these loans are determined using a discounted cash flow model applied to groups of similar policy loans determined by the nature of the underlying insurance liabilities. Cash flow estimates are developed by applying a weighted-average interest rate to the outstanding principal balance of the respective group of policy loans and an estimated average maturity determined through experience studies of the past performance of policyholder repayment behavior for similar loans. These cash flows are discounted using current risk-free interest rates with no adjustment for borrower credit risk as these loans are fully collateralized by the cash surrender value of the underlying insurance policy. Policy loans with variable interest rates are classified within Level 2 and the estimated fair value approximates carrying value due to the absence of borrower credit risk and the short time period between interest rate resets, which presents minimal risk of a material change in estimated fair value due to changes in market interest rates. 
  Real Estate Joint Ventures and Other Limited Partnership Interests 
  The estimated fair values of these cost method investments are generally based on the Company s share of the NAV as provided in the financial statements of the investees. In certain circumstances, management may adjust the NAV by a premium or discount when it has sufficient evidence to support applying such adjustments. 
  Other Invested Assets 
  These other invested assets are principally comprised of various interest-bearing assets held in foreign subsidiaries and certain amounts due under contractual indemnifications. For the various interest-bearing assets held in foreign subsidiaries, the Company evaluates the specific facts and circumstances of each instrument to determine the appropriate estimated fair values. These estimated fair values were not materially different from the recognized carrying values. 
    280 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

   Premiums, Reinsurance and Other Receivables 
  Premiums, reinsurance and other receivables are principally comprised of certain amounts recoverable under reinsurance agreements, amounts on deposit with financial institutions to facilitate daily settlements related to certain derivatives and amounts receivable for securities sold but not yet settled. 
  Amounts recoverable under ceded reinsurance agreements, which the Company has determined do not transfer significant risk such that they are accounted for using the deposit method of accounting, have been classified as Level 3. The valuation is based on discounted cash flow methodologies using significant unobservable inputs. The estimated fair value is determined using interest rates determined to reflect the appropriate credit standing of the assuming counterparty. 
  The amounts on deposit for derivative settlements, classified within Level 2, essentially represent the equivalent of demand deposit balances and amounts due for securities sold are generally received over short periods such that the estimated fair value approximates carrying value. 
  Other Assets 
  These other assets are principally comprised of a receivable for cash paid to an unaffiliated financial institution under the MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charleston ( MRC ) collateral financing arrangement described in   Note 13  . The estimated fair value of the receivable for the cash paid to the unaffiliated financial institution under the MRC collateral financing arrangement is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows using a discount rate that reflects the credit rating of the unaffiliated financial institution. 
  PABs 
  These PABs include investment contracts. Embedded derivatives on investment contracts and certain variable annuity guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives are excluded from this caption in the preceding tables as they are separately presented in    Recurring Fair Value Measurements.  
  The investment contracts primarily include certain funding agreements, fixed deferred annuities, modified guaranteed annuities, fixed term payout annuities and total control accounts. The valuation of these investment contracts is based on discounted cash flow methodologies using significant unobservable inputs. The estimated fair value is determined using current market risk-free interest rates adding a spread to reflect the nonperformance risk in the liability. 
  Long-term Debt, Collateral Financing Arrangements and Junior Subordinated Debt Securities 
  The estimated fair values of long-term debt and junior subordinated debt securities are principally determined using market standard valuation methodologies. Capital leases, which are not required to be disclosed at estimated fair value, are excluded from the preceding tables. 
  Valuations of instruments classified as Level 2 are based primarily on quoted prices in markets that are not active or using matrix pricing that use standard market observable inputs such as quoted prices in markets that are not active and observable yields and spreads in the market. Instruments valued using discounted cash flow methodologies use standard market observable inputs including market yield curve, duration, call provisions, observable prices and spreads for similar publicly traded or privately traded issues. 
  Valuations of instruments classified as Level 3 are based primarily on discounted cash flow methodologies that utilize unobservable discount rates that can vary significantly based upon the specific terms of each individual arrangement. The determination of estimated fair values of collateral financing arrangements incorporates valuations obtained from the counterparties to the arrangements, as part of the collateral management process. 
  Other Liabilities 
  Other liabilities consist primarily of interest and dividends payable, amounts due for securities purchased but not yet settled, funds withheld amounts payable, which are contractually withheld by the Company in accordance with the terms of the reinsurance agreements, and amounts payable under certain assumed reinsurance agreements, which are recorded using the deposit method of accounting. The Company evaluates the specific terms, facts and circumstances of each instrument to determine the appropriate estimated fair values, which are not materially different from the carrying values, with the exception of certain deposit type reinsurance payables. For such payables, the estimated fair value is determined as the present value of expected future cash flows, which are discounted using an interest rate determined to reflect the appropriate credit standing of the assuming counterparty. 
    281 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  10. Fair Value (continued) 

   Separate Account Liabilities 
  Separate account liabilities represent those balances due to policyholders under contracts that are classified as investment contracts. 
  Separate account liabilities classified as investment contracts primarily represent variable annuities with no significant mortality risk to the Company such that the death benefit is equal to the account balance, funding agreements related to group life contracts and certain contracts that provide for benefit funding. 
  Since separate account liabilities are fully funded by cash flows from the separate account assets which are recognized at estimated fair value as described in the section    Recurring Fair Value Measurements,  the value of those assets approximates the estimated fair value of the related separate account liabilities. The valuation techniques and inputs for separate account liabilities are similar to those described for separate account assets. 
    11. Goodwill 
    Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test. The goodwill impairment process requires a comparison of the estimated fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value. The Company tests goodwill for impairment by either performing a qualitative assessment or a two-step quantitative test. The qualitative assessment is an assessment of historical information and relevant events and circumstances to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. The Company may elect not to perform the qualitative assessment for some or all of its reporting units and perform a two-step quantitative impairment test. In performing the two-step quantitative impairment test, the Company may use a market multiple valuation approach and a discounted cash flow valuation approach. For reporting units which are particularly sensitive to market assumptions, the Company may use additional valuation methodologies to estimate the reporting units  fair values. 
  The market multiple valuation approach utilizes market multiples of companies with similar businesses and the projected operating earnings of the reporting unit. The discounted cash flow valuation approach requires judgments about revenues, operating earnings projections, capital market assumptions and discount rates. The key inputs, judgments and assumptions necessary in determining estimated fair value of the reporting units include projected operating earnings, current book value, the level of economic capital required to support the mix of business, long-term growth rates, comparative market multiples, the account value of in-force business, projections of new and renewal business, as well as margins on such business, the level of interest rates, credit spreads, equity market levels, and the discount rate that the Company believes is appropriate for the respective reporting unit. 
  When testing goodwill for impairment, the Company also considers its market capitalization in relation to the aggregate estimated fair value of its reporting units. The Company applies significant judgment when determining the estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units and when assessing the relationship of market capitalization to the aggregate estimated fair value of its reporting units. 
  The valuation methodologies utilized are subject to key judgments and assumptions that are sensitive to change. Estimates of fair value are inherently uncertain and represent only management s reasonable expectation regarding future developments. These estimates and the judgments and assumptions upon which the estimates are based will, in all likelihood, differ in some respects from actual future results. Declines in the estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units could result in goodwill impairments in future periods which could materially adversely affect the Company s results of operations or financial position. 
  For the 2014 annual goodwill impairment tests, the Company utilized the qualitative assessment for five of its six reporting units and determined it was not more than likely that the fair value of any of the reporting units tested using the qualitative assessment was less than its carrying amount, and, therefore no further testing was needed for these reporting units. For the sixth reporting unit (EMEA), the Company prepared a quantitative impairment test, using both the market multiple and discounted cash flow valuation approaches. The Company determined that the fair value of this reporting unit was in excess of its carrying value and, therefore goodwill was not impaired.  
  As discussed in Note 2, effective January 1, 2015, the Company implemented certain segment reporting changes, which were approved by the chief operating decision maker in the fourth quarter of 2014. As a result, goodwill was re-tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of 2014 using estimated revised carrying amounts of the reporting units. The Company concluded that the fair values of all reporting units were in excess of their carrying value and, therefore, goodwill was not impaired. 
    282 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  11.  Goodwill (continued) 

Information regarding goodwill by segment, as well as Corporate   Other, was as follows: 
   
 ______________ 
            (2) 
    For purposes of goodwill impairment testing in 2014, the balance of   $229 million  , of net goodwill in Corporate   Other at December 31, 2013 did not change. This balance resulted from goodwill acquired as part of the 2005 Travelers acquisition and was allocated to business units of the Retail; Group, Voluntary   Worksite Benefits; and Corporate Benefit Funding segments in the amounts of   $34 million  ,   $9 million   and   $186 million  , respectively.  
              (3) 
    In connection with the Company s annual goodwill impairment testing in 2012, the market multiple and discounted cash flow valuation approaches indicated that the fair value of the Retail Annuities reporting unit was below its carrying value. As a result, an actuarial appraisal, which estimates the net worth of the reporting unit, the value of existing business and the value of new business, was performed. This appraisal resulted in a fair value of the Retail Annuities reporting unit that was less than the carrying value, indicating a potential for goodwill impairment. A further comparison of the implied fair value of its goodwill with the reporting unit s carrying amount indicated that the entire amount of goodwill associated with the Retail Annuities reporting unit was impaired. Therefore, the Company recorded a non-cash charge of   $1.9 billion   (  $1.6 billion  , net of income tax) for the impairment of the entire goodwill balance in the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2012. Of this amount,   $1.4 billion   was impaired at MetLife, Inc. There was no impact on income taxes. 
       283 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  11.  Goodwill (continued) 

            (4) 
    See   Note 3   for a discussion of the acquisition of ProVida, which is included in the Latin America segment. 
              (5) 
    In connection with the MetLife Bank Divestiture, goodwill and the related accumulated impairment were reduced by   $65 million   for the year ended December 31,   2013  . See   Note 3  . 
              (6) 
    In connection with the sale of MAL, goodwill in the Corporate Benefit Funding reporting unit was reduced by   $60 million   during the year ended December 31, 2014. See Note 3. This goodwill was allocated to MAL based on the relative fair values of MAL and the remaining portion of the Corporate Benefit Funding reporting unit. 
       12. Long-term and Short-term Debt 
    Long-term and short-term debt outstanding was as follows: 
   
 ______________ 
           (1) 
    Range of interest rates and weighted average interest rates are for the year ended December 31,   2014  . 
      The aggregate maturities of long-term debt at December 31,   2014   for the next five years and thereafter are   $1.2 billion   in 2015,   $1.3 billion   in 2016,   $1.0 billion   in 2017,   $1.0 billion   in 2018,   $1.0 billion   in 2019 and   $10.6 billion   thereafter. 
  Capital lease obligations are collateralized and rank highest in priority, followed by unsecured senior debt which consists of senior notes and other notes, followed by subordinated debt which consists of junior subordinated debt securities (see Note   14  ). Payments of interest and principal on the Company s surplus notes, which are subordinate to all other obligations at the operating company level and are senior to obligations at MetLife, Inc., may be made only with the prior approval of the insurance department of the state of domicile. Collateral financing arrangements (see Note   13  ) are supported by either surplus notes of subsidiaries or financing arrangements with MetLife, Inc. and, accordingly, have priority consistent with other such obligations. 
  Certain of the Company s debt instruments and committed facilities, as well as its credit facility, contain various administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. The Company believes it was in compliance with all such covenants at December 31,   2014  . 
  Senior Notes   Senior Debt Securities Underlying Common Equity Units 
  In November 2010, in connection with the financing of the acquisition of American Life Insurance Company ( American Life ) and Delaware American Life Insurance Company ( DelAm ), (collectively  ALICO ), MetLife, Inc. issued to ALICO Holdings LLC (now AM Holdings LLC ( AM Holdings ))   $3.0 billion   (estimated fair value of   $3.0 billion  ) of three series of debt securities (the  Series C Debt Securities,  the  Series D Debt Securities,  and the  Series E Debt Securities,  collectively, the  Debt Securities ), which constituted a part of the common equity units more fully described in Note   15  . 
  In October 2014, September 2013 and October 2012, MetLife, Inc. closed the successful remarketing of senior debt securities underlying the common equity units. The Series E Debt Securities were remarketed in September and October 2014 as   1.903%   Series E senior debt securities Tranche 1 due   December 2017   and   4.721%   Series E senior debt securities Tranche 2 due   December 2044  . The Series D Debt Securities were remarketed in September 2013 as   4.368%   senior debt securities due   September 2023  . The Series C Debt Securities were remarketed in October 2012 as   1.756%   Series C senior debt securities Tranche 1 due   December 2017   and   3.048%   Series C senior debt securities Tranche 2 due   December 2022  . MetLife, Inc. did not receive any proceeds from the remarketings. 
    284 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  12.  Long-term and Short-term Debt (continued) 

   Senior Notes   Other Issuances and Repayment 
  In May 2014, MetLife, Inc. redeemed   $200 million   aggregate principal amount of its   5.875%   senior notes due   November 2033   at par.  
  In April 2014, MetLife, Inc. issued   $1.0 billion   of senior notes due   April 2024   which bear interest at a fixed rate of   3.60%  , payable semi-annually. In connection with the issuance, MetLife, Inc. incurred   $5 million   of related costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the senior notes. 
   In November 2013, MetLife, Inc. issued   $1.0 billion   of senior notes due in   November 2043  . The senior notes bear interest at a fixed rate of   4.875%  , payable semi-annually. In connection with the issuance, MetLife, Inc. incurred   $10 million   of costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the senior notes. 
  In August 2012, MetLife, Inc. issued   $750 million   of senior notes due in   August 2042  . The senior notes bear interest at a fixed rate of   4.125%  , payable semi-annually. In connection with the issuance, MetLife, Inc. incurred   $7 million   of related costs which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the senior notes. 
  Advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York 
  MetLife Bank was a member of the FHLB of NY and, in connection with such membership, entered into advances agreements with the FHLB of NY under which MetLife Bank received cash advances. In January 2012, MetLife Bank discontinued taking advances from the FHLB of NY. In April 2012, MetLife Bank transferred cash to MLIC related to   $3.8 billion   of outstanding advances which had been included in long-term debt, and MLIC assumed the associated obligations under terms similar to those of the transferred advances by issuing funding agreements for which the liability was included in PABs. During the year ended December 31,   2012  , MetLife Bank made repayments totaling   $374 million   related to long-term borrowings under the advances agreements. There was   no   long-term debt or short-term debt liability for advances at December 31,   2014   or 2013. 
  Short-term Debt 
  Short-term debt with maturities of one year or less was as follows: 

During the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , the weighted average interest rate on short-term debt was   0.10%  ,   0.12%   and   0.17%  , respectively. 
  Interest Expense 
  Interest expense related to long-term and short-term debt included in other expenses was   $874 million  ,   $854 million   and   $871 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. Such amounts do not include interest expense on long-term debt related to CSEs   FVO, collateral financing arrangements, junior subordinated debt securities, or common equity units. See Notes   8  ,   13   and   14  . 
  Credit and Committed Facilities 
  At December 31,   2014  , the Company maintained a   $4.0 billion   unsecured credit facility and certain committed facilities aggregating   $12.2 billion  . When drawn upon, these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance with the respective agreements. 
    285 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  12.  Long-term and Short-term Debt (continued) 

   Credit Facilities 
  Unsecured credit facilities are used for general corporate purposes, to support the borrowers  commercial paper programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. Total fees expensed associated with these credit facilities were   $12 million  ,   $24 million   and   $30 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, and was included in other expenses. Information on the credit facility at December 31,   2014   was as follows: 

In May 2014, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding, Inc. entered into a   $4.0 billion   five-year unsecured credit agreement, which amended and restated both the five-year   $3.0 billion   and the five-year   $1.0 billion   unsecured credit agreements in their entireties into a single agreement (the  2014 Five-Year Credit Agreement ). The credit facility made available by the 2014 Five-Year Credit Agreement may be used for general corporate purposes (including in the case of loans, to back up commercial paper and, in the case of letters of credit, to support variable annuity policy and reinsurance reserve requirements). All borrowings under the 2014 Five-Year Credit Agreement must be repaid by   May 30, 2019  , except that letters of credit outstanding on that date may remain outstanding until no later than May 30, 2020. MetLife, Inc. incurred costs of   $6 million   related to the 2014 Five-Year Credit Agreement, which were capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized over the remaining term of the 2014 Five-Year Credit Agreement. 
  Committed Facilities 
  The committed facilities are used for collateral for certain of the Company s affiliated reinsurance liabilities. Total fees expensed associated with these committed facilities were   $95 million  ,   $103 million   and   $96 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, and are included in other expenses. Information on these committed facilities at December 31,   2014   was as follows: 
   
 ______________ 
             (3) 
    MetLife, Inc. is a guarantor under this agreement. 
               (5) 
    The drawdown on this facility is associated with a collateral financing arrangement described more fully in Note   13  . 
       286 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  12.  Long-term and Short-term Debt (continued) 

             (7) 
    Commencing in April 2028 and extending through September 2038, the capacity will grade down from   $4.3 billion   to   $3.1 billion  . MetLife, Inc. is a guarantor of certain letters of credit issued as of   December 31, 2014   under this agreement. 
       13. Collateral Financing Arrangements 
    Associated with the Closed Block 
  Information related to the collateral financing arrangement associated with the closed block was as follows at:   

  ______________ 
           (1) 
    Carrying value. 
              (2) 
    Estimated fair value. 
     Interest expense on the collateral financing arrangement was   $19 million  ,   $20 million   and   $26 million   for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, which is included in other expenses. 
  In December 2007, MLIC reinsured a portion of its closed block liabilities to MRC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc. In connection with this transaction, MRC issued, to investors placed by an unaffiliated financial institution,   $2.5 billion   in aggregate principal amount of   35  -year surplus notes to provide statutory reserve support for the assumed closed block liabilities. Interest on the surplus notes accrues at an annual rate of three-month LIBOR plus   0.55%  , payable quarterly. The ability of MRC to make interest and principal payments on the surplus notes is contingent upon South Carolina regulatory approval. 
  Simultaneously with the issuance of the surplus notes, MetLife, Inc. entered into an agreement with the unaffiliated financial institution, under which MetLife, Inc. is entitled to the interest paid by MRC on the surplus notes of three-month LIBOR plus   0.55%   in exchange for the payment of three-month LIBOR plus   1.12%  , payable quarterly on such amount as adjusted, as described below. MetLife, Inc. may also be required to pledge collateral or make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. Any such payments are accounted for as a receivable and included in other assets on the Company s consolidated balance sheets and do not reduce the principal amount outstanding of the surplus notes. Such payments, however, reduce the amount of interest payments due from MetLife, Inc. under the agreement. Any payment received from the unaffiliated financial institution reduces the receivable by an amount equal to such payment and also increases the amount of interest payments due from MetLife, Inc. under the agreement. In addition, the unaffiliated financial institution may be required to pledge collateral to MetLife, Inc. related to any increase in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. MetLife, Inc. may also be required to make a payment to the unaffiliated financial institution in connection with any early termination of this agreement. 
  In June 2012, following regulatory approval, MRC repurchased and canceled   $451 million   in aggregate principal amount of the surplus notes. Cumulatively, since December 2007, MRC repurchased and canceled   $1.1 billion   in aggregate principal amount of the surplus notes. Payments made by the Company in June 2012 associated with the partial repurchase, which also included payments made to the unaffiliated financial institution, totaled   $451 million  , exclusive of accrued interest on the surplus notes. In connection with the partial repurchase, the amount of the receivable from the unaffiliated financial institution decreased   $59 million  . No other payments were made by MetLife, Inc. or received from the unaffiliated financial institution during   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , related to an increase or decrease in the estimated fair value of the surplus notes. 
    287 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  13.  Collateral Financing Arrangements (continued) 

   A majority of the proceeds from the offering of the surplus notes was placed in a trust, which is consolidated by the Company, to support MRC s statutory obligations associated with the assumed closed block liabilities. During the year ended December 31,   2014  , MRC transferred   $467 million   out of the trust to its general account. No such transfers were made during the years ended December 31,   2013   and   2012  . The assets are principally invested in fixed maturity securities and are presented as such within the Company s consolidated balance sheets, with the related income included within net investment income in the Company s consolidated statements of operations. 
  Associated with Secondary Guarantees 
  Information related to the collateral financing arrangements associated with secondary guarantees was as follows at:   

  ______________ 
           (1) 
    Carrying value. 
              (2) 
    Estimated fair value. 
     Interest expense on the collateral financing arrangement was   $27 million  ,   $28 million   and   $33 million   for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, which is included in other expenses. 
  In May 2007, MetLife, Inc. and MRSC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc., entered into a   30  -year collateral financing arrangement with an unaffiliated financial institution that provides up to   $3.5 billion   of statutory reserve support for MRSC associated with reinsurance obligations under intercompany reinsurance agreements. Such statutory reserves are associated with ULSG and are required under U.S. Valuation of Life Policies Model Regulation (commonly referred to as Regulation A-XXX). Proceeds from the collateral financing arrangement were placed in trusts to support MRSC s statutory obligations associated with the reinsurance of secondary guarantees. The trusts are VIEs which are consolidated by the Company. The unaffiliated financial institution is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio held by the trusts. The assets are principally invested in fixed maturity securities and are presented as such within the Company s balance sheets, with the related income included within net investment income in the Company s statements of operations. The collateral financing arrangement may be extended by agreement of MetLife, Inc. and the unaffiliated financial institution on each anniversary of the closing. 
  In connection with the collateral financing arrangement, MetLife, Inc. entered into an agreement with the same unaffiliated financial institution under which MetLife, Inc. is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio held by the trusts established in connection with this collateral financing arrangement in exchange for the payment of a stated rate of return to the unaffiliated financial institution of three-month LIBOR plus   0.70%  , payable quarterly. MetLife, Inc. may also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial institution, for deposit into the trusts, related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the assets held by the trusts, as well as amounts outstanding upon maturity or early termination of the collateral financing arrangement. During   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  ,   no   payments were made or received by MetLife, Inc. Cumulatively, since May 2007, MetLife, Inc. has contributed a total of   $680 million   as a result of declines in the estimated fair value of the assets in the trusts, all of which was deposited into the trusts. 
  In addition, MetLife, Inc. may be required to pledge collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution under this agreement. At both December 31,   2014   and   2013  , MetLife, Inc. had pledged   no   collateral under this agreement. 
    288 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 

   14. Junior Subordinated Debt Securities 
    Outstanding Junior Subordinated Debt Securities 
  Outstanding junior subordinated debt securities, and exchangeable surplus trust securities which MetLife, Inc. will exchange for junior subordinated debt securities prior to redemption or repayment, were as follows: 
   
 ______________ 
           (1) 
    MetLife Capital Trust X and MetLife Capital Trust IV are VIEs which are consolidated in the financial statements of the Company. The securities issued by these entities are exchangeable surplus trust securities, which will be exchanged for a like amount of MetLife, Inc. s junior subordinated debt securities on the scheduled redemption date; mandatorily under certain circumstances, and at any time upon MetLife, Inc. exercising its option to redeem the securities. 
              (2) 
    Prior to the scheduled redemption date, interest is payable semiannually in arrears. 
              (3) 
    In the event the securities are not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue after such date at an annual rate of three-month LIBOR plus the indicated margin, payable quarterly in arrears. 
     In connection with each of the securities described above, MetLife, Inc. may redeem or may cause the redemption of the securities (i) in whole or in part, at any time on or after the date five years prior to the scheduled redemption date at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or in part, prior to the date five years prior to the scheduled redemption date at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of redemption or, if greater, a make-whole price. MetLife, Inc. also has the right to, and in certain circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the securities for a period up to   10 years  . Interest compounds during such periods of deferral. If interest is deferred for more than five consecutive years, MetLife, Inc. is required to use proceeds from the sale of its common stock or warrants on common stock to satisfy this interest payment obligation. In connection with each of the securities described above, MetLife, Inc. entered into a separate replacement capital covenant ( RCC ). As part of each RCC, MetLife, Inc. agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the securities on or before a date 10 years prior to the final maturity date of each issuance, unless, subject to certain limitations, it has received cash proceeds during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities. Each RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of certain events, including an acceleration of the applicable securities due to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCCs are not intended for the benefit of holders of the securities and may not be enforced by them. Rather, each RCC is for the benefit of the holders of a designated series of MetLife, Inc. s other indebtedness (the  Covered Debt ). Initially, the Covered Debt for each of the securities described above was MetLife, Inc. s   5.70%   senior notes due   2035   (the  Senior Notes ). As a result of the issuance of MetLife, Inc. s   10.750%   Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due   2069   (the  10.750% JSDs ), the 10.750% JSDs became the Covered Debt with respect to, and in accordance with, the terms of the RCC relating to MetLife, Inc. s   6.40%   Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures due   2066  . The Senior Notes continue to be the Covered Debt with respect to, and in accordance with, the terms of the RCCs relating to each of MetLife Capital Trust IV s   7.875%   Fixed-to-Floating Rate Exchangeable Surplus Trust Securities, MetLife Capital Trust X s   9.250%   Fixed-to-Floating Rate Exchangeable Surplus Trust Securities and the 10.750% JSDs. MetLife, Inc. also entered into a replacement capital obligation which will commence during the six month period prior to the scheduled redemption date of each of the securities described above and under which MetLife, Inc. must use reasonable commercial efforts to raise replacement capital to permit repayment of the securities through the issuance of certain qualifying capital securities. 
  Interest expense on outstanding junior subordinated debt securities was   $258 million   for each of the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , which is included in other expenses. 
    289 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 

   15. Common Equity Units 
    Acquisition of ALICO 
  In connection with the financing of the acquisition of ALICO in   November 2010  , MetLife, Inc. issued to AM Holdings   40.0 million   common equity units with an aggregate stated amount at issuance of   $3.0 billion   and an estimated fair value of   $3.2 billion  . Each common equity unit had an initial stated amount of   $75   per unit and initially consisted of: (i) three purchase contracts (the  Series C Purchase Contracts,  the  Series D Purchase Contracts  and the  Series E Purchase Contracts  and, together, the  Purchase Contracts ), obligating the holder to purchase, on a subsequent settlement date, a variable number of shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock, par value   $0.01   per share, for a purchase price of   $25   (  $75   in the aggregate); and (ii) a 1/40 undivided beneficial ownership interest in each of three series of Debt Securities issued by MetLife, Inc., each series of Debt Securities having an aggregate principal amount of   $1.0 billion  . Distributions on the common equity units were made quarterly, and consisted of contract payments on the Purchase Contracts and interest payments on the Debt Securities, at an aggregate annual rate of   5.00%   of the stated amount at any time. The excess of the estimated fair value of the common equity units over the estimated fair value of the Debt Securities (see Note   12  ), after accounting for the present value of future contract payments recorded in other liabilities, resulted in a net decrease to additional paid-in capital of   $69 million  , representing the fair value of the Purchase Contracts discussed below. On March 8, 2011, AM Holdings sold, in a public offering, all the common equity units it received as consideration from MetLife in connection with the acquisition of ALICO. 
  Purchase Contracts 
  Settlement of the Purchase Contracts of each series occurred upon the successful remarketing of the related series of Debt Securities. On each settlement date subsequent to a successful remarketing, the holder paid   $25   per common equity unit and MetLife, Inc. issued to such holder a variable number of shares of its common stock in settlement of the applicable Purchase Contract. The number of shares issued depended on the average of the daily volume-weighted average prices of MetLife, Inc. s common stock during the   20   trading day periods ending on, and including, the third day prior to the initial scheduled settlement date for each series of Purchase Contracts. All Purchase Contracts have been settled as described in    Remarketing of Senior Debt Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts.   
  Distributions on the Purchase Contracts were made quarterly at an average annual rate of   3.02%  . The value of all Purchase Contracts at issuance of   $247 million   was calculated as the present value of the future contract payments and was recorded in other liabilities with an offsetting decrease in additional paid-in capital. The other liabilities balance was reduced as contract payments were made. Contract payments of   $21 million  ,   $48 million   and   $84 million   were made for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
  Debt Securities 
  The Debt Securities are senior, unsecured notes of MetLife, Inc. which, in the aggregate, pay quarterly distributions and are included in long-term debt (see Note   12   for further discussion of terms). Each series of the Debt Securities was remarketed and sold on behalf of participating holders to investors. The proceeds of a remarketing, net of any related fees, were applied on behalf of participating holders who so elected to settle any obligation of the holder to pay cash under the related Purchase Contract on the applicable settlement dates. All Purchase Contracts have been settled as described in    Remarketing of Senior Debt Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts.   
  Remarketing of Senior Debt Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts 
  In October 2014, September 2013 and October 2012, MetLife, Inc. closed the successful remarketings of senior debt securities underlying the common equity units. The Series E Debt Securities were remarketed in September and October 2014 as   1.903%   Series E senior debt securities Tranche 1 due   December 2017   and   4.721%   Series E senior debt securities Tranche 2 due   December 2044  . The Series D Debt Securities were remarketed in September 2013 as   4.368%   senior debt securities and are due   September 2023  . The Series C Debt Securities were remarketed as   1.756%   Series C senior debt securities Tranche 1 due   December 2017   and   3.048%   Series C senior debt securities Tranche 2 due   December 2022  . MetLife, Inc. did   no  t receive any proceeds from the remarketings. Most holders of common equity units used the remarketing proceeds to settle their payment obligations under the applicable stock purchase contracts. The subsequent settlement of the stock purchase contracts provided proceeds to MetLife, Inc. of   $1.0 billion   in each of October 2014, September 2013 and October 2012 in exchange for shares of MetLife, Inc. s common stock. In October 2014, September 2013 and October 2012, MetLife, Inc. delivered   22,907,960   shares,   22,679,955   shares and   28,231,956   shares, respectively, of its newly issued common stock to settle the stock purchase contracts. 
    290 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 

   16. Equity 
    Preferred Stock 
  MetLife, Inc. has outstanding   24 million   shares of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the  Series A preferred shares ) with a   $0.01   par value per share, and a liquidation preference of   $25   per share. 
  MetLife, Inc. has outstanding   60 million   shares of   6.50%   Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B (the  Series B preferred shares ), with a   $0.01   par value per share, and a liquidation preference of   $25   per share. 
  The preferred stock ranks senior to the common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. Dividends on the preferred stock are not cumulative. Holders of the preferred stock will be entitled to receive dividend payments only when, as and if declared by MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board. If dividends are declared on the Series A preferred shares, they will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual rate of the greater of:   (i) 1.00% above three-month LIBOR on the related LIBOR determination date; or (ii) 4.00%.   Any dividends declared on the Series B preferred shares will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual fixed rate of   6.50%  . Accordingly, in the event that dividends are not declared on the preferred stock for payment on any dividend payment date, then those dividends will cease to accrue and be payable. If a dividend is not declared before the dividend payment date, MetLife, Inc. has no obligation to pay dividends accrued for that dividend period whether or not dividends are declared and paid in future periods. No dividends may, however, be paid or declared on MetLife, Inc. s common stock   or any other securities ranking junior to the preferred stock   unless the full dividends for the latest completed dividend period on all preferred stock, and any parity stock, have been declared and paid or provided for. 
  MetLife, Inc. is prohibited from declaring dividends on the preferred stock if it fails to meet specified capital adequacy, net income and equity levels. See    Dividend Restrictions.  
  The preferred stock does not have voting rights except in certain circumstances where the dividends have not been paid for an equivalent of six or more dividend payment periods whether or not those periods are consecutive. Under such circumstances, the holders of the preferred stock have certain voting rights with respect to members of the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. 
  The preferred stock is not subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund, retirement fund, purchase fund or similar provisions. The preferred stock is redeemable at MetLife, Inc. s option in whole or in part, at a redemption price of   $25   per share of preferred stock, plus declared and unpaid dividends. 
  In December 2008, MetLife, Inc. entered into an RCC related to the preferred stock. As part of such RCC, MetLife, Inc. agreed that it will not repay, redeem or purchase the preferred shares on or before December 31, 2018, unless, subject to certain limitations, it has received proceeds during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities. The RCC is for the benefit of the holders of the related Covered Debt, which was initially the Senior Notes. As a result of the issuance of the   10.750%   JSDs, the   10.750%   JSDs became the Covered Debt with respect to, and in accordance with, the terms of the RCC relating to the preferred shares. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of certain events, including the date on which MetLife, Inc. has no series of outstanding eligible debt securities. 
    291 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  16.  Equity (continued) 

   Information on the declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the Series A and Series B preferred shares was as follows: 

See Note   23   for information on subsequent dividends declared. 
  Common Stock 
  Issuances 
  In October 2014, September 2013 and October 2012, MetLife, Inc. issued   22,907,960   new shares,   22,679,955   new shares and   28,231,956   new shares, respectively, of its common stock, each for   $1.0 billion  . The issuances were made in connection with the settlement of the Series E Purchase Contracts, the Series D Purchase Contracts, and the Series C Purchase Contracts, respectively. See Note   15  . 
  During the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  ,   5,866,160   new shares,   7,663,446   new shares and   5,497,752   new shares of common stock were issued for   $220 million  ,   $250 million   and   $171 million  , respectively, in connection with stock option exercises and other stock-based awards. There were   no   shares of common stock issued from treasury stock during any of the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  . 
  Repurchase Authorizations 
  In December 2014, MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors authorized an additional   $1.0 billion   of common stock repurchases, which began in January 2015, after the completion of repurchases under the prior authorizations. During the year ended December 31,   2014  ,   18,876,363   shares were repurchased under these repurchase authorizations for   $1.0 billion  .   No   shares of common stock were repurchased during the years ended December 31,   2013   and   2012  . At December 31,   2014  , MetLife, Inc. had   $1.3 billion   remaining under its common stock repurchase authorizations. 
  See Note 23 for information on subsequent common stock repurchases. 
  Under these authorizations, MetLife, Inc. may purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market, including pursuant to the terms of transactions meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act ), and in privately negotiated transactions. Future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several factors, including the Company s capital position, liquidity, financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions, the market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock compared to management s assessment of the stock s underlying value and applicable regulatory approvals, as well as other legal and accounting factors. 
    292 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  16.  Equity (continued) 

   Dividends 
  The table below presents declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for common stock: 

See Note   23   for information on subsequent dividends declared. 
  The funding of the cash dividends and operating expenses of MetLife, Inc. is primarily provided by cash dividends from MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries. The statutory capital and surplus, or net assets, of MetLife, Inc. s insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions except to the extent that dividends are allowed to be paid in a given year without prior regulatory approval. Dividends exceeding these limitations can generally be made subject to regulatory approval. The nature and amount of these dividend restrictions, as well as the statutory capital and surplus of MetLife, Inc. s U.S. insurance subsidiaries, are disclosed in    Statutory Equity and Income  and    Dividend Restrictions   Insurance Operations.  MetLife, Inc. s principal non-U.S. insurance operations are branches or subsidiaries of American Life, a U.S. insurance subsidiary of the Company. In addition, the payment of dividends by MetLife, Inc. to its shareholders is also subject to restrictions. See    Dividend Restrictions   MetLife, Inc.  
    293 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  16.  Equity (continued) 

   Stock-Based Compensation Plans 
  Description of Plans for Employees and Agents   General Terms 
  The MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the  2000 Stock Plan ) authorized the granting of awards to employees and agents in the form of options ( Stock Options ) to buy shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock ( Shares ) that either qualify as incentive Stock Options under Section 422A of the Code or are non-qualified. By December 31, 2009, all awards under the 2000 Stock Plan had either vested or been forfeited.   No   awards have been made under the 2000 Stock Plan since 2005. 
  Under the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  2005 Stock Plan ), awards granted to employees and agents may be in the form of Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares or Performance Share Units, Cash-Based Awards and Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the 2005 Stock Plan with reference to Shares). 
  The aggregate number of shares authorized for issuance under the 2005 Stock Plan is   68,000,000  , plus those shares available but not utilized under the 2000 Stock Plan and those shares utilized under the 2000 Stock Plan that are recovered due to forfeiture of Stock Options. Each share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in connection with a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right reduces the number of Shares remaining for issuance under that plan by   one  , and each Share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in connection with awards other than Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights reduces the number of Shares remaining for issuance under that plan by   1.179   Shares. At December 31,   2014  , the aggregate number of Shares remaining available for issuance pursuant to the 2005 Stock Plan was   18,023,959  . Stock Option exercises and other awards settled in Shares are satisfied through the issuance of Shares held in treasury by the Company or by the issuance of new Shares. 
  Compensation expense related to awards under the 2005 Stock Plan is recognized based on the number of awards expected to vest, which represents the awards granted less expected forfeitures over the life of the award, as estimated at the date of grant. Unless a material deviation from the assumed forfeiture rate is observed during the term in which the awards are expensed, any adjustment necessary to reflect differences in actual experience is recognized in the period the award becomes payable or exercisable. 
  Compensation expense related to awards under the 2005 Stock Plan is principally related to the issuance of Stock Options, Performance Shares and Restricted Stock Units. The majority of the awards granted each year under the 2005 Stock Plan are made in the first quarter of each year. 
  Certain stock-based awards provide solely for cash settlement based on changes in the price of Shares and other factors ( Phantom Stock-Based Awards ). Such awards have been made under the MetLife, Inc. International Unit Option Incentive Plan, the MetLife International Performance Unit Incentive Plan, and the MetLife International Restricted Unit Incentive Plan. 
  Description of Plans for Non-Management Directors   General Terms 
  Under the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan (the  2005 Directors Stock Plan ), awards granted may be in the form of non-qualified Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, or Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the 2005 Directors Stock Plan with reference to Shares) to non-management Directors of MetLife, Inc. The number of Shares authorized for issuance under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan is   2,000,000  . There were no Shares carried forward from any prior MetLife, Inc. directors stock plan to the 2005 Directors Stock Plan. At December 31,   2014  , the aggregate number of Shares remaining available for issuance pursuant to the 2005 Directors Stock Plan was   1,642,208  . Stock Option exercises and other awards settled in Shares are satisfied through the issuance of Shares held in treasury by the Company or by the issuance of new Shares. 
  Compensation expense related to awards under the 2005 Directors Plan is recognized based on the number of Shares awarded. The only awards made to date under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan have been Stock-Based Awards that have vested immediately. The majority of the awards granted each year under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan are made in the second quarter of each year. 
    294 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  16.  Equity (continued) 

   Compensation Expense Related to Stock-Based Compensation 
  The components of compensation expense related to stock-based compensation includes compensation expense related to Phantom Stock-Based Awards, and excludes the insignificant compensation expense related to the 2005 Directors Stock Plan. Those components were: 
   
 ______________ 
           (1) 
    Performance Shares expected to vest and the related compensation expenses may be further adjusted by the performance factor most likely to be achieved, as estimated by management, at the end of the performance period. 
     The following table presents the total unrecognized compensation expense related to stock-based compensation and the expected weighted average period over which these expenses will be recognized at: 

Equity Awards 
  Stock Options 
  Stock Options are the contingent right of award holders to purchase Shares at a stated price for a limited time. All Stock Options have an exercise price equal to the closing price of a Share reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of grant, and have a maximum term of   10   years. The vast majority of Stock Options granted has become or will become exercisable at a rate of one-third of each award on each of the first   three   anniversaries of the grant date. Other Stock Options have become or will become exercisable on the third anniversary of the grant date. Vesting is subject to continued service, except for employees who are retirement eligible and in certain other limited circumstances. 
    295 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  16.  Equity (continued) 

   A summary of the activity related to Stock Options was as follows: 
   
 ______________ 
   The fair value of Stock Options is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial lattice model. Significant assumptions used in the Company s binomial lattice model are further described below. The assumptions include: expected volatility of the price of Shares; risk-free rate of return; dividend yield on Shares; exercise multiple; and the post-vesting termination rate. 
  Expected volatility is based upon an analysis of historical prices of Shares and call options on Shares traded on the open market. The Company uses a weighted-average of the implied volatility for publicly-traded call options with the longest remaining maturity nearest to the money as of each valuation date and the historical volatility, calculated using monthly closing prices of Shares. The Company chose a monthly measurement interval for historical volatility as this interval reflects the Company s view that employee option exercise decisions are based on longer-term trends in the price of the underlying Shares rather than on daily price movements. 
  The binomial lattice model used by the Company incorporates different risk-free rates based on the imputed forward rates for U.S. Treasury Strips for each year over the contractual term of the option. The table below presents the full range of rates that were used for options granted during the respective periods. 
  Dividend yield is determined based on historical dividend distributions compared to the price of the underlying Shares as of the valuation date and held constant over the life of the Stock Option. 
  The binomial lattice model used by the Company incorporates the contractual term of the Stock Options. The model also factors in expected exercise behavior and a post-vesting termination rate, or the rate at which vested options are exercised or expire prematurely due to termination of employment. From these factors, the model derives an expected life of the Stock Option. The exercise behavior in the model is a multiple that reflects the ratio of exercise price to the strike price of the Stock Option at which holders are expected to exercise. The exercise multiple is derived from actual historical exercise activity. The post-vesting termination rate is determined from actual historical exercise experience and expiration activity under the Incentive Plans. 
    296 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  16.  Equity (continued) 

   The following table presents the weighted average assumptions, with the exception of risk-free rate, which is expressed as a range, used to determine the fair value of Stock Options issued: 

The following table presents a summary of Stock Option exercise activity: 

Performance Shares 
  Performance Shares are units that, if they vest, are multiplied by a performance factor to produce a number of final Performance Shares which are payable in Shares. Performance Shares are accounted for as equity awards, but are not credited with dividend-equivalents for actual dividends paid on Shares during the performance period. Performance Share awards normally vest in their entirety at the end of the three-year performance period. Vesting is subject to continued service, except for employees who are retirement eligible and in certain other limited circumstances. 
  For awards granted prior to the January 1, 2013     December 31,   2015 performance period, vested Performance Shares are multiplied by a performance factor of   0.0   to   2.0   based on MetLife, Inc. s adjusted income, total shareholder return, and performance in change in annual net operating earnings and total shareholder return compared to the performance of its competitors, each measured with respect to the applicable three-year performance period or portions thereof. The estimated fair value of Performance Shares is based upon the closing price of a Share on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of estimated dividends to be paid on that stock during the performance period. The performance factor for the January 1, 2011   December 31, 2013 performance period was   0.80  . 
  For the January 1, 2013     December 31,   2015 and January 1, 2014   December 31, 2016 performance periods, the vested Performance Shares will be multiplied by a performance factor of   0.00   to   1.75  . Assuming that MetLife, Inc. has met threshold performance goals related to its adjusted income or total shareholder return, the MetLife, Inc. Compensation Committee will determine the performance factor in its discretion. In doing so, the Compensation Committee may consider MetLife, Inc. s total shareholder return relative to the performance of its competitors and MetLife, Inc. s operating return on equity relative to its financial plan. The estimated fair value of Performance Shares will be re-measured each quarter until they become payable. 
  Restricte  d   Stock Units 
  Restricted Stock Units are units that, if they vest, are payable in an equal number of Shares. Restricted Stock Units are accounted for as equity awards and are not credited with dividend-equivalents for dividends paid on Shares. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of Restricted Stock Units is based upon the closing price of Shares on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of estimated dividends to be paid on that stock. 
    297 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  16.  Equity (continued) 

   The vast majority of Restricted Stock Units normally vest in their entirety on the third anniversary of their grant date. Other Restricted Stock Units normally vest in thirds on the first three anniversaries of their grant date, and others vest in their entirety on the fifth anniversary of their grant date. Vesting is subject to continued service, except for employees who are retirement eligible and in certain other limited circumstances. 
  The following table presents a summary of Performance Share and Restricted Stock Unit activity: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Includes both Shares paid and Shares deferred for later payment. 
     Performance Share amounts above represent aggregate initial target awards and do not reflect potential increases or decreases resulting from the performance factor determined after the end of the respective performance periods. At December 31, 2014, the   three   year performance period for the 2012 Performance Share grants was completed, but the performance factor had not yet been calculated. Included in the immediately preceding table are   1,756,783   outstanding Performance Shares to which the 2012   2014 performance factor will be applied. The factor will be determined in the second quarter of 2015. 
  Liability Awards (Phantom Stock-Based Awards) 
  Certain MetLife international subsidiaries have a liability for Phantom Stock-Based Awards in the form of Unit Options, Restricted Units, and/or Performance Units. These Share-based cash settled awards are recorded as liabilities until payout is made. Unlike Share-settled awards, which have a fixed grant-date fair value, the fair value of unsettled or unvested liability awards is remeasured at the end of each reporting period based on the change in fair value of one Share. The liability and corresponding expense are adjusted accordingly until the award is settled. 
  Unit Options 
  Each Unit Option is the contingent right of the holder to receive a cash payment equal to the closing price of a Share on the surrender date, less the closing price on the grant date, if the difference is greater than zero. The vast majority of Unit Options has become or will become eligible for surrender at a rate of one-third of each award on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant date. Other Unit Options have become or will become eligible for surrender on the third anniversary of the grant date. Vesting is subject to continued service, except for employees who are retirement eligible and in certain other limited circumstances. 
  Restricted Units 
  Restricted Units are units that, if they vest, are payable in cash equal to the closing price of a Share on the last day of the restriction period. The vast majority of Restricted Units normally vest in their entirety on the third anniversary of their grant date. Vesting is subject to continued service, except for employees who are retirement eligible and in certain other limited circumstances. 
    298 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  16.  Equity (continued) 

   Performance Units 
  Performance Units are units that, if they vest, are multiplied by a performance factor to produce a number of final Performance Units which are payable in cash equal to the closing price of a Share on a date following the last day of the three-year performance period. The performance factor for the Performance Units for any given period is determined on the identical basis as the performance factor for Performance Shares for the same performance period. Performance Units are accounted for as liability awards, but are not credited with dividend-equivalents for actual dividends paid on Shares during the performance period. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of Performance Units is based upon the closing price of a Share on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of estimated dividends to be paid on that stock during the performance period. 
  See    Equity Awards   Performance Shares  for a discussion of the Performance Shares vesting period and award calculation, which is also used for Performance Units. 
  The following table presents a summary of Liability Awards activity: 

Statutory Equity and Income 
  The states of domicile of   MetLife, Inc  . s U.S. insurance subsidiaries imposes risk-based capital ( RBC ) requirements that were developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ). American Life does not write business in Delaware or any other domestic state and, as such, is exempt from RBC requirements by Delaware law. Regulatory compliance is determined by a ratio of a company s total adjusted capital, calculated in the manner prescribed by the NAIC ( TAC ) to its authorized control level RBC, calculated in the manner prescribed by the NAIC ( ACL RBC ). Companies below specific trigger levels or ratios are classified by their respective levels, each of which requires specified corrective action. The minimum level of TAC before corrective action commences is twice ACL RBC ( Company Action RBC ). While not required by or filed with insurance regulators, the Company also calculates an internally defined combined RBC ratio ( Combined RBC Ratio ), which is determined by dividing the sum of TAC for   MetLife, Inc.   s principal U.S. insurance subsidiaries, excluding American Life, by the sum of Company Action RBC for such subsidiaries. The Company s Combined RBC Ratio was   in excess of 400%   for all periods presented. In addition, all non-exempted U.S. insurance subsidiaries individually exceeded Company Action RBC for all periods presented. 
  MetLife, Inc.   s foreign insurance operations are regulated by applicable authorities of the countries in which each entity operates and are subject to minimum capital and solvency requirements in those countries before corrective action commences. At December 31,   2014   and 2013, the adjusted capital of American Life s insurance subsidiary in Japan, the Company s largest foreign insurance operation, was   in excess of four times the 200% solvency margin ratio   that would require corrective action. Excluding Japan, the aggregate required capital and surplus of the Company s other foreign insurance operations was   $2.2 billion   and the aggregate actual regulatory capital and surplus of such operations was   $7.0 billion   as of the date of the most recent required capital adequacy calculation for each jurisdiction. Each of those other foreign insurance operations exceeded minimum capital and solvency requirements of their respective countries for all periods presented. 
  MetLife, Inc.   s insurance subsidiaries prepare statutory-basis financial statements in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the insurance department of the state of domicile or applicable foreign jurisdiction. The NAIC has adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting Principles ( Statutory Codification ). Statutory Codification is intended to standardize regulatory accounting and reporting to state insurance departments. However, statutory accounting principles continue to be established by individual state laws and permitted practices. Modifications by the various state insurance departments may impact the effect of Statutory Codification on the statutory capital and surplus of   MetLife, Inc.   s U.S. insurance subsidiaries. 
    299 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  16.  Equity (continued) 

   Statutory accounting principles differ from GAAP primarily by charging policy acquisition costs to expense as incurred, establishing future policy benefit liabilities using different actuarial assumptions, reporting surplus notes as surplus instead of debt and valuing securities on a different basis. 
  In addition, certain assets are not admitted under statutory accounting principles and are charged directly to surplus. The most significant assets not admitted by the Company are net deferred income tax assets resulting from temporary differences between statutory accounting principles basis and tax basis not expected to reverse and become recoverable within three years. Further, statutory accounting principles do not give recognition to purchase accounting adjustments. 
  The Department of Financial Services issues an annual  Special Considerations  circular letter to New York licensed insurers requiring tests to be performed as part of insurers  year-end asset adequacy testing. The Department of Financial Services issued its 2014 Special Considerations letter on October 10, 2014, which was substantially similar to the 2013 letter. The letter mandates the use of certain assumptions in asset adequacy testing. In 2013, MLIC established a three-year grade-in schedule for the amount of LTC reserves required as a result of the new assumptions. In 2014, MLIC established an additional schedule, reflecting current economic conditions, liabilities and assets. The following table summarizes the two schedules of strengthening:  

______________ 
   MetLife, Inc.   s U.S. insurance subsidiaries have no material state prescribed accounting practices, except for American Life and as described below. American Life calculates its policyholder reserves on insurance written in each foreign jurisdiction in accordance with the reserve standards required by such jurisdiction. American Life is not required to quantify the impact to its statutory capital and surplus as a result of applying this prescribed practice to its branch operations. Additionally, American Life s insurance subsidiaries are valued based on each respective subsidiary s underlying local statutory equity, adjusted in a manner consistent with the reporting prescribed for its branch operations. This valuation basis resulted in lower statutory capital and surplus of   $2.8 billion   for the year ended December 31,   2014   and higher statutory capital and surplus of   $20 million   for the year ended December 31,   2013   than if the insurance subsidiaries were valued under NAIC guidance. 
  The Delaware Department of Insurance approved two statutory accounting permitted practices for MetLife USA. For December 31, 2013, MetLife USA applied a U.S. GAAP reserving methodology for certain foreign blocks of business held by Exeter prior to the Mergers. See   Note 8  . These blocks of business were recaptured by the counterparties prior to the Mergers and are, therefore, not included in MetLife USA s reserves as of December 31, 2014. In addition, the Delaware Department of Insurance granted permission for MetLife USA not to calculate, record or disclose the effect of this permitted practice on statutory surplus and net income. Additionally, the Delaware Department of Insurance granted approval for MetLife USA to present the statutory conversion of Exeter s capital and surplus accounts, which have been historically reported under U.S. GAAP, as an adjustment to MetLife USA s gross paid-in and contributed surplus in a manner similar to a quasi-reorganization for all periods presented. This permitted practice had the effect of decreasing gross paid-in and contributed surplus and increasing unassigned funds for MetLife USA by   $4.4 billion   for the year ended December 31, 2013 with no net effect on overall capital and surplus. 
  The tables below present amounts from   MetLife, Inc.   s primary insurance subsidiaries, which are derived from the most recent statutory basis financial statements as filed with the insurance regulators. 
    300 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  16.  Equity (continued) 

   Statutory net income (loss) was as follows: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Statutory net income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2012 is as filed with the Connecticut Insurance Department by MICC and does not reflect the results of the Mergers. See   Note 8   for a discussion on the Mergers. 
     Statutory capital and surplus was as follows at: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    See   Note 8   for a discussion on the Mergers. 
     As derived from the most recent annual statutory basis financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the aggregate statutory net income and aggregate statutory capital and surplus of the Company s foreign insurance subsidiaries not owned directly or indirectly by the Company s primary insurance subsidiaries set forth in the table above was   $593 million   and   $4.1 billion  , respectively. 
  The Company s domestic captive life reinsurance subsidiaries, which reinsure risks including the closed block, level premium term life and ULSG assumed from other MetLife subsidiaries, have no state prescribed accounting practices, except for MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont ( MRV ) and MetLife Reinsurance Company of Delaware ( MRD ). MRV, with the explicit permission of the Commissioner of Insurance of the State of Vermont, has included, as admitted assets, the value of letters of credit serving as collateral for reinsurance credit taken by various affiliated cedants, in connection with reinsurance agreements entered into between MRV and the various affiliated cedants, which resulted in higher statutory capital and surplus of   $6.0 billion   and   $5.5 billion   for the years ended December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. MRV s RBC would have triggered a regulatory event without the use of the state prescribed practice. MRD, with the explicit permission of the Commissioner of Insurance of the State of Delaware, has included, as admitted assets, the value of letters of credit issued to MRD, which resulted in higher statutory capital and surplus of   $75 million   and   $0   for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. MRD s RBC would not have triggered a regulatory event without the use of the state prescribed practice. The statutory net income (loss) of   MetLife, Inc.   s domestic captive life reinsurance subsidiaries was   ($320) million  ,   ($612) million   and   ($154) million   for the years ended December   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, and the statutory capital and surplus, including the aforementioned prescribed practice, was   $5.2 billion   and   $4.3 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
    301 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  16.  Equity (continued) 

   Dividend Restrictions 
  Insurance Operations 
  The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by MetLife, Inc. s primary insurance subsidiaries without insurance regulatory approval and dividends paid: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2015 without prior regulatory approval. However, because dividend tests may be based on dividends previously paid over rolling 12-month periods, if paid before a specified date during 2015, some or all of such dividends may require regulatory approval. 
              (2) 
    Reflects all amounts paid, including those requiring regulatory approval. 
              (3) 
    During December 2014, MLIC distributed shares of an affiliate to MetLife, Inc. as an in-kind dividend of   $113 million  . 
              (4) 
    See   Note 8   for a discussion of the Mergers. 
              (5) 
    Prior to the Mergers, Exeter paid dividends of   $155 million   on its preferred stock. In August 2014, MICC redeemed for   $1.4 billion   and retired   4,595,317   shares of its common stock owned by MetLife Investors Group LLC ( MLIG ). Following the redemption, in August 2014, MLIG paid a dividend of   $1.4 billion   to MetLife, Inc. MetLife USA did not pay dividends in 2014. 
               (7) 
    During October 2013, Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company ( MTL ) distributed shares of an affiliate to MetLife, Inc. as an in-kind dividend of   $32 million  . Also during October 2013, MTL paid a dividend to MetLife, Inc. in the amount of   $77 million   in cash, which represented its dividend capacity without regulatory approval at December 31, 2013. Regulatory approval for these dividends was obtained due to the amount and timing of the payments. 
     Under New York State Insurance Law, MLIC is permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay stockholder dividends to MetLife, Inc. as long as the aggregate amount of all such dividends in any calendar year does not exceed the lesser of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately preceding calendar year, or (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year (excluding realized capital gains). MLIC will be permitted to pay a dividend to MetLife, Inc. in excess of the lesser of such two amounts only if it files notice of its intention to declare such a dividend and the amount thereof with the New York Superintendent of Financial Services (the  Superintendent ) and the Superintendent either approves the distribution of the dividend or does not disapprove the dividend within 30 days of its filing. Under New York State Insurance Law, the Superintendent has broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to its stockholders. 
    302 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  16.  Equity (continued) 

   Under Delaware State Insurance Law, each of American Life, MetLife USA, and MTL is permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay a stockholder dividend to MetLife, Inc. as long as the amount of the dividend, when aggregated with all other dividends in the preceding 12 months, does not exceed the greater of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately preceding calendar year, or (ii) its net statutory gain from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year (excluding realized capital gains). Each of American Life, MetLife USA, and MTL will be permitted to pay a dividend to MetLife, Inc. in excess of the greater of such two amounts only if it files notice of the declaration of such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Delaware Commissioner of Insurance (the  Delaware Commissioner ) and the Delaware Commissioner either approves the distribution of the dividend or does not disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its filing. In addition, any dividend that exceeds earned surplus (defined as  unassigned funds (surplus) ) as of the immediately preceding calendar year requires insurance regulatory approval. Under Delaware State Insurance Law, the Delaware Commissioner has broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to its stockholders. 
  Under the Rhode Island Insurance Code, Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company ( MPC ) is permitted, without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay a stockholder dividend to MetLife, Inc. as long as the aggregate amount of all such dividends in any 12 month period does not exceed the lesser of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately preceding calendar year, or (ii) net income, not including realized capital gains, for the immediately preceding calendar year, not including pro rata distributions of MPC s own securities. In determining whether a dividend is extraordinary, MPC may include carry forward net income from the previous two calendar years, excluding realized capital gains less dividends paid in the second and immediately preceding calendar years. MPC will be permitted to pay a dividend to MetLife, Inc. in excess of the lesser of such two amounts only if it files notice of its intention to declare such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Rhode Island Commissioner of Insurance (the  Rhode Island Commissioner ) and the Rhode Island Commissioner either approves the distribution of the dividend or does not disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its filing. Under the Rhode Island Insurance Code, the Rhode Island Commissioner has broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a stock property and casualty insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to its stockholders. 
  MetLife, Inc. 
  In addition to regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by its subsidiaries to MetLife, Inc., the payment of dividends by MetLife, Inc. to its stockholders is also subject to restrictions. The declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors, and will depend on its financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. In addition, the payment of dividends on MetLife, Inc. s common stock, and MetLife, Inc. s ability to repurchase its common stock, may be subject to restrictions described below arising out of (i) regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve Board ) and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (collectively, with the Federal Reserve Board, the  Federal Reserve ) as a result of the designation of MetLife, Inc. by the Financial Stability Oversight Council ( FSOC ) as a non-bank systemically important financial institution ( non-bank SIFI ), and (ii) restrictions under the terms of MetLife, Inc. s preferred stock, and junior subordinated debentures in situations where MetLife, Inc. may be experiencing financial stress, as described below. For purposes of this discussion,  junior subordinated debentures  are deemed to include MetLife, Inc. s Fixed-to-Floating Rate Exchangeable Surplus Trust Securities, which are exchangeable at the option of MetLife, Inc., or in the future upon the occurrence of certain events, for junior subordinated debentures, and which contain terms with the same substantive effects described in this discussion as the terms in MetLife s junior subordinated debentures. 
  Regulatory Restrictions.   On December 18, 2014, the FSOC designated MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. On January 13, 2015, MetLife, Inc. filed an action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia asking the court to review and rescind the FSOC s designation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI. The Federal Reserve Board proposed a set of prudential standards that would have applied to non-bank SIFIs. The Federal Reserve Board s proposal contemplated that these standards could be tailored for different companies on an individual basis or by category, taking into consideration their capital structure, riskiness, complexity, financial activities, size and any other risk-related factors that the Federal Reserve Board deems appropriate. In February 2014, the Federal Reserve Board implemented certain of the enhanced prudential standards for bank holding companies and foreign banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more and indicated that it plans to apply enhanced prudential standards to non-bank SIFIs by rule or order. Accordingly, the manner in which these proposed standards might apply to MetLife, Inc. remains unclear. Enhanced prudential and capital standards imposed on MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI could adversely affect its ability to pay dividends to its stockholders, as well as repurchase its common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect its capital. MetLife, Inc. has also been designated as a global systemically important insurer by the Financial Stability Board. As such, it could be subject to enhanced capital standards and supervision and other additional requirements that would not apply to companies that are not so designated. These policy measures would need to be implemented by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction, and the impact on MetLife, Inc. is uncertain. 
    303 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  16.  Equity (continued) 

    Dividend Stopper  Provisions in the Preferred Stock and Junior Subordinated Debentures  . Certain terms of MetLife, Inc. s preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures (sometimes referred to as  dividend stoppers ) may prevent it from repurchasing its common or preferred stock or paying dividends on its common or preferred stock in certain circumstances. Dividends on the preferred stock are not cumulative. If a dividend is not declared before the dividend payment date, MetLife, Inc. has no obligation to pay dividends accrued for that dividend period whether or not dividends are declared and paid in future periods. No dividends may, however, be paid or declared on MetLife, Inc. s common stock   or any other securities ranking junior to the preferred stock   unless the full dividends for the latest completed dividend period on all preferred stock, and any parity stock, have been declared and paid or provided for. Under the junior subordinated debentures, if MetLife, Inc. has not paid in full the accrued interest on its junior subordinated debentures through the most recent interest payment date, it may not repurchase or pay dividends on its common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock), subject to certain exceptions. The junior subordinated debentures provide that MetLife may, at its option and provided that certain conditions are met, defer payment of interest without giving rise to an event of default for periods of up to 10 years (although after five years MetLife, Inc. would be obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell equity securities to raise proceeds to pay the interest), with no limitation on the number of deferral periods that MetLife, Inc. may begin, so long as all accrued and unpaid interest is paid with respect to prior deferral periods. If MetLife, Inc. were to elect to defer payments of interest, the  dividend stopper  provisions in the junior subordinated debentures would thus prevent MetLife, Inc. from repurchasing or paying dividends on its common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock) during the period of deferral, subject to exceptions. 
  In addition, the preferred stock and the junior subordinated debentures contain provisions that would automatically suspend the payment of preferred stock dividends and junior subordinated debenture interest payments if MetLife, Inc. fails to meet certain risk based capital ratio, net income and stockholders  equity tests at specified times. In such cases, however, MetLife would be permitted to make the payments if it were able to utilize a prescribed alternative payment mechanism. As a result of the suspension of these payments, the  dividend stopper  provisions would come into effect. 
  MetLife, Inc. is a party to certain RCCs which limit its ability to eliminate these restrictions through the repayment, redemption or purchase of preferred stock or junior subordinated debentures by requiring MetLife, Inc., subject to certain limitations, to receive cash proceeds during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities prior to any such repayment, redemption or purchase. See    Preferred Stock  for a description of such covenants in effect with respect to the preferred stock, and   Note 14   for a description of such covenants in effect with respect to junior subordinated debentures. 
    304 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  16.  Equity (continued) 

   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
  Information regarding changes in the balances of each component of AOCI attributable to MetLife, Inc., net of income tax, was as follows: 

__________________ 
           (1) 
    See   Note 8   for information on offsets to investments related to future policy benefits, DAC, VOBA and DSI, and the policyholder dividend obligation. 
        305 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  16.  Equity (continued) 

   Information regarding amounts reclassified out of each component of AOCI, was as follows: 

__________________ 
           (1) 
    These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic benefit costs. See Note 18. 
       306 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 

   17. Other Expenses 
    Information on other expenses was as follows: 

__________________ 
           (1) 
    See   Note 19   for information on the Japan income tax refund included in other expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013. 
     Capitalization of DAC and Amortization of DAC and VOBA 
  See   Note 5   for additional information on DAC and VOBA including impacts of capitalization and amortization. See also   Note 7   for a description of the DAC amortization impact associated with the closed block. 
  Interest Expense on Debt  
  See Notes   12  ,   13  ,   14   and   15   for attribution of interest expense by debt issuance. Interest expense on debt includes interest expense related to CSEs. See   Note 8  . 
    Restructuring Charges 
  The Company commenced an enterprise-wide strategic initiative in 2012. This global strategy focuses on leveraging the Company s scale to improve the value it provides to customers and shareholders in order to reduce costs, enhance revenues, achieve efficiencies and reinvest in its technology, platforms and functionality to improve its current operations and develop new capabilities. 
    307 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  17.  Other Expenses (continued) 

   These restructuring charges are included in other expenses. As the expenses relate to an enterprise-wide initiative, they are reported in Corporate   Other.  Information regarding restructuring charges was as follows: 

Management anticipates further restructuring charges including severance, as well as lease and asset impairments, through the year ending December 31, 2016. However, such restructuring plans were not sufficiently developed to enable management to make an estimate of such restructuring charges at December 31,   2014  . 
  ALICO Integration-Related Expenses 
  Integration-related costs were less than   $1 million  ,   $138 million   and   $305 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. Integration-related costs represent costs directly related to integrating ALICO, including expenses for consulting and the integration of information systems. Such costs have been expensed as incurred and, as the integration of ALICO is an enterprise-wide initiative, these expenses are reported in Corporate   Other. The Company does not expect future ALICO integration-related costs to be material. 
    18. Employee Benefit Plans 
    Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans 
  Certain subsidiaries sponsor and/or administer various U.S. qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement employee benefit plans covering employees and sales representatives who meet specified eligibility requirements. U.S. pension benefits are provided utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula. The traditional formula provides benefits that are primarily based upon years of credited service and either final average or career average earnings. The cash balance formula utilizes hypothetical or notional accounts which credit participants with benefits equal to a percentage of eligible pay, as well as earnings credits, determined annually based upon the average annual rate of interest on 30-year U.S. Treasury securities, for each account balance. At   December 31, 2014  , the majority of active participants were accruing benefits under the cash balance formula; however,   89%   of these subsidiaries  obligations result from benefits calculated with the traditional formula. The U.S. non-qualified pension plans provide supplemental benefits in excess of limits applicable to a qualified plan. The non-U.S. pension plans generally provide benefits based upon either years of credited service and earnings preceding-retirement or points earned on job grades and other factors in years of service. 
  These subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits for retired employees. Employees of these subsidiaries who were hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working for one of the  subsidiaries may become eligible for these other postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with the applicable plans. Virtually all retirees, or their beneficiaries, contribute a portion of the total costs of postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are not eligible for any employer subsidy for postretirement medical benefits. 
    308 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  18.  Employee Benefit Plans (continued) 

Obligations and Funded Status 
   
 _____________ 
     309 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  18.  Employee Benefit Plans (continued) 

   The aggregate pension accumulated benefit obligation and aggregate fair value of plan assets for pension benefit plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets was as follows at: 

Information for pension and other postretirement benefit plans with a PBO in excess of plan assets were as follows at: 

Net Periodic Benefit Costs 
  Net periodic benefit costs are determined using management estimates and actuarial assumptions to derive service costs, interest costs and expected return on plan assets for a particular year. Net periodic benefit costs also includes the applicable amortization of net actuarial (gains) losses and amortization of any prior service costs (credit). 
  The obligations and expenses associated with these plans require an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. Management, in consultation with its external consulting actuarial firms, determines these assumptions based upon a variety of factors such as historical performance of the plan and its assets, currently available market and industry data and expected benefit payout streams. The assumptions used may differ materially from actual results due to, among other factors, changing market and economic conditions and changes in participant demographics. These differences may have a significant effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements and liquidity. 
    310 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  18.  Employee Benefit Plans (continued) 

   Net periodic pension costs and net periodic other postretirement benefit plan costs are comprised of the following: 
             
    Service Costs   Service costs are the increase in the projected (expected) PBO resulting from benefits payable to employees on service rendered during the current year. 
                
    Interest Costs   Interest costs are the time value adjustment on the projected (expected) PBO at the end of each year. 
                
    Settlement and Curtailment Costs   The aggregate amount of net (gains) losses recognized in net periodic benefit costs is due to settlements and curtailments. Settlements result from actions that relieve/eliminate the plan s responsibility for benefit obligations or risks associated with the obligations or assets used for the settlement. Curtailments result from an event that significantly reduces/eliminates plan participants  expected years of future services or benefit accruals. 
                
    Expected Return on Plan Assets   Expected return on plan assets is the assumed return earned by the accumulated pension and other postretirement fund assets in a particular year. 
                
    Amortization of Net Actuarial (Gains) Losses   Actuarial gains and losses result from differences between the actual experience and the expected experience on pension and other postretirement plan assets or projected (expected) PBO during a particular period. These gains and losses are accumulated and, to the extent they exceed   10%   of the greater of the PBO or the fair value of plan assets, the excess is amortized into pension and other postretirement benefit costs over the expected service years of the employees. 
                
    Amortization of Prior Service Costs (Credit)   These costs relate to the recognition of increases or decreases in pension and other postretirement benefit obligation due to amendments in plans or initiation of new plans. These increases or decreases in obligation are recognized in AOCI at the time of the amendment. These costs are then amortized to pension and other postretirement benefit costs over the expected service years of the employees affected by the change. 
       311 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  18.  Employee Benefit Plans (continued) 

   The components of net periodic benefit costs and other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in OCI were as follows: 

The estimated net actuarial (gains) losses and prior service costs (credit) for the U.S. pension plans and the U.S. defined benefit other postretirement benefit plans that will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic benefit costs over the next year are   $200 million   and   ($1) million  , and   $31 million   and   ($4) million  , respectively. 
    312 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  18.  Employee Benefit Plans (continued) 

   Assumptions 
  Assumptions used in determining benefit obligations were as follows: 
   
 ______________ 
           (1) 
    Reflects those assumptions that were most appropriate for the local economic environments of each of the subsidiaries providing such benefits. 
     Assumptions used in determining net periodic benefit costs were as follows: 
   
 ______________ 
           (1) 
    Reflects those assumptions that were most appropriate for the local economic environments of each of the subsidiaries providing such benefits. 
     The weighted average discount rate for the U.S. plans is determined annually based on the yield, measured on a yield to worst basis, of a hypothetical portfolio constructed of high quality debt instruments available on the valuation date, which would provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the aggregate PBO when due. 
  The weighted average discount rate for non-U.S. pension plans is based on the duration of liabilities on a country by country basis. The rate was selected by reference to high quality corporate bonds in developed markets or local government bonds where markets were less robust or nonexistent. 
  The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets for the U.S. plans is based on anticipated performance of the various asset sectors in which the plans invest, weighted by target allocation percentages. Anticipated future performance is based on long-term historical returns of the plan assets by sector, adjusted for the long-term expectations on the performance of the markets. While the precise expected rate of return derived using this approach will fluctuate from year to year, the policy is to hold this long-term assumption constant as long as it remains within reasonable tolerance from the derived rate. 
    313 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  18.  Employee Benefit Plans (continued) 

   The weighted average expected long-term rate of return for the non-U.S. pension plans is an aggregation of each country s expected rate of return within each asset class. For each country, the rate of return with respect to each asset class was developed based on a building block approach that considers historical returns, current market conditions, asset volatility and the expectations for future market returns. While the assessment of the expected rate of return is long-term and not expected to change annually, significant changes in investment strategy or economic conditions may warrant such a change. The expected rate of return within each asset class, together with any contributions made, are expected to maintain the plans  ability to meet all required benefit obligations. 
  The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets for use in that plan s valuation in   2015   is currently anticipated to be   6.24%   for U.S. pension benefits and   5.65%   for U.S. other postretirement benefits. The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets for use in that plan s valuation in   2015   is currently anticipated to be   2.73%   for non-U.S. pension benefits and   6.75%   for non-U.S. other postretirement benefits. 
  The assumed healthcare costs trend rates used in measuring the APBO and net periodic benefit costs were as follows: 

Assumed healthcare costs trend rates may have a significant effect on the amounts reported for healthcare plans. A 1% change in assumed healthcare costs trend rates would have the following effects as of   December 31, 2014  : 
                                               
    U.S. Plans 
      
    Non-U.S. Plans 
        
    One Percent 
  Increase 
      
    One Percent 
  Decrease 
      
    One Percent 
  Increase 
      
    One Percent 
  Decrease 
        
    (In millions) 
      Effect on total of service and interest costs components 
    $ 
    14 

$ 
    (11 
    ) 
      
    $ 

$ 

Effect of accumulated postretirement benefit obligations 
    $ 
    302 

$ 
    (245 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    1 

$ 
    (1 
    ) 

As of December 31, 2014, the improved mortality rate assumption used for all U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans is the RP-2000 healthy mortality table projected generationally using 175% of Scale AA. The mortality rate assumption was revised based upon the results of a comprehensive study of MetLife s demographic experience and reflects the current best estimate of expected mortality rates for MetLife s participant population. Prior to December 31, 2014, the mortality rate assumption used to value the benefit obligations and net periodic benefit cost for these plans was the RP-2000 healthy mortality table projected generationally using 100% of Scale AA.  
    
    314 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  18.  Employee Benefit Plans (continued) 

   Plan Assets 
  The pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets are categorized into a three-level fair value hierarchy, as defined in Note 10, based upon the significant input with the lowest level in its valuation. The following summarizes the types of assets included within the three-level fair value hierarchy presented below. 
                   Level 1 
      
    This category includes separate accounts that are invested in fixed maturity securities, equity securities, derivative assets and short-term investments which have unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. 

Level 2 
      
    This category includes certain separate accounts that are primarily invested in liquid and readily marketable securities. The estimated fair value of such separate account is based upon reported NAV provided by fund managers and this value represents the amount at which transfers into and out of the respective separate account are effected. These separate accounts provide reasonable levels of price transparency and can be corroborated through observable market data. 

Directly held investments are primarily invested in U.S. and foreign government and corporate securities. 

Level 3 
      
    This category includes separate accounts that are invested in fixed maturity securities, equity securities, derivative assets and other investments that provide little or no price transparency due to the infrequency with which the underlying assets trade and generally require additional time to liquidate in an orderly manner. Accordingly, the values for separate accounts invested in these alternative asset classes are based on inputs that cannot be readily derived from or corroborated by observable market data. 

Certain separate accounts are invested in investment partnerships designated as hedge funds. The values for these separate accounts is determined monthly based on the NAV of the underlying hedge fund investment. Additionally, such hedge funds generally contain lock out or other waiting period provisions for redemption requests to be filled. While the reporting and redemption restrictions may limit the frequency of trading activity in separate accounts invested in hedge funds, the reported NAV, and thus the referenced value of the separate account, provides a reasonable level of price transparency that can be corroborated through observable market data. 

U.S. Plans 
  Certain U.S. subsidiaries provide employees with benefits under various Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) benefit plans. These include qualified pension plans, postretirement medical plans and certain retiree life insurance coverage. The assets of these U.S. subsidiaries  qualified pension plans are held in an insurance group annuity contract, and the vast majority of the assets of the postretirement medical plan and backing the retiree life coverage are held in a trust which largely utilizes insurance contracts to hold the assets. All of these contracts are issued by Company insurance affiliates, and the assets under the contracts are held in insurance separate accounts that have been established by the Company. The underlying assets of the separate accounts are principally comprised of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, fixed maturity and equity securities, derivatives, real estate, private equity investments and hedge fund investments. 
  The insurance contract provider engages investment management firms ( Managers ) to serve as sub-advisors for the separate accounts based on the specific investment needs and requests identified by the plan fiduciary. These Managers have portfolio management discretion over the purchasing and selling of securities and other investment assets pursuant to the respective investment management agreements and guidelines established for each insurance separate account. The assets of the qualified pension plans and postretirement medical plans (the  Invested Plans ) are well diversified across multiple asset categories and across a number of different Managers, with the intent of minimizing risk concentrations within any given asset category or with any given Manager. 
  The Invested Plans, other than those held in participant directed investment accounts, are managed in accordance with investment policies consistent with the longer-term nature of related benefit obligations and within prudent risk parameters. Specifically, investment policies are oriented toward (i) maximizing the Invested Plan s funded status; (ii) minimizing the volatility of the Invested Plan s funded status; (iii) generating asset returns that exceed liability increases; and (iv) targeting rates of return in excess of a custom benchmark and industry standards over appropriate reference time periods. These goals are expected to be met through identifying appropriate and diversified asset classes and allocations, ensuring adequate liquidity to pay benefits and expenses when due and controlling the costs of administering and managing the Invested Plan s investments. Independent investment consultants are periodically used to evaluate the investment risk of Invested Plan s assets relative to liabilities, analyze the economic and portfolio impact of various asset allocations and management strategies and to recommend asset allocations. 
    315 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  18.  Employee Benefit Plans (continued) 

   Derivative contracts may be used to reduce investment risk, to manage duration and to replicate the risk/return profile of an asset or asset class. Derivatives may not be used to leverage a portfolio in any manner, such as to magnify exposure to an asset, asset class, interest rates or any other financial variable. Derivatives are also prohibited for use in creating exposures to securities, currencies, indices or any other financial variable that is otherwise restricted. 
  The table below summarizes the actual weighted average allocation of the fair value of total plan assets by asset class at December 31 for the years indicated and the approved target allocation by major asset class at   December 31, 2014   for the Invested Plans: 
   
 ______________ 
           (1) 
    Fixed maturity securities include ABS, collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate, federal agency, foreign bonds, mortgage-backed securities, municipals, preferred stocks, U.S. government bonds and exchange traded funds. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified from equity securities into fixed maturity securities to conform to the current year presentation. 
              (2) 
    Equity securities primarily include common stock of U.S. companies. 
              (3) 
    Alternative securities primarily include derivative assets, money market securities, short-term investments and other investments. Postretirement life s target and actual allocation of plan assets are all in short-term investments. 
       316 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  18.  Employee Benefit Plans (continued) 

   The pension and postretirement plan assets measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis were determined as described in    Plan Assets.  These estimated fair values and their corresponding placement in the fair value hierarchy are summarized as follows: 

317 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  18.  Employee Benefit Plans (continued) 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Other primarily includes mortgage-backed securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and ABS. 
     A rollforward of all pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs was as follows: 

318 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  18.  Employee Benefit Plans (continued) 

Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 
        
    Other Postretirement Benefits 
        
    Fixed Maturity 
  Securities 

Corporate 
      
    Municipals 
      
    Other (1) 
      
    Derivative 
  Assets 
        
    (In millions) 
      Year Ended December 31, 2014 

Balance at January 1, 
    $ 
    1 

$ 

$ 

$ 

Realized gains (losses) 

Unrealized gains (losses) 
    1 

Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, net 
    1 

Transfers into and/or out of Level 3 

Balance at December 31, 
    $ 
    3 

$ 

$ 

$ 

Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 
        
    Other Postretirement Benefits 
        
    Fixed Maturity 
  Securities 

Corporate 
      
    Municipals 
      
    Other (1) 
      
    Derivative 
  Assets 
        
    (In millions) 
      Year Ended December 31, 2013 

Balance at January 1, 
    $ 
    4 

$ 
    1 

$ 
    3 

$ 

Realized gains (losses) 

(3 
    ) 

Unrealized gains (losses) 

4 

Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, net 
    (3 
    ) 
      
    (1 
    ) 
      
    (4 
    ) 

Transfers into and/or out of Level 3 

Balance at December 31, 
    $ 
    1 

$ 

$ 

$ 

319 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  18.  Employee Benefit Plans (continued) 

Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 
        
    Other Postretirement Benefits 
        
    Fixed Maturity 
  Securities 

Corporate 
      
    Municipals 
      
    Other (1) 
      
    Derivative 
  Assets 
        
    (In millions) 
      Year Ended December 31, 2012 

Balance at January 1, 
    $ 
    4 

$ 
    1 

$ 
    5 

$ 
    1 
      
      Realized gains (losses) 

(2 
    ) 
      
    2 
      
      Unrealized gains (losses) 

2 

(2 
    ) 
      Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, net 

(2 
    ) 
      
    (1 
    ) 
      Transfers into and/or out of Level 3 

Balance at December 31, 
    $ 
    4 

$ 
    1 

$ 
    3 

$ 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Other includes ABS and collateralized mortgage obligations. 
     Non-U.S. Plans 
  Pension benefits are provided utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula, similar to the U.S. plans. The investment objectives are also similar, subject to local regulations. Generally, these international pension plans invest directly in high quality equity and fixed maturity securities. The assets of the non-U.S. pension plans are comprised of short-term investments, equity and fixed maturity securities, real estate and hedge fund investments. 
  The assets of the non-U.S. pension plans, other than those held in participant directed investment accounts, are managed in accordance with investment policies consistent with the longer-term nature of related benefit obligations and within prudent risk parameters and consistent with the policies, goals and derivative instrument risk management guidelines described above for the U.S. plans. 
    320 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  18.  Employee Benefit Plans (continued) 

   The table below summarizes the actual weighted average allocation of the fair value of total plan assets by asset class at December 31 for the years indicated and the approved target allocation by major asset class at December 31,   2014   for the plans: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Fixed maturity securities include corporate and foreign bonds. 
              (2) 
    Equity securities primarily include common stock of non-U.S. companies. 
              (3) 
    Alternative securities include derivative assets, real estate, short-term investments, and other investments. 
     The pension and postretirement plan assets measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis were determined as described in    Plan Assets.  These estimated fair values and their corresponding placement in the fair value hierarchy are summarized as follows: 

321 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  18.  Employee Benefit Plans (continued) 

A rollforward of all pension benefit plan assets measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs was as follows: 

Expected Future Contributions and Benefit Payments 
  It is the subsidiaries  practice to make contributions to the U.S. qualified pension plan to comply with minimum funding requirements of ERISA. In accordance with such practice, no contributions are required for   2015  . The subsidiaries expect to make discretionary contributions to the qualified pension plan of   $300 million   in   2015  . For information on employer contributions, see    Obligations and Funded Status.  
  Benefit payments due under the U.S. non-qualified pension plans are primarily funded from the subsidiaries  general assets as they become due under the provision of the plans, therefore benefit payments equal employer contributions. The U.S. subsidiaries expect to make contributions of   $70 million   to fund the benefit payments in   2015  . 
    322 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  18.  Employee Benefit Plans (continued) 

   U.S. and non-U.S. postretirement benefits are either: (i) not vested under law; (ii) a non-funded obligation of the subsidiaries; or (iii) both. Current regulations do not require funding for these benefits. The subsidiaries use their general assets, net of participant s contributions, to pay postretirement medical claims as they come due. As permitted under the terms of the governing trust document, the subsidiaries may be reimbursed from plan assets for postretirement medical claims paid from their general assets. The U.S. subsidiaries expect to make contributions of   $50 million   towards benefit obligations in   2015   to pay postretirement medical claims. 
  Gross benefit payments for the next 10 years, which reflect expected future service where appropriate, are expected to be as follows: 

Additional Information 
  As previously discussed, most of the assets of the U.S. pension benefit plan are held in a group annuity contract issued by the subsidiaries while some of the assets of the U.S. postretirement benefit plans are held in a trust which largely utilizes life insurance contracts issued by the subsidiaries to hold such assets. Total revenues from these contracts recognized in the consolidated statements of operations were   $50 million  ,   $49 million   and   $54 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, and included policy charges and net investment income from investments backing the contracts and administrative fees. Total investment income (loss), including realized and unrealized gains (losses), credited to the account balances was   $1.2 billion  ,   $20 million   and   $867 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. The terms of these contracts are consistent in all material respects with those the subsidiaries offer to unaffiliated parties that are similarly situated. 
  Defined Contribution Plans 
  Certain subsidiaries sponsor defined contribution plans for substantially all U.S. employees under which a portion of employee contributions are matched. These subsidiaries contributed   $77 million  ,   $93 million   and   $96 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
    323 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 

   19. Income Tax 
    The provision for income tax from continuing operations was as follows: 

The Company s income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax expense (benefit) from domestic and foreign operations were as follows: 

The reconciliation of the income tax provision at the U.S. statutory rate to the provision for income tax as reported for continuing operations was as follows: 
   
 ______________ 
    324 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  19.  Income Tax (continued) 

            (1) 
    For the year ended December 31, 2014, foreign tax rate differential includes a one-time tax charge of     $54 million     related to tax reform in Chile     and   $45 million   related to the repatriation of earnings from Japan, partially offset by a one-time tax benefit of   $13 million   related to the change in repatriation assumption for foreign earnings of the United Arab Emirates ( UAE ). 
              (2) 
    For the year ended December 31, 2013, foreign tax rate differential includes one-time tax benefits of   $119 million   related to the receipt of a Japan tax refund,   $69 million   related to the estimated reversal of Japan temporary differences, and   $65 million   related to the change in repatriation assumptions for foreign earnings of certain European operations. 
     Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Net deferred income tax assets and liabilities consisted of the following at: 

See Note 1 for information regarding new guidance adopted by the Company related to the presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit. 
  Certain deferred income tax amounts at December 31, 2013 have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.  The reclassification did not result in a change to the prior year net deferred income tax asset (liability) balance. The significant impacts include deferred income tax asset for policyholder liabilities and receivables and the deferred income tax liability for investments, including derivatives, which increased by   $2.0 billion   and   $2.5 billion  , respectively.  Additionally, the deferred income tax liability for net unrealized investment gains decreased by   $373 million  .  The reclassifications resulted from a comprehensive review in the current year of the tax effects between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities, primarily with respect to recently restructured foreign operations.  The Company believes the effects of these reclassifications are immaterial to the prior periods. 
  The Company also has recorded a valuation allowance benefit of   $3 million   related to certain state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards. In addition, a   $33 million   reduction was related to foreign currency movement and a   $97 million   reduction was recorded as a balance sheet reclassification with other deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance reflects management s assessment, based on available information, that it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset for certain foreign and state net operating loss carryforwards will not be realized. The tax benefit will be recognized when management believes that it is more likely than not that these deferred income tax assets are realizable. 
    
    325 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  19.  Income Tax (continued) 

   The following table sets forth the domestic, state, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards and the domestic capital loss carryforwards for tax purposes at December 31,   2014  . 

The following table sets forth the general business credit, foreign tax credit, and other credit carryforwards for tax purposes at December 31, 2014. 

In December 2012, the Tokyo District Court ruled in favor of the Japan branch of American Life in a tax case related to the deduction of unrealized foreign exchange losses on certain securities held by American Life prior to its acquisition by MetLife. During the first quarter of 2013, American Life received a refund of    16 billion   (  $176 million  ) related to income tax, interest and penalties. Under the indemnification provisions of the stock purchase agreement dated March 7, 2010, as amended, by and among MetLife, Inc., American International Group, Inc. ( AIG ) and AM Holdings, MetLife, Inc. has remitted the refund to AIG, net of certain amounts it can retain as a counter claim. The receipt of the refund, net of obligations to AIG with related foreign currency exchange impact and corresponding U.S. tax effects, resulted in a net charge of   $16 million   in the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2013, which was comprised of a   $154 million   charge included in other expenses, a   $19 million   gain included in other net investment gains (losses) and a   $119 million   benefit included in provision for income tax expense (benefit). 
  The Company has not provided U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative earnings of certain non-U.S. affiliates that have been reinvested indefinitely. These earnings relate to ongoing operations and have been reinvested in active non-U.S. business operations. The Company does not intend to repatriate these earnings to fund U.S. operations. Deferred taxes are provided for earnings of non-U.S. affiliates when the Company plans to remit those earnings. At December 31,   2014  , the Company had not made a provision for U.S. taxes on approximately   $4.2 billion   of the excess of the amount for financial reporting over the tax bases of investments in foreign subsidiaries that are essentially permanent in duration. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of deferred tax liability related to investments in these foreign subsidiaries. 
  The Company considers the earnings of Japan, Argentina and the Middle East (excluding the UAE and Turkey) to be available for repatriation. Earnings from the remaining foreign countries are considered to be permanently reinvested. In 2014 and 2013, the Company changed its repatriation assumptions related to the UAE and certain of its European operations, respectively, and now considers these foreign earnings to be permanently reinvested.  
    326 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  19.  Income Tax (continued) 

   The Company files income tax returns with the U.S. federal government and various state and local jurisdictions, as well as foreign jurisdictions. The Company is under continuous examination by the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) and other tax authorities in jurisdictions in which the Company has significant business operations. The income tax years under examination vary by jurisdiction and subsidiary. The Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state, or local income tax examinations for years prior to 2007, except for 2000 through 2006 where the IRS disallowance relates predominantly to certain tax credits claimed and the Company continues to protest. In material foreign jurisdictions, the Company is no longer subject to income tax examination for years prior to 2009. 
  During June 2014, the IRS concluded its audit of the Company s tax returns for the years 2003 through 2006 and issued a Revenue Agent s report. The Company agreed with certain tax adjustments and filed a protest in July 2014 for other tax adjustments. Management believes it has established adequate tax liabilities and final resolution of the audit for the years 2003 through 2006 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s financial statements. 
  The Company s liability for unrecognized tax benefits may increase or decrease in the next 12 months. A reasonable estimate of the increase or decrease cannot be made at this time. However, the Company continues to believe that the ultimate resolution of the pending issues will not result in a material change to its consolidated financial statements, although the resolution of income tax matters could impact the Company s effective tax rate for a particular future period. 
  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits was as follows: 

The Company classifies interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense, included within other expenses, while penalties are included in income tax expense. 
  Interest was as follows: 

The Company had insignificant penalties for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. The Company had no penalties for the year ended December 31, 2012. 
    327 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  19.  Income Tax (continued) 

   The U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS have indicated that they intend to address through regulations the methodology to be followed in determining the dividends received deduction ( DRD ), related to variable life insurance and annuity contracts. The DRD reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference between the actual tax expense and expected amount determined using the federal statutory tax rate of   35%  . Any regulations that the IRS ultimately proposes for issuance in this area will be subject to public notice and comment, at which time insurance companies and other interested parties will have the opportunity to raise legal and practical questions about the content, scope and application of such regulations. As a result, the ultimate timing and substance of any such regulations are unknown at this time. For the years ended December 31,   2014   and   2013  , the Company recognized an income tax benefit of   $234 million   and   $164 million  , respectively, related to the separate account DRD. The 2014 benefit included a benefit of   $38 million   related to a true-up of the 2013 tax return. The 2013 benefit included a benefit of   $6 million   related to a true-up of the 2012 tax return. 
    328 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 

   20. Earnings Per Common Share 
    The following table presents the weighted average shares used in calculating basic earnings per common share and those used in calculating diluted earnings per common share for each income category presented below: 
   
 ______________ 
           (1) 
    See   Note 15   for a description of the Company s common equity units. For the year ended   December 31, 2012  , all shares related to the assumed issuance of shares in settlement of the applicable purchase contracts have been excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share as these assumed shares are anti-dilutive. 
       329 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 

   21. Contingencies, Commitments and Guarantees 
    Contingencies 
  Litigation 
  The Company is a defendant in a large number of litigation matters. In some of the matters, very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Modern pleading practice in the U.S. permits considerable variation in the assertion of monetary damages or other relief. Jurisdictions may permit claimants not to specify the monetary damages sought or may permit claimants to state only that the amount sought is sufficient to invoke the jurisdiction of the trial court. In addition, jurisdictions may permit plaintiffs to allege monetary damages in amounts well exceeding reasonably possible verdicts in the jurisdiction for similar matters. This variability in pleadings, together with the actual experience of the Company in litigating or resolving through settlement numerous claims over an extended period of time, demonstrates to management that the monetary relief which may be specified in a lawsuit or claim bears little relevance to its merits or disposition value. 
  Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain. Uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law. 
  The Company establishes liabilities for litigation and regulatory loss contingencies when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been established for a number of the matters noted below. It is possible that some of the matters could require the Company to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated at December 31,   2014  . While the potential future charges could be material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded, based on information currently known to management, management does not believe any such charges are likely to have a material effect on the Company s financial position. 
  Matters as to Which an Estimate Can Be Made 
  For some of the matters disclosed below, the Company is able to estimate a reasonably possible range of loss. For such matters where a loss is believed to be reasonably possible, but not probable, no accrual has been made. As of December 31,   2014  , the Company estimates the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses in excess of amounts accrued for these matters to be   $0   to   $390 million  . 
  Matters as to Which an Estimate Cannot Be Made 
  For other matters disclosed below, the Company is not currently able to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss. The Company is often unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss until developments in such matters have provided sufficient information to support an assessment of the range of possible loss, such as quantification of a damage demand from plaintiffs, discovery from other parties and investigation of factual allegations, rulings by the court on motions or appeals, analysis by experts, and the progress of settlement negotiations. On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant information with respect to litigation contingencies and updates its accruals, disclosures and estimates of reasonably possible losses or ranges of loss based on such reviews.  
    330 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  21.  Contingencies, Commitments and Guarantees (continued) 

   Asbestos-Related Claims 
  MLIC is and has been a defendant in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts. These suits principally allege that the plaintiff or plaintiffs suffered personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos and seek both actual and punitive damages. MLIC has never engaged in the business of manufacturing, producing, distributing or selling asbestos or asbestos-containing products nor has MLIC issued liability or workers  compensation insurance to companies in the business of manufacturing, producing, distributing or selling asbestos or asbestos-containing products. The lawsuits principally have focused on allegations with respect to certain research, publication and other activities of one or more of MLIC s employees during the period from the 1920 s through approximately the 1950 s and allege that MLIC learned or should have learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health risks. MLIC believes that it should not have legal liability in these cases. The outcome of most asbestos litigation matters, however, is uncertain and can be impacted by numerous variables, including differences in legal rulings in various jurisdictions, the nature of the alleged injury and factors unrelated to the ultimate legal merit of the claims asserted against MLIC. MLIC employs a number of resolution strategies to manage its asbestos loss exposure, including seeking resolution of pending litigation by judicial rulings and settling individual or groups of claims or lawsuits under appropriate circumstances. 
  Claims asserted against MLIC have included negligence, intentional tort and conspiracy concerning the health risks associated with asbestos. MLIC s defenses (beyond denial of certain factual allegations) include that: (i) MLIC owed no duty to the plaintiffs   it had no special relationship with the plaintiffs and did not manufacture, produce, distribute or sell the asbestos products that allegedly injured plaintiffs; (ii) plaintiffs did not rely on any actions of MLIC; (iii) MLIC s conduct was not the cause of the plaintiffs  injuries; (iv) plaintiffs  exposure occurred after the dangers of asbestos were known; and (v) the applicable time with respect to filing suit has expired. During the course of the litigation, certain trial courts have granted motions dismissing claims against MLIC, while other trial courts have denied MLIC s motions. There can be no assurance that MLIC will receive favorable decisions on motions in the future. While most cases brought to date have settled, MLIC intends to continue to defend aggressively against claims based on asbestos exposure, including defending claims at trials. 
  The approximate total number of asbestos personal injury claims pending against MLIC as of the dates indicated, the approximate number of new claims during the years ended on those dates and the approximate total settlement payments made to resolve asbestos personal injury claims at or during those years are set forth in the following table: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Settlement payments represent payments made by MLIC during the year in connection with settlements made in that year and in prior years. Amounts do not include MLIC s attorneys  fees and expenses and do not reflect amounts received from insurance carriers. 
     The number of asbestos cases that may be brought, the aggregate amount of any liability that MLIC may incur, and the total amount paid in settlements in any given year are uncertain and may vary significantly from year to year. 
  The ability of MLIC to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable uncertainty, and the conditions impacting its liability can be dynamic and subject to change. The availability of reliable data is limited and it is difficult to predict the numerous variables that can affect liability estimates, including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against MLIC when exposure to asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. 
    331 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  21.  Contingencies, Commitments and Guarantees (continued) 

   The ability to make estimates regarding ultimate asbestos exposure declines significantly as the estimates relate to years further in the future. In the Company s judgment, there is a future point after which losses cease to be probable and reasonably estimable. It is reasonably possible that the Company s total exposure to asbestos claims may be materially greater than the asbestos liability currently accrued and that future charges to income may be necessary. While the potential future charges could be material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded, based on information currently known by management, management does not believe any such charges are likely to have a material effect on the Company s financial position. 
  The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its consolidated financial statements for all probable and reasonably estimable losses for asbestos-related claims. MLIC s recorded asbestos liability is based on its estimation of the following elements, as informed by the facts presently known to it, its understanding of current law and its past experiences: (i) the probable and reasonably estimable liability for asbestos claims already asserted against MLIC, including claims settled but not yet paid; (ii) the probable and reasonably estimable liability for asbestos claims not yet asserted against MLIC, but which MLIC believes are reasonably probable of assertion; and (iii) the legal defense costs associated with the foregoing claims. Significant assumptions underlying MLIC s analysis of the adequacy of its recorded liability with respect to asbestos litigation include: (i) the number of future claims; (ii) the cost to resolve claims; and (iii) the cost to defend claims. 
  MLIC reevaluates on a quarterly and annual basis its exposure from asbestos litigation, including studying its claims experience, reviewing external literature regarding asbestos claims experience in the United States, assessing relevant trends impacting asbestos liability and considering numerous variables that can affect its asbestos liability exposure on an overall or per claim basis. These variables include bankruptcies of other companies involved in asbestos litigation, legislative and judicial developments, the number of pending claims involving serious disease, the number of new claims filed against it and other defendants and the jurisdictions in which claims are pending. Based upon its reevaluation of its exposure from asbestos litigation, MLIC has updated its liability analysis for asbestos-related claims through December 31, 2014. The frequency and severity of claims relating to asbestos have increased, and MLIC has reflected this in its provisions. Accordingly, MLIC increased its recorded liability for asbestos-related claims to   $690 million   at December 31, 2014. 
  Regulatory Matters 
  The Company receives and responds to subpoenas or other inquiries from state regulators, including state insurance commissioners; state attorneys general or other state governmental authorities; federal regulators, including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC  federal governmental authorities, including congressional committees; and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ), as well as from local and national regulators and government authorities in countries outside the United States where MetLife conducts business, seeking a broad range of information. The issues involved in information requests and regulatory matters vary widely. The Company cooperates in these inquiries. 
  Mortgage Regulatory and Law Enforcement Authorities  Inquiries 
  MetLife, through its affiliate, MetLife Bank, was engaged in the origination, sale and servicing of forward and reverse residential mortgage loans since 2008. In 2012, MetLife Bank exited the business of originating residential mortgage loans. In 2012 and 2013, MetLife Bank sold its residential mortgage servicing portfolios, and in 2013 wound down its mortgage servicing business. In August 2013, MetLife Bank merged with and into MLHL, its former subsidiary, with MLHL as the surviving non-bank entity. 
  In May 2013, MetLife Bank received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice requiring production of documents relating to MetLife Bank s payment of certain foreclosure-related expenses to law firms and business entities affiliated with law firms and relating to MetLife Bank s supervision of such payments, including expenses submitted to the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development ( HUD ) for reimbursement. It is possible that various state or federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities may seek monetary penalties from MLHL relating to foreclosure practices. 
  In April and May 2012, MetLife Bank received two subpoenas issued by the Office of Inspector General for HUD regarding Federal Housing Administration ( FHA ) insured loans. In June and September 2012, MetLife Bank received two Civil Investigative Demands that the U.S. Department of Justice issued as part of a False Claims Act investigation of allegations that MetLife Bank had improperly originated and/or underwritten loans insured by the FHA. Under a February 25, 2015 agreement resolving this investigation, MLHL agreed to pay   $123.5 million   and the U.S. Department of Justice released MLHL from False Claims Act liability for FHA claims filed through August 25, 2014. The Company previously accrued the full amount of the settlement payment in its consolidated financial statements. 
    332 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  21.  Contingencies, Commitments and Guarantees (continued) 

   The inquiries and investigations referred to above, could adversely affect MetLife s reputation or result in significant fines, penalties, equitable remedies or other enforcement actions, and result in significant legal costs in responding to governmental investigations or other litigation. Exiting the MetLife Bank businesses may not protect MetLife from inquiries and investigations relating to residential mortgage servicing and foreclosure activities, or any fines, penalties, equitable remedies or enforcement actions that may result, the costs of responding to any such governmental investigations, or other litigation. Management believes that the Company s consolidated financial statements as a whole will not be materially affected by these regulatory matters. 
  In the Matter of Chemform, Inc. Site, Pompano Beach, Broward County, Florida 
  In July 2010, the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) advised MLIC that it believed payments were due under   two   settlement agreements, known as  Administrative Orders on Consent,  that New England Mutual Life Insurance Company ( New England Mutual ) signed in 1989 and 1992 with respect to the cleanup of a Superfund site in Florida (the  Chemform Site ). The EPA originally contacted MLIC (as successor to New England Mutual) and a third party in 2001, and advised that they owed additional clean-up costs for the Chemform Site. The matter was not resolved at that time. The EPA is requesting payment of an amount under   $1 million   from MLIC and such third party for past costs and an additional amount for future environmental testing costs at the Chemform Site. In September 2012, the EPA, MLIC and the third party executed an Administrative Order on Consent under which MLIC and the third party have agreed to be responsible for certain environmental testing at the Chemform site. The Company estimates that its costs for the environmental testing will not exceed   $100,000  . The September 2012 Administrative Order on Consent does not resolve the EPA s claim for past clean-up costs. The EPA may seek additional costs if the environmental testing identifies issues. The Company estimates that the aggregate cost to resolve this matter will not exceed   $1 million  . 
  New York Licensing Inquiry 
  The Company entered into a consent order with the Department of Financial Services to resolve its inquiry into whether American Life and DelAm conducted business in New York without a license and whether representatives acting on behalf of those companies solicited, sold or negotiated insurance products in New York without a license. The Company entered into a deferred prosecution agreement with the District Attorney, New York County, regarding the same conduct. Pursuant to these agreements, in the first quarter of 2014, the Company paid   $50 million   to the Department of Financial Services and   $10 million   to the District Attorney, New York County. The Department of Financial Services consent order allows certain activities in New York related to American Life and other entities to continue through June 30, 2015. The Company is seeking legislation to allow for such activities to continue beyond that date. The Company is continuing to cooperate with the New York State Office of the Attorney General Taxpayer Protection Bureau as to its inquiry concerning American Life s and DelAm s New York State tax filings. 
  Sales Practices Regulatory Matters 
  Regulatory authorities in a small number of states and FINRA, and occasionally the SEC, have had investigations or inquiries relating to sales of individual life insurance policies or annuities or other products by MLIC, MetLife USA, New England Life Insurance Company ( NELICO ) and General American Life Insurance Company ( GALIC ), and broker-dealer, MetLife Securities, Inc. These investigations often focus on the conduct of particular financial services representatives and the sale of unregistered or unsuitable products or the misuse of client assets. Over the past several years, these and a number of investigations by other regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments and certain other relief, including restitution payments. The Company may continue to resolve investigations in a similar manner. The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its consolidated financial statements for all probable and reasonably estimable losses for these sales practices-related investigations or inquiries. 
  Unclaimed Property Litigation 
  On September 20, 2012, the West Virginia Treasurer filed an action against MLIC in West Virginia state court (  West Virginia ex rel. John D. Perdue v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, Circuit Court of Putnam County, Civil Action No. 12-C-295  ) alleging that the Company violated the West Virginia Uniform Unclaimed Property Act, seeking to compel compliance with the Act, and seeking payment of unclaimed property, interest, and penalties. On November 14, 2012, November 21, 2012, December 28, 2012, and January 9, 2013, the Treasurer filed substantially identical suits against MLI-USA, NELICO, MICC and GALIC, respectively. On December 30, 2013, the court granted defendants  motions to dismiss all of the West Virginia Treasurer s actions. The Treasurer has appealed the dismissal order. 
    333 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  21.  Contingencies, Commitments and Guarantees (continued) 

   City of Westland Police and Fire Retirement System v. MetLife, Inc., et. al. (S.D.N.Y., filed January 12, 2012) 
  Seeking to represent a class of persons who purchased MetLife, Inc. common shares between February 2, 2010, and October 6, 2011, the plaintiff filed a second amended complaint alleging that MetLife, Inc. and several current and former executive officers of MetLife, Inc. violated the Securities Act of 1933 ( Securities Act ), as well as the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder by issuing, or causing MetLife, Inc. to issue, materially false and misleading statements concerning MetLife, Inc. s potential liability for millions of dollars in insurance benefits that should have been paid to beneficiaries or escheated to the states. Plaintiff seeks unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. The defendants intend to defend this action vigorously. 
  City of Birmingham Retirement and Relief System v. MetLife, Inc., et al. (N.D. Alabama, filed in state court on July 5, 2012 and removed to federal court on August 3, 2012) 
  Seeking to represent a class of persons who purchased MetLife, Inc. common equity units in or traceable to a public offering in March 2011, the plaintiff filed an action alleging that MetLife, Inc., certain current and former directors and executive officers of MetLife, Inc., and various underwriters violated several provisions of the Securities Act related to the filing of the registration statement by issuing, or causing MetLife, Inc. to issue, materially false and misleading statements and/or omissions concerning MetLife, Inc. s potential liability for millions of dollars in insurance benefits that should have been paid to beneficiaries or escheated to the states. Plaintiff seeks unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. Defendants removed this action to federal court, and plaintiff has moved to remand the action to state court. The magistrate judge recommended granting the motion to remand to state court and the defendants have objected to that recommendation. The defendants intend to defend this action vigorously. 
  Derivative Actions and Demands 
  Seeking to sue derivatively on behalf of MetLife, Inc.,   two   shareholders commenced separate actions in federal court against members of the MetLife, Inc. Board of Directors, alleging that they breached their fiduciary and other duties to the Company. Plaintiffs allege that the defendants failed to ensure that the Company complied with state unclaimed property laws and to ensure that the Company accurately reported its earnings. Plaintiffs allege that because of the defendants  breaches of duty, MetLife, Inc. has incurred damage to its reputation and has suffered other unspecified damages. The two actions   (Mallon v. Kandarian, et al. (S.D.N.Y., filed March 28, 2012  ) and   Martino v. Kandarian, et al. (S.D.N.Y., filed April 19, 2012))   have been consolidated and stayed pending further order of the court. The defendants intend to continue to defend these actions vigorously. 
  Total Control Accounts Litigation 
  MLIC is a defendant in lawsuits related to its use of retained asset accounts, known as Total Control Accounts ( TCA ), as a settlement option for death benefits. 
  Keife, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (D. Nev., filed in state court on July 30, 2010 and removed to federal court on September 7, 2010); and Simon v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (D. Nev., filed November 3, 2011) 
  These putative class action lawsuits, which have been consolidated, raise breach of contract claims arising from MLIC s use of the TCA to pay life insurance benefits under the Federal Employees  Group Life Insurance program. On March 8, 2013, the court granted MLIC s motion for summary judgment. Plaintiffs have appealed that decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. 
  Owens v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (N.D. Ga., filed April 17, 2014) 
  This putative class action lawsuit alleges that MLIC s use of the TCA as the settlement option for life insurance benefits under some group life insurance policies violates MLIC s fiduciary duties under ERISA. As damages, plaintiff seeks disgorgement of profits that MLIC realized on accounts owned by members of the putative class. MLIC moved to dismiss the complaint and intends to defend this action vigorously. 
    334 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  21.  Contingencies, Commitments and Guarantees (continued) 

   Other Litigation 
  McGuire v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (E.D. Mich., filed February 22, 2012) 
  This lawsuit was filed by the fiduciary for the Union Carbide Employees  Pension Plan and alleges that MLIC, which issued annuity contracts to fund some of the benefits the Plan provides, engaged in transactions that ERISA prohibits and violated duties under ERISA and federal common law by determining that no dividends were payable with respect to the contracts from and after 1999. On August 8, 2014, the court denied the parties  motion for summary judgment. The court has not yet set a new trial date.  
  Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada Indemnity Claim 
  In 2006, Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada ( Sun Life ), as successor to the purchaser of MLIC s Canadian operations, filed a lawsuit in Toronto, seeking a declaration that MLIC remains liable for  market conduct claims  related to certain individual life insurance policies sold by MLIC and that were transferred to Sun Life. Sun Life had asked that the court require MLIC to indemnify Sun Life for these claims pursuant to indemnity provisions in the sale agreement for the sale of MLIC s Canadian operations entered into in June of 1998. In January 2010, the court found that Sun Life had given timely notice of its claim for indemnification but, because it found that Sun Life had not yet incurred an indemnifiable loss, granted MLIC s motion for summary judgment. Both parties appealed but subsequently agreed to withdraw the appeal and consider the indemnity claim through arbitration. In September 2010, Sun Life notified MLIC that a purported class action lawsuit was filed against Sun Life in Toronto, Fehr v. Sun Life Assurance Co. (Super. Ct., Ontario, September 2010), alleging sales practices claims regarding the same individual policies sold by MLIC and transferred to Sun Life. An amended class action complaint in that case was served on Sun Life in May 2013, again without naming MLIC as a party. On August 30, 2011, Sun Life notified MLIC that a purported class action lawsuit was filed against Sun Life in Vancouver, Alamwala v. Sun Life Assurance Co. (Sup. Ct., British Columbia, August 2011), alleging sales practices claims regarding certain of the same policies sold by MLIC and transferred to Sun Life. Sun Life contends that MLIC is obligated to indemnify Sun Life for some or all of the claims in these lawsuits. These sales practices cases against Sun Life are ongoing and the Company is unable to estimate the reasonably possible loss or range of loss arising from this litigation. 
  C-Mart, Inc. v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., et al. (S.D. Fla., January 10, 2013); Cadenasso v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., et al. (N.D. Cal., November 26, 2013, subsequently transferred to S.D. Fla. 2013); and Fauley v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., et al. (Circuit Court of the 19th Judicial Circuit, Lake County, Ill., July 3, 2014). 
  Plaintiffs filed these lawsuits against defendants, including MLIC and a former MetLife financial services representative, alleging that the defendants sent unsolicited fax advertisements to plaintiff and others in violation of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, as amended by the Junk Fax Prevention Act, 47 U.S.C.   227. The C-Mart and Cadenasso cases were voluntarily dismissed. In the Fauley case, the court in Illinois preliminarily approved a settlement under which MLIC has agreed to pay up to   $23 million   to resolve claims as to fax ads sent between August 23, 2008 and the date of the preliminary approval in August 2014. The Fauley court also certified a nationwide settlement class and will hold a final approval hearing. 
  Robainas v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. and MetLife, Inc. (S.D.N.Y., December 16, 2014); International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers District Lodge 15 v. Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. (E.D.N.Y., February 2, 2015). 
  Plaintiffs filed these putative class action lawsuits on behalf of themselves and all persons and entities who, directly or indirectly, purchased, renewed or paid premiums on life insurance policies issued by MLIC from 2009 through 2014 (the  Policies ). The complaints allege that MLIC inadequately disclosed in its statutory annual statements that certain reinsurance transactions with affiliated reinsurance companies were collateralized using  contractual parental guarantees,  and thereby allegedly misrepresented its financial condition and the adequacy of its reserves. The lawsuits seek recovery under Section 4226 of the New York Insurance Law of a statutory penalty in the amount of the premiums paid for the Policies. MetLife intends to defend these actions vigorously. 
  MetLife, Inc. v. Financial Stability Oversight Council (D. D.C., January 13, 2015). 
  MetLife, Inc. filed this action in federal court seeking to overturn the FSOC s designation of MetLife, Inc. as a non-bank SIFI. The suit is brought under the section of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act providing that a company designated as a non-bank SIFI may petition the federal courts for review, and seeks an order requiring that the final determination be rescinded. 
    335 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  21.  Contingencies, Commitments and Guarantees (continued) 

   Sales Practices Claims 
  Over the past several years, the Company has faced numerous claims, including class action lawsuits, alleging improper marketing or sales of individual life insurance policies, annuities, mutual funds or other products. Some of the current cases seek substantial damages, including punitive and treble damages and attorneys  fees. The Company continues to defend vigorously against the claims in these matters. The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its consolidated financial statements for all probable and reasonably estimable losses for sales practices matters. 
  Summary 
  Putative or certified class action litigation and other litigation and claims and assessments against the Company, in addition to those discussed previously and those otherwise provided for in the Company s consolidated financial statements, have arisen in the course of the Company s business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its activities as an insurer, mortgage lending bank, employer, investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations concerning the Company s compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and regulations. 
  It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of all pending investigations and legal proceedings. In some of the matters referred to previously, very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, are sought. Although in light of these considerations it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a material effect upon the Company s financial position, based on information currently known by the Company s management, in its opinion, the outcomes of such pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to have such an effect. However, given the large and/or indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material effect on the Company s consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or annual periods. 
    Insolvency Assessments 
  Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to transact business require insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. In addition, Japan has established the Life Insurance Policyholders Protection Corporation of Japan as a contingency to protect policyholders against the insolvency of life insurance companies in Japan through assessments to companies licensed to provide life insurance. 
  Assets and liabilities held for insolvency assessments were as follows: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    The Company holds a receivable from the seller of a prior acquisition in accordance with the purchase agreement. 
       336 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  21.  Contingencies, Commitments and Guarantees (continued) 

   Commitments 
  Leases 
  The Company, as lessee, has entered into various lease and sublease agreements for office space, information technology, aircrafts, automobiles, and other equipment. Future minimum gross rental payments relating to these lease arrangements are as follows: 

Total minimum rentals to be received in the future under non-cancelable subleases are   $112 million   as of   December 31, 2014  . Operating lease expense was   $347 million  ,   $372 million   and   $380 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 
    Mortgage Loan Commitments 
  The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loan commitments. The amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were   $4.0 billion   and   $3.4 billion   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  Commitments to Fund Partnership Investments, Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private Corporate Bond Investments 
  The Company commits to fund partnership investments and to lend funds under bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. The amounts of these unfunded commitments were   $5.3 billion   at both December 31,   2014   and   2013  . 
    Guarantees 
  In the normal course of its business, the Company has provided certain indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties such that it may be required to make payments now or in the future. In the context of acquisition, disposition, investment and other transactions, the Company has provided indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax, environmental and other specific liabilities and other indemnities and guarantees that are triggered by, among other things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by the Company. In addition, in the normal course of business, the Company provides indemnifications to counterparties in contracts with triggers similar to the foregoing, as well as for certain other liabilities, such as third-party lawsuits. These obligations are often subject to time limitations that vary in duration, including contractual limitations and those that arise by operation of law, such as applicable statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum potential obligation under the indemnities and guarantees is subject to a contractual limitation ranging from   less than $1 million   to   $800 million  , with a cumulative maximum of   $1.5 billion  , while in other cases such limitations are not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations are not subject to limitations, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could become due under these guarantees in the future. Management believes that it is unlikely the Company will have to make any material payments under these indemnities, guarantees, or commitments. 
  In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers as provided in its charters and by-laws. Also, the Company indemnifies its agents for liabilities incurred as a result of their representation of the Company s interests. Since these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could become due under these indemnities in the future. 
  The Company has also minimum fund yield requirements on certain international pension funds in accordance with local laws. Since these guarantees are not subject to limitation with respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could become due under these guarantees in the future. 
    337 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 
  21.  Contingencies, Commitments and Guarantees (continued) 

   The Company s recorded liabilities were   $4 million   and   $5 million   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively, for indemnities, guarantees and commitments. 
    22. Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited) 
    The unaudited quarterly results of operations for   2014   and   2013   are summarized in the table below:   

    338 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued) 

   23. Subsequent Events 
    Common Stock Repurchases 
  In 2015, through February 23, 2015, MetLife, Inc. repurchased   15,081,322   shares of its common stock in the open market for   $739 million  . 
  Dividends 
  Preferred Stock 
  On February 18, 2015, MetLife, Inc. announced dividends of   $0.250   per share, for a total of   $6 million  , on its Series A preferred shares, and   $0.406   per share, for a total of   $24 million  , on its Series B preferred shares, subject to the final confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in the Series A and Series B preferred shares, which the Company anticipates will be made on or about March 5, 2015. Both dividends will be payable March 16, 2015 to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2015. 
  Common Stock 
  On January 6, 2015, MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors declared a first quarter 2015 common stock dividend of   $0.35   per share payable on March 13, 2015 to shareholders of record as of February 6, 2015. The Company estimates the aggregate dividend payment to be   $394 million  . 

339 

       Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc. 
  Schedule I 
  Consolidated Summary of Investments   
  Other Than Investments in Related Parties 
  December 31,   2014 
  (In millions) 
   
 ______________ 
           (1) 
    The Company s FVO and trading securities portfolio is mainly comprised of fixed maturity and equity securities, including mutual funds and, to a lesser extent, short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents. Cost or amortized cost for fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans held-for-investment represents original cost reduced by repayments, valuation allowances and impairments from other-than-temporary declines in estimated fair value that are charged to earnings and adjusted for amortization of premiums or accretion of discounts; for equity securities, cost represents original cost reduced by impairments from other-than-temporary declines in estimated fair value; for real estate, cost represents original cost reduced by impairments and adjusted for valuation allowances and depreciation; for real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests, cost represents original cost reduced for impairments or original cost adjusted for equity in earnings and distributions. 
       340 

       Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc. 
  Schedule II 
  Condensed Financial Information 
  (Parent Company Only) 
  December 31,   2014   and   2013 
  (In millions, except share and per share data) 

See accompanying notes to the condensed financial information. 
    341 

       Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc. 
  Schedule II 
  Condensed Financial Information   (Continued) 
  (Parent Company Only) 
  For the Years Ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012    
  (In millions) 

See accompanying notes to the condensed financial information. 
    
    342 

       Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc. 
  Schedule II 
  Condensed Financial Information   (Continued) 
  (Parent Company Only) 
  For the Years Ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012 
  (In millions) 

343 

       Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc. 
  Schedule II 
  Condensed Financial Information   (Continued) 
  (Parent Company Only) 
  For the Years Ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012 
  (In millions) 

344 

       Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc. 
  Schedule II 
  Notes to the Condensed Financial Information 
  (Parent Company Only) 
    
    1. Basis of Presentation 
    The condensed financial information of MetLife, Inc. (the  Parent Company ) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries and the notes thereto (the  Consolidated Financial Statements ). These condensed unconsolidated financial statements reflect the results of operations, financial position and cash flows for MetLife, Inc. Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. 
  The preparation of these condensed unconsolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to adopt accounting policies and make certain estimates and assumptions. The most important of these estimates and assumptions relate to the fair value measurements, the accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets and the provision for potential losses that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax audits, which may affect the amounts reported in the condensed unconsolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from these estimates. 
    2. Investment in Subsidiaries 
    In December 2014, MetLife, Inc. accrued   $350 million   and   $95 million   in capital contributions payable to MRV and MRD, respectively, which were included in payables to subsidiaries at December 31, 2014. The payables were settled for cash in February 2015. See Note 6.  
  In 2014, in connection with the Mergers, MetLife, Inc. recorded   $5.7 billion   in non-cash returns of capital from subsidiaries, including   $2.0 billion   of Exeter s preferred stock (discussed below), and correspondingly recorded   $5.7 billion   of non-cash capital contributions to subsidiaries. See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the Mergers. 
  During 2012, MetLife, Inc. assumed debt from Exeter as described in Note   5  , in exchange for   $2.0 billion   of preferred stock of Exeter. In September 2012, MetLife, Inc. subscribed to   75,000   shares of Exeter s Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Shares which bore an annual rate of   7.69%   that was payable semi-annually. In December 2012, MetLife, Inc. subscribed to   125,000   shares of Exeter s Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Shares which bore an annual rate of   7.75%   that was payable semi-annually. In November 2014, upon the consummation of the Mergers, the   $2.0 billion   of outstanding preferred stock of Exeter was canceled. Consequently, MetLife, Inc. s preferred capital stock investment was added to its common capital stock investment in MetLife USA. 
    3. Loans to Subsidiaries 
    MetLife, Inc. lends funds, as necessary, to its subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital requirements. Payments of interest and principal on surplus notes of regulated subsidiaries, which are subordinate to all other obligations of the issuing company, may be made only with the prior approval of the insurance department of the state of domicile. 
  In December 2014, American Life issued a   $100 million   surplus note to MetLife, Inc. The surplus note bears interest at a fixed rate of   3.17%  , payable semi-annually and matures in   June 2020  . 
   In August 2014, American Life issued a   $120 million   short-term note to MetLife, Inc. which was repaid in December 2014. In February 2014, American Life issued a   $150 million   short-term note to MetLife, Inc. which was repaid in June 2014. Both short-term notes bore interest at   six-month LIBOR plus 0.875%  . 
  In December 2013, MRD issued a   $350 million   surplus note to MetLife, Inc. due   December 2033  . The surplus note bears interest at a fixed rate of   6.00%   payable semi-annually. MetLife, Inc. issued a   $350 million   senior note to MRD in exchange for the surplus note (see Note 4). 
  In July 2013, MetLife Ireland Treasury Limited ( MITL ) borrowed the Chilean peso equivalent of   $1.5 billion   from MetLife, Inc., which is due   July 2023  . The loan bears interest at a fixed rate of   8.5%  , payable annually. In each of December 2014, June 2014, and December 2013, MITL made a payment of the Chilean peso equivalent of   $493 million  ,   $69 million   and   $245 million  , respectively. At December 31, 2014, the remaining balance on the loan was   $509 million  . 
  In December 2012, MRD issued a   $750 million   surplus note to MetLife, Inc. due   September 2032  . The surplus note bears interest at a fixed rate of   5.13%   payable semi-annually. MetLife, Inc. issued a   $750 million   senior note to MRD in exchange for the surplus note (see Note 4). 
  Interest income earned on loans to subsidiaries of   $155 million  ,   $103 million   and   $1 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, is included in net investment income. 
    345 

       Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Schedule II 
  Notes to the Condensed Financial Information   (Continued) 
  (Parent Company Only) 

   4. Long-term Debt 
    Long-term debt outstanding was as follows: 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Range of interest rates and weighted average interest rates are for the year ended December 31,   2014  . 
     See Note   12   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the issuances of senior notes - unaffiliated. 
  The aggregate maturities of long-term debt at December 31,   2014   for the next five years and thereafter are   $1.3 billion   in 2015,   $1.7 billion   in 2016,   $1.0 billion   in 2017,   $1.0 billion   in 2018,   $1.8 billion   in 2019 and   $12.1 billion   thereafter. 
  Senior Notes   Affiliated 
  In December 2013, MetLife, Inc. issued a   $350 million   senior note to MRD due   December 2033  . The senior note bears interest at a fixed rate of   5.10%  , payable semi-annually. MRD issued a   $350 million   surplus note to MetLife, Inc. in exchange for the senior note. 
  In December 2012, Exeter reassigned   $1.25 billion   of its affiliated senior notes to MetLife, Inc. These senior notes included (i) a   $250 million   senior note maturing on   September 30, 2016   and bearing interest at a fixed rate of   7.44%  , payable semi-annually, (ii) a   $500 million   senior note maturing on   July 15, 2021   and bearing interest at a fixed rate of   5.64%  , payable semi-annually, and (iii) a   $500 million   senior note maturing on   December 16, 2021   and bearing interest at a fixed rate of   5.86%  , payable semi-annually. MetLife, Inc. received, in exchange for the assumption of this affiliated debt,   $1.25 billion   of preferred stock of Exeter. In November 2014, upon the consummation of the Mergers, the outstanding preferred stock of Exeter was canceled. Consequently, MetLife, Inc. s preferred capital stock investment was added to its common capital stock investment in MetLife USA. 
  In December 2012, MetLife, Inc. issued a   $750 million   senior note to MRD due   September 30, 2032  . The senior note bears interest at a fixed rate of   4.21%  , payable semi-annually. MRD issued a   $750 million   surplus note to MetLife, Inc. in exchange for the senior note. 
  In September 2012, Exeter reassigned   $750 million   of its affiliated senior notes to MetLife, Inc. MetLife, Inc. received, in exchange for the assumption of this affiliated debt,   $750 million   of preferred stock of Exeter. In November 2014, upon the consummation of the Mergers, the outstanding preferred stock of Exeter was canceled. Consequently, MetLife, Inc. s preferred capital stock investment was added to its common capital stock investment in MetLife USA. On September 30, 2012,   $250 million   of the assumed senior notes matured and, subsequently, in October 2012, MetLife, Inc. issued a   $250 million   senior note to MLIC. The   $250 million   senior note matures in   October 2019   and bears interest at a fixed rate of   3.57%  , payable semi-annually. The remaining   $500 million   senior note matured and, subsequently, in   June 2014  , MetLife, Inc. issued a new   $500 million   senior note to MLIC. The   $500 million   senior note matures in   June 2019   and bears interest at a fixed rate of   3.54%  , payable semi-annually. 
    346 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Schedule II 
  Notes to the Condensed Financial Information   (Continued) 
  (Parent Company Only) 
  4. Long-term Debt (continued) 

   Interest Expense 
  Interest expense was comprised of the following: 

See Note   13   and   14   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the collateral financing arrangements and junior subordinated debt securities. 
    5. Support Agreements 
    MetLife, Inc. is party to various capital support commitments and guarantees with certain of its subsidiaries. Under these arrangements, MetLife, Inc. has agreed to cause each such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels or has guaranteed certain contractual obligations. 
  In October 2013, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed two   2.47%   two-year notes totaling   $500 million   issued by Exeter to its affiliates, MICC and MLI-USA. In November 2014, upon consummation of the Mergers, the notes were canceled. Consequently, the related MetLife, Inc. guarantee is no longer in effect. 
  In January 2013, MetLife, Inc. entered into an 18-month agreement with MetLife Bank to lend up to   $500 million   to MetLife Bank on a revolving basis. In February 2013, the agreement was amended to reduce borrowing capacity to   $100 million  . MetLife Bank's rights and obligations under the agreement succeeded to MLHL upon the merger of MetLife Bank with and into MLHL. On October 29, 2013, MetLife, Inc. and MLHL agreed to terminate the agreement. There were   no   loans outstanding at such date. 
  In July 2012, in connection with an operating agreement with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ) governing MetLife Bank operations during its wind-down process, MetLife Bank and MetLife, Inc. entered into a capital support agreement with the OCC and MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank entered into an indemnification and capital maintenance agreement under which agreements MetLife, Inc. provided financial and other support to MetLife Bank to ensure that MetLife Bank could wind down its operations in a safe and sound manner. Pursuant to the agreements, MetLife, Inc. was required to ensure that MetLife Bank meets or exceeds certain minimum capital and liquidity requirements and make indemnification payments to MetLife Bank in connection with MetLife Bank s obligation under the April 2011 consent decree between MetLife Bank and the OCC. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, MetLife, Inc. invested   $21 million   and   $34 million  , respectively, in cash in MetLife Bank in connection with these agreements. On August 30, 2013, MetLife Bank merged with and into MLHL, with MLHL as the surviving, non-bank entity. The obligations of MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank under the capital support agreement with the OCC and the obligations of MetLife, Inc. under the indemnification and capital maintenance agreement ceased in all material respects upon the merger of MetLife Bank with and into MLHL. 
  MetLife, Inc., in connection with MRD s reinsurance of certain universal life and term life risks, entered into capital maintenance agreements pursuant to which MetLife, Inc. agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause the first and second protected cells of MRD to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of each such protected cell s company action level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes. In addition, MetLife, Inc. expects to enter into an agreement with the Delaware Department of Insurance to increase such capital maintenance threshold to 300% of each such protected cell s company action level RBC, in the event of specified downgrades in the senior unsecured debt ratings of MetLife, Inc. 
    347 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Schedule II 
  Notes to the Condensed Financial Information   (Continued) 
  (Parent Company Only) 
  5. Support Agreements (continued) 

   MetLife, Inc. guarantees the obligations of its subsidiary, DelAm, under a stop loss reinsurance agreement with RGA Reinsurance (Barbados) Inc. ( RGARe ), pursuant to which RGARe retrocedes to DelAm a portion of the whole life medical insurance business that RGARe assumed from American Life on behalf of its Japan operations. Also, MetLife, Inc. guarantees the obligations of its subsidiary, Missouri Reinsurance, Inc. ( MoRe ), under a retrocession agreement with RGARe, pursuant to which MoRe retrocedes certain group term life insurance liabilities and a portion of the closed block liabilities associated with industrial life and ordinary life insurance policies that it assumed from MLIC. 
  Prior to the sale in April 2011 of its   50%   interest in Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Co., Ltd. ( MSI MetLife ) to a third party, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed the obligations of its subsidiary, Exeter, under a reinsurance agreement with MSI MetLife, under which Exeter reinsured variable annuity business written by MSI MetLife. This guarantee remained in place following the April 2011 disposition of MetLife, Inc. s interest in MSI MetLife, now known as Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Company Limited ( Mitsui ). In November 2014, in order to remove foreign reinsurance risks from Exeter prior to the Mergers, Mitsui recaptured this business from Exeter and then reinsured it with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Bermuda, Ltd. ( MrB ), a Bermuda insurance affiliate and an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of MetLife, Inc. The MetLife, Inc. guarantee of Exeter s former reinsurance obligations to Mitsui was replaced by a MetLife, Inc. guarantee of MrB s reinsurance obligations to Mitsui. 
  MetLife, Inc. had guaranteed the obligations of Exeter in an aggregate amount up to   $1.0 billion  , under a reinsurance agreement with MetLife Europe Limited ( MEL ), under which Exeter reinsured the guaranteed living benefits and guaranteed death benefits associated with certain unit-linked annuity contracts issued by MEL. In November 2014, in order to remove foreign reinsurance risks from Exeter prior to the Mergers, MEL recaptured this business from Exeter and then reinsured it with MrB. The MetLife, Inc. guarantee of Exeter s former reinsurance obligations to MEL was replaced by a MetLife, Inc. guarantee of MrB s reinsurance obligations to MEL. 
  MetLife, Inc., in connection with MRV s reinsurance of certain universal life and term life insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take necessary action to cause the three protected cells of MRV to maintain total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 200% of each such protected cell s authorized control level RBC, as defined in Vermont state insurance statutes. See Note   12   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MRC s reinsurance of a portion of the liabilities associated with the closed block, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to make capital contributions, if necessary, to MRC so that MRC may at all times maintain its total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 200% of the company action level RBC, as defined in South Carolina state insurance statutes as in effect on the date of determination or December 31, 2007, whichever calculation produces the greater capital requirement, or as otherwise required by the South Carolina Department of Insurance. See Note   13   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  MetLife, Inc., in connection with the collateral financing arrangement associated with MRSC s reinsurance of ULSG, committed to the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary action to cause MRSC to maintain the greater of capital and surplus of   $250,000   or total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 100% of authorized control level RBC, as defined in South Carolina state insurance statutes. See Note   13   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  MetLife, Inc. has a net worth maintenance agreement with its insurance subsidiary, First MetLife Investors Insurance Company ( First MetLife ). Under this agreement, as amended, MetLife, Inc. agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause First MetLife to have capital and surplus of   $10 million  , total adjusted capital in an amount that is equal to or greater than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by applicable state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet its current obligations on a timely basis. A similar net worth maintenance agreement between MetLife, Inc. and its former subsidiary, MLIIC, was terminated in accordance with its terms following the Mergers. 
    348 

     Table of Contents  
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Schedule II 
  Notes to the Condensed Financial Information   (Continued) 
  (Parent Company Only) 
  5. Support Agreements (continued) 

   MetLife, Inc. guarantees obligations arising from derivatives of the following subsidiaries: MrB, MetLife International Holdings, Inc. and MetLife Worldwide Holdings, Inc. Prior to the Mergers, MetLife, Inc. guaranteed obligations arising from derivatives of Exeter. These subsidiaries are exposed to various risks relating to their ongoing business operations, including interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate, credit and equity market. These subsidiaries use a variety of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivatives. Further, all of the subsidiaries  derivatives are subject to industry standard netting agreements and collateral agreements that limit the unsecured portion of any open derivative position. On a net counterparty basis at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , derivative transactions with positive mark-to-market values (in-the-money) were   $499 million   and   $568 million  , respectively, and derivative transactions with negative mark-to-market values (out-of-the-money) were   $102 million   and   $734 million  , respectively. To secure the obligations represented by the out of-the-money transactions, the subsidiaries had provided collateral to their counterparties with an estimated fair value of   $96 million   and   $651 million   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Accordingly, unsecured derivative liabilities guaranteed by MetLife, Inc. were   $6 million   and   $83 million   at December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  MetLife, Inc. also guarantees the obligations of certain of its subsidiaries under committed facilities with third-party banks. See Note   12   of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    6. Subsequent Events 
    On February 24, 2015, MetLife, Inc. settled, in cash,   $445 million   in payables to subsidiaries (see Note 2). 
    349 

       Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc. 
  Schedule III 
  Consolidated Supplementary Insurance Information 
  December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012 
  (In millions) 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Amounts are included within the future policy benefits, other policy-related balances and policyholder dividend obligation column. 
              (2) 
    Includes premiums received in advance. 
       350 

       Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc. 
  Schedule III 
  Consolidated Supplementary Insurance Information   (Continued) 
  December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012 
  (In millions) 

______________ 
           (1) 
    See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the MAL divestiture. 
              (2) 
    Includes other expenses and policyholder dividends, excluding amortization of DAC and VOBA charged to other expenses. 
       351 

       Table of Contents  

   MetLife, Inc. 
  Schedule IV 
  Consolidated Reinsurance 
  December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012 
  (In millions) 

______________ 
           (1) 
    Includes annuities. 
       352 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
  None. 
    Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 
  Management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective. 
  There were no changes to the Company s internal control over financial reporting as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) during the quarter ended December 31,   2014   that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 
  Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
  Management of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. In fulfilling this responsibility, estimates and judgments by management are required to assess the expected benefits and related costs of control procedures. The objectives of internal control include providing management with reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or disposition, and that transactions are executed in accordance with management s authorization and recorded properly to permit the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. 
  Management has documented and evaluated the effectiveness of the internal control of the Company at December 31,   2014   pertaining to financial reporting in accordance with the criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework   (  2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
  In the opinion of management, MetLife, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting at December 31,   2014  . 
  Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedules included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,   2014  . The Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on their audit of the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedules is included on page 179. 
  Report of the Company s Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  The Company s independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte   Touche LLP, has issued their report on their audit of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting which is set forth below. 
    353 

       Table of Contents  

   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
  MetLife, Inc. 
  New York, New York 
  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31,   2014  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework   (  2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2014  , based on the criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules as of and for the year ended December 31,   2014  , of the Company and our report dated February 26,   2015   expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules. 
    
  /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
  New York, New York 
  February 26,   2015    
    354 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 9B. Other Information 
  None.  
    355 

       Table of Contents  

   Part III 
    Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
  The information called for by this Item pertaining to Directors is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Proposal 1   Election of Directors,   Corporate Governance   Board and Committee Information  and  Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in MetLife, Inc. s definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 28,   2015  , to be filed by MetLife, Inc. with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the year ended December 31,   2014   (the  2015 Proxy Statement ). 
  The information called for by this Item pertaining to Executive Officers appears in  Business   Executive Officers  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and  Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in the   2015   Proxy Statement. 
  The Company has adopted the MetLife Financial Management Code of Professional Conduct (the  Financial Management Code ), a  code of ethics  as defined under the rules of the SEC, that applies to MetLife, Inc. s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and all professionals in finance and finance-related departments. In addition, the Company has adopted the Directors  Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the  Directors  Code ) which applies to all members of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors, including the Chief Executive Officer, and the Employee Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (together with the Financial Management Code and the Directors  Code, collectively, the  Ethics Codes ), which applies to all employees of the Company, including MetLife, Inc. s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer. The Ethics Codes are available on the Company s website at http://www.metlife.com/about/corporate-profile/corporate-governance/corporate-conduct/index.html. The Company intends to satisfy its disclosure obligations under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K by posting information about amendments to, or waivers from a provision of, the Ethics Codes that apply to MetLife, Inc. s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer on the Company s website at the address given above. 
    Item 11. Executive Compensation 
  The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Corporate Governance   Board and Committee Information,   Corporate Governance   Director Compensation in 2014,   Compensation Committee Report,   Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Summary Compensation Table,   Grants of Plan-Based Awards in   2014  ,   Outstanding Equity Awards at   2014   Fiscal Year-End,   Option Exercises and Stock Vested in   2014  ,   Pension Benefits at 2014 Fiscal Year-End,   Nonqualified Deferred Compensation at 2014 Fiscal Year-End  and  Potential Payments upon Termination or Change-in-Control at 2014 Fiscal Year-End  in the   2015   Proxy Statement. 
    Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
  The information called for by this Item pertaining to ownership of shares of MetLife, Inc. s common stock ( Shares ) is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers  and  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners  in the 2015 Proxy Statement.  
  The following table provides information, at December 31, 2014, regarding MetLife, Inc. s equity compensation plans: 
  Equity Compensation Plan Information at December 31, 2014 

______________ 
    356 

     Table of Contents  

            (1)  
    Includes the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (the  2000 Stock Incentive Plan ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan ( 2000 Directors Stock Plan ), each of which was approved by MLIC, the sole shareholder of MetLife at the time of approval. The policyholders of MLIC entitled to vote on its plan of reorganization (the  Plan of Reorganization ) approved the Plan of Reorganization, which included both the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan and the 2000 Directors Stock Plan. The policyholders entitled to so vote received a summary description of each plan, including the applicable limits on the number of Shares available for issuance under each plan. Also includes the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  2005 Stock and Incentive Plan ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan (the  2005 Director Stock Plan ), which were approved by MetLife, Inc. security holders. 

Stock Options were awarded under the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan and 2005 Stock and Incentive Plan. Restricted Stock Units and Performance Shares were awarded under the 2005 Stock and Incentive Plan. 
  The maximum performance factor for Performance Shares granted in 2012 is 200%. The maximum performance factor for Performance Shares granted in 2013 and 2014 is 175%. The number of Performance Shares outstanding as of December 31, 2014 at target (100%) performance factor was 4,511,514. 
  Deferred Shares are Shares that have become payable from awards under any plan, but that remain unpaid because payment has been deferred. 
  For a general description of how the number of Shares paid out on account of Performance Shares and Restricted Stock Units is determined, and the vesting periods applicable to Performance Shares and Restricted Stock Units, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
           (3) 
    Column (b) reflects the weighted average exercise price of all Stock Options under any plan that, as of December 31, 2014, had been granted but not forfeited, expired, or exercised. Performance Shares, Restricted Stock Units, and Deferred Shares are not included in determining the weighted average in column (b) because they have no exercise price. 
                       Shares authorized under the 2000 Stock Incentive Plan that were either (i) not covered by awards or (ii) recovered by forfeiture of awards (note: Share awards to Directors under the 2000 Directors Stock Plan were made under a separate Share authorization that neither reduce the number of Shares available for awards under any other plan, nor are available for awards under any other plan) 
    13,379,774 
      
      Shares originally available for issuance under the 2005 Stock and Incentive Plan  
    68,000,000 
      
      Shares originally available for issuance under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan  
    2,000,000 
      
      Less: Shares issued under the 2005 Stock and Incentive Plan and the 2005 Director Stock Plan since their effective date (April 15, 2005) or from previously Deferred Shares, calculated using the Full-Value Share Award Factor, as explained below, as applicable  
    (21,113,569 
    ) 
      Less: Shares that will or may be issued for outstanding Stock Options from column (a)  
    (26,078,927 
    ) 
      Less: Shares that will or may be issued for outstanding Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares (assuming future payout at maximum performance factor), or Deferred Shares from column (a), multiplied by Full-Value Share Award Factor, as explained below  
    (16,521,111 
    ) 
      Shares remaining available for future issuance under the 2005 Stock and Incentive Plan and 2005 Director Stock Plan or a successor to either plan 
    19,666,167 

Each Share that will or may be issued in connection with awards granted under the 2005 Stock and Incentive Plan other than Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights (such as Shares payable on account of Performance Shares or Restricted Stock Units) reduces the number of Shares remaining for issuance under that plan, or a successor plan, by 1.179 (the  Full-Value Share Award Factor ). Each Share that will or may be issued in connection with a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right granted under the 2005 Stock and Incentive Plan reduces the number of Shares remaining for issuance under the 2005 Stock and Incentive Plan, or a successor plan, by 1.0. 
    357 

     Table of Contents  

   Under both the 2005 Stock and Incentive Plan and the 2005 Director Stock Plan, in the event of a corporate event or transaction (including, but not limited to, a change in the Shares or the capitalization of MetLife) such as a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation, stock dividend, extraordinary dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of MetLife, combination of securities, exchange of securities, dividend in kind, or other like change in capital structure or distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to shareholders of MetLife, or any similar corporate event or transaction, the appropriate committee of the Board of Directors of MetLife, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of participants  rights under the applicable plan, shall in its sole discretion substitute or adjust, as applicable, the number and kind of Shares that may be issued under that plan and shall adjust the number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding awards. Any Shares related to awards under either plan which: (i) terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of Shares; (ii) are settled in cash either in lieu of Shares or otherwise; or (iii) are exchanged with the appropriate committee s permission for awards not involving Shares, are available again for grant under the applicable plan. If the option price of any Stock Option granted under either plan or the tax withholding requirements with respect to any award granted under either plan is satisfied by tendering Shares to MetLife (by either actual delivery or by attestation), or if a Stock Appreciation Right is exercised, only the number of Shares issued, net of the Shares tendered, if any, will be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of Shares available for issuance under that plan. The maximum number of Shares available for issuance under either plan shall not be reduced to reflect any dividends or dividend equivalents that are reinvested into additional Shares or credited as additional Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, or Stock-Based Awards. 
  For a description of the kinds of awards that may be made under the 2005 Stock and Incentive Plan and 2005 Director Stock Plan, see Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
  The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Corporate Governance   Procedures for Reviewing Related Person Transactions,   Corporate Governance   Related Person Transactions  and  Corporate Governance   Board and Committee Information   Composition and Independence of the Board of Directors  in the 2015 Proxy Statement. 
    Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
  The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled  Proposal 3   Ratification of Appointment of the Independent Auditor  in the 2015 Proxy Statement. 
    358 

       Table of Contents  

   Part IV 
    Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
  The following documents are filed as part of this report: 
  1. Financial Statements 
  The financial statements are listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements, Notes and Schedules on page 178. 
  2. Financial Statement Schedules 
  The financial statement schedules are listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements, Notes and Schedules on page 178. 
  3. Exhibits 
  The exhibits are listed in the Exhibit Index which begins on page E-1. 
    
    359 

       Table of Contents  

   Signatures 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
  February 26, 2015 
                   METLIFE, INC. 

By 
      
    /s/ Steven A. Kandarian 

Name: Steven A. Kandarian 

Title: Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 

360 

       Table of Contents  

                        Signature 
      
    Title 
      
    Date 

/s/ Steven A. Kandarian 
      
    Chairman of the Board, President and 
      
    February 26, 2015 
    
      Steven A. Kandarian 
      
    Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) 

/s/ John C. R. Hele 
      
    Executive Vice President and 
      
    February 26, 2015 
    
      John C. R. Hele 
      
    Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 

/s/ Peter M. Carlson 
      
    Executive Vice President and 
      
    February 26, 2015 
    
      Peter M. Carlson 
      
    Chief Accounting Officer 
  (Principal Accounting Officer) 

361 

       Table of Contents  

   Exhibit Index 
  (  Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts:     In reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, please remember that they are included to provide you with information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about MetLife, Inc., its subsidiaries or affiliates, or the other parties to the agreements. The agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and (i) should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate; (ii) have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in the agreement; (iii) may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as material to investors; and (iv) were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are subject to more recent developments. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. Additional information about MetLife, Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates may be found elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and MetLife, Inc. s other public filings, which are available without charge through the SEC s website at www.sec.gov.) 
                   Exhibit No. 
      
    Description 

2.1 
      
    Plan of Reorganization. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to MetLife, Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-91517) (the "S-1 Registration Statement")). 

2.2 
      
    Amendment to Plan of Reorganization, dated as of March 9, 2000. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the S-1 Registration Statement). 

2.3 
      
    Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 7, 2010, among MetLife, Inc., AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) and American International Group, Inc. ("AIG") (the "Stock Purchase Agreement"). (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to MetLife, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 11, 2010). 

2.4 
      
    Amendment, dated October 28, 2010, among MetLife, Inc., AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) and AIG to the Stock Purchase Agreement. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to MetLife, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 2, 2010 (the "November 2, 2010 Form 8-K")). 

2.5 
      
    Amendment, dated October 29, 2010, among MetLife, Inc., AM Holdings LLC (formerly known as ALICO Holdings LLC) and AIG to the Stock Purchase Agreement. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the November 2, 2010 Form 8-K). 

3.1 
      
    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of MetLife, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to MetLife, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 (the "2011 Annual Report")). 

3.2 
      
    Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on April 7, 2000. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the 2011 Annual Report). 

3.3 
      
    Certificate of Designations of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on June 10, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the 2011 Annual Report). 

3.4 
      
    Certificate of Designations of 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on June 14, 2005. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to the 2011 Annual Report). 

3.5 
      
    Certificate of Amendment of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of MetLife, Inc., dated April 29, 2011. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.6 to the 2011 Annual Report). 

3.6 
      
    Certificate of Retirement of Series B Contingent Convertible Junior Participating Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on November 5, 2013. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.6 to MetLife, Inc.'s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2013). 

3.7 
      
    Amended and Restated By-Laws of MetLife, Inc., effective February 27, 2013. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to MetLife, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 4, 2013).  
      4.1 
      
    Form of Certificate for Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the S-1 Registration Statement). 

4.2 
      
    Certificate of Designations of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on June 10, 2005. (See Exhibit 3.3 above). 

4.3 
      
    Form of Stock Certificate, Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, of MetLife, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.6 to MetLife, Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed on June 10, 2005). 

4.4 
      
    Certificate of Designations of 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on June 14, 2005. (See Exhibit 3.4 above). 

4.5 
      
    Form of Stock Certificate, 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, of MetLife, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.6 to MetLife, Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed on June 15, 2005). 

4.6 
      
    Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of November 1, 2010, among MetLife, Inc. and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Stock Purchase Contract Agent. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the November 2, 2010 Form 8-K). 

E-1 

       Table of Contents  

E-2 

       Table of Contents  

E-3 

       Table of Contents  

E-4 

       Table of Contents  

E-5 

       Table of Contents  

E-6 

       Table of Contents  

______________ 
  * Indicates management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements. 
    
    E-7 

<EX-10.1>
 2
 met-20141231xex101.htm
 EX-10.1

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.1 

Exhibit 10.1 
  METLIFE EXECUTIVE SEVERANCE PLAN  
  (as amended and restated effective June 14, 2010) 
    
  WHEREAS, the Company or an Affiliate has employed the Executives, and the Company has determined that the Executives hold critical positions with the Company; 
  WHEREAS, the Company believes that, in the event it is confronted with a situation that could result in a change of ownership or control of the Company, continuity of management will be essential to its ability to evaluate and respond to such situation in the best interests of its shareholders; 
  WHEREAS, the Company understands that any such situation will present significant concerns for the Executives with respect to the Executives  financial and job security; 
  WHEREAS, the Company desires to assure itself or its Affiliate of the Executives  services during the period in which it is confronting such a situation, and to provide the Executives certain financial assurances to enable the Executives to perform the responsibilities of the Executives  positions without undue distraction and to exercise judgment without bias due to personal circumstances; 
  WHEREAS, to achieve these objectives, the Company desires to provide each of the Executives with certain rights and obligations upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as so defined); 
  WHEREAS, the Plan will be effective in this amended and restated form 180 days after the date of its execution, pursuant to Section 1(c) of the terms of the Plan prior to this amendment and restatement; 
  NOW, THEREFORE, the Company has established the Plan. 
  1.      Operation, Term, Amendment and Termination  .  The term of the Plan shall commence on December 17, 2007 and continue until it is terminated in accordance with its terms.  The Plan may be amended or terminated in a writing executed by an officer of Company authorized to do so by the Committee;   provided, however  , that: 
  (a)    the Plan may not be amended or terminated upon or after the date of a Change of Control and prior to the third anniversary of that Change of Control; 
  (b)    the Plan may not be amended or terminated upon or after the date of a Potential Change of Control and prior to a good faith determination by the Committee that the Potential Change of Control will not result in a Change of Control.  No such determination shall be effective upon or after the date of a Change of Control; 
    1 

(c)    no amendment or termination of the Plan which is adverse to the interests of an Executive will be of any effect as to such Executive if a Change of Control or Potential Change of Control occurs within 180 days of the date of execution of the amendment or termination; 
  (d)    no amendment or termination of the Plan will effect any Executive s rights, if any, arising hereunder on or prior to the date of the amendment or termination; and 
  (e)    notwithstanding the terms of Sections 1(a), (b), (c), or (d), this Plan may be amended or terminated upon a good faith determination by the Committee that such action is necessary to maintain this Plan s compliance with law to avoid tax or other legal violations or penalties that will harm the interests of the Executives. 
  2.      Definitions  .  (a)    Accountants  .   Accountants  shall mean the Company s independent certified public accountants appointed prior to the date of a Change of Control or tax counsel selected by such Accountants. 
  (b)      Affiliate  .  An  Affiliate  shall mean any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other entity which directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, the Company. 
  (c)      Annual Bonus  .   Annual Bonus  means an annual bonus awarded or granted to an Executive under the Annual Variable Incentive Plan (or any successor plan thereto) or any other plan, agreement, or arrangement. 
  (d)      Base Salary  .   Base Salary  means an Executive s base salary, as it may be increased from time to time. 
  (e)      Base Amount  .   Base Amount  shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code. 
  (f)      Beneficial Ownership  .   Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act. 
  (g)      Board  .   Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company or of any successor to the Company. 
  (h)      Cause  .   Cause  means (i) an Executive s conviction or plea of   nolo contendere   to a felony; (ii) an act of dishonesty or gross misconduct on an Executive s part which results or is intended to result in material damage to the Company s business or reputation; or (iii) repeated material violations by an Executive of the Executive s Employment Obligations, which violations are demonstrably willful and deliberate on the Executive s part.  Any termination of an Executive s employment by the Company (or Affiliate, as applicable) for Cause that causes the Executive s Employment Period to end shall be communicated by the Company to the Executive by a Notice of Termination  
    2 

within 10 business days of the Company s having actual knowledge of the events giving rise to such termination.   
  (i)      Change of Control  .  For the purposes of the Plan, a  Change of Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if, during the term of the Plan: 
  (i)    any Person acquires Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 25% or more of the combined Voting Power of the Company s securities; 
  (ii)    within any 24-month period, the Incumbent Directors shall cease to constitute at least a majority of the Board;   provided  ,   however  ,   that   any director elected or nominated for election to the Board by a majority of the Incumbent Directors then still in office shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director for purposes of this Section 2(i)(ii); 
  (iii)    the stockholders of the Company approve a Corporate Event, and immediately following the consummation of which the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to such Corporate Event do not hold, directly or indirectly, a majority of the Voting Power of (a) in the case of a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation, (b) in the case of a share exchange, the acquiring corporation or (c) in the case of a division or a sale or other disposition of assets, each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation which, immediately following the relevant Corporate Event, holds more than 25% of the consolidated assets of the Company immediately prior to such Corporate Event; or 
  (iv)    any other event occurs which the Board declares to be a Change of Control. 
  (j)      COBRA Premiums  .   COBRA Premiums  means the full undiscounted COBRA rate of premiums applicable to former participants and covered beneficiaries under applicable medical and dental plans for benefits for the first six months following the Date of Termination. 
  (k)      Code  .   Code  means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 
  (l)      Committee  .   Committee  means the Board Compensation Committee or such other Board committee charged with responsibility for executive compensation, or if no committee has been so charged the Board. 
  (m)      Company  .   Company  means MetLife, Inc. 
    3 

(n)      Continuing Benefit Plans  .   Continuing Benefit Plans  means the Company s (or Affiliate s, as applicable) employee and executive plans providing medical, dental and long-term disability benefits. 
  (o)      Corporate Event  .   Corporate Event  means a merger, consolidation, share exchange, division, sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company which is consummated. 
  (p)      Covered Payments  .   Covered Payments  means any amount or benefit paid or distributed to an Executive pursuant to the Plan, plus any amounts or benefits otherwise paid or distributed to the Executive by the Company or any Affiliate under any other plan, agreement, or arrangement that would be taken into account for purposes of determining if an Excess Parachute Payment has been made. 
  (q)      Date of Termination  .   Date of Termination  means (i) in the case of a termination of an Executive s employment for which a Notice of Termination is required, the date of receipt of such Notice of Termination or, if later, the date specified therein, as the case may be, and (ii) in all other cases, the actual date on which an Executive s employment terminates, in each case if such termination causes the Employment Period to end. 
  (r)      Disability  .   Disability  means an Executive s inability to perform the duties of the Executive s position, as determined in accordance with the policies and procedures applicable with respect to the Company s (or Affiliate s, as applicable) long-term disability plan, as in effect immediately prior to the date of a Change of Control;   provided, however  , that no inability to perform the Executive s duties shall constitute Disability hereunder unless the Executive has requested that the Executive be considered for, and has qualified to receive, long-term disability benefits under a plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate to its employees. 
  (s)      Earned Obligations  .   Earned Obligations  means an Executive s full Base Salary through the Date of Termination (the timely payment of which shall mean payment in cash in a single lump sum as soon as practicable, but in no event more than 30 days (or at such earlier date required by law), following the Date of Termination), (ii) any vested amounts or benefits owing to the Executive under or in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Company s and Affiliates  otherwise applicable employee benefit plans and programs and any accrued vacation pay through the Executive s Date of Termination or in connection with the termination of employment that causes the Employment Period to end, (iii) any other benefits payable due to an Executive s death or Disability under the Company s and Affiliates  plans, policies or programs through the Executive s Date of Termination or in connection with the termination of employment that causes the Employment Period to end.   
  (t)      End Date  .   End Date  means the third anniversary of the Date of Termination. 
    4 

(u)      Employment Obligations  .   Employment Obligations  means, during the Employment Period, the devotion of full attention during normal business hours to the business and affairs of the Company and Affiliates and the use of an Executive s best efforts to perform faithfully and efficiently responsibilities assigned to an Executive hereunder, to the extent necessary to discharge such responsibilities, except for (i) time spent in managing an Executive s personal, financial and legal affairs and serving on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, in each case only if and to the extent not substantially interfering with the performance of such responsibilities, and (ii) periods of vacation and sick leave to which an Executive is entitled.  The Executive s continuing service on any boards and committees on which the Executive is serving or with which the Executive is otherwise associated immediately preceding the Effective Date shall not be deemed to interfere with the performance of the Executive s Employment Obligations. 
  (v)      Employment Period  .   Employment Period  means, with regard to each Executive, the period beginning on the date of a Change of Control prior to the termination of the Plan and ending on the earlier of the third anniversary of the Change of Control or the Executive s Date of Termination. 
  (w)      Employment Terms  .   Employment Terms  means terms and conditions of employment during the Employment Period consisting of the following: 
  (i)    Base Salary  .  An Executive shall receive a base salary at a monthly rate at least equal to the monthly salary paid to the Executive by the Company and any Affiliate immediately prior to the date of a Change of Control.  The base salary shall be reviewed at least once each year after the date of a Change of Control, and may be increased (but not decreased) at any time and from time to time by action of the Board or any committee thereof, or the Board of Directors of an Affiliate or any committee thereof, or any individual having authority to take such action in accordance with the regular practices of the Company or an Affiliate.  Neither the Base Salary nor any increase in the Base Salary after the date of a Change of Control shall serve to limit or reduce any other of the Employment Terms.  An Executive s Base Salary shall be paid no less frequently than monthly, except as electively deferred by the Executive pursuant to any deferral programs or arrangements that the Company or an Affiliate may make available to the Executive. 
  (ii)      Total Incentive Compensation  . 
  (a)    In addition to the Base Salary, an Executive shall be afforded the opportunity to (1) receive an annual bonus in an amount which provides the Executive with at least the same bonus opportunity as other executives of the Company and Affiliates of a rank comparable to that of the Executive, and (2) participate in all long-term incentive compensation programs for key executives, including but not limited to those awards or grants made in the form of cash, stock awards, restricted stock, stock options, and other forms of Long-Term Compensation, at a  
    5 

level that is at least commensurate with the level made available from time to time to executives of the Company and Affiliates of a rank comparable to that of the Executive. 
  (b)    For each fiscal year that ends during the Employment Period, the aggregate of the value of the Total Incentive Compensation awarded or granted to the Executive attributable to that year shall be no lower than the highest aggregate value of Total Incentive Compensation awarded or granted to the Executive attributable to any of the prior three (3) fiscal years.   
  (c)    If any fiscal year commences but does not end during the Employment Period, an Executive shall be awarded or granted at least a pro-rated Annual Bonus attributable to the portion of the fiscal year occurring during the Employment Period, and such amount shall be no lower than the same pro-rated portion of the any of the three (3) prior Annual Bonuses awarded or granted to the Executive attributable to complete fiscal years.   
  (d)    Each Annual Bonus shall be paid as soon as practicable following the year for which the amount (or any prorated portion) is awarded or granted, unless electively deferred by an Executive pursuant to any deferral programs or arrangements that the Company may make available to the Executive.   
  (e)    For all purposes of determining the value of Total Incentive Compensation or any of its components pursuant to this Section 2(w)(ii): 
  (1)    all compensation awarded or granted to an Executive (or, with reference to Section 2(w)(ii)(a), which an Executive has the opportunity to receive) prior to the date of a Change of Control shall be valued using the methods as were used by the Company or Affiliate (as applicable) in valuing that compensation for purposes of communicating that annual Total Incentive Compensation to the Executive in writing; 
  (2)    all compensation awarded or granted to an Executive (or, with reference to Section 2(w)(ii)(a), which an Executive has the opportunity to receive) during the Employment Period shall be valued using the same methods as were used by the Company or Affiliate (as applicable) in valuing compensation for purposes of communicating annual Total Incentive Compensation to the Executive in writing for the final fiscal year that began prior to the Employment Period and, should that communication fail to value a particular form of compensation that must be valued for purposes of this Section 2(w)(ii)(e)(2), otherwise using such  
    6 

methods as were presented or produced by the Board in writing in valuing the executive compensation programs of enterprises competitive to the Company or any Affiliates for the final fiscal year that began prior to the Employment Period; and 
  (3)    with regard to fiscal years or portions thereof during to the Employment Period, such awards or grants shall be attributable to such fiscal years or portions thereof only to the extent those awards or grants provided to an Executive within that fiscal year or in the first quarter of the following fiscal year are free of Company or Affiliate discretion to reduce the amount or value of the award or grant. 
  (iii)      Benefit Plans  .  An Executive (and, to the extent applicable, the Executive s dependents) shall participate in or be covered under all pension, retirement, deferred compensation, savings, medical, dental, health, disability, group life, accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs of the Company or Affiliate, whichever is applicable, under the same terms and at the same participant cost as such benefits are made available from time to time to other similarly situated officers. 
  (iv)      Expenses  .  An Executive shall receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred by the Executive in accordance with the policies and procedures of the Company or Affiliate, whichever is applicable, as in effect from time to time with respect to expenses incurred by other similarly situated officers. 
  (v)      Vacation and Fringe Benefits  .  An Executive shall be paid vacation and fringe benefits at a level that is commensurate with the paid vacation and fringe benefits available from time to time to other similarly situated officers. 
  (vi)      Indemnification  .  The Company (if the Executive is an officer or employee of the Company at the time of the events giving rise to the need for indemnity) and/or each Affiliate of which the Executive is an officer or employee at the time of the events giving rise to the need for indemnity, shall indemnify each Executive and hold each Executive harmless from and against judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement and reasonable expenses, including attorneys  fees, on the same terms and conditions applicable from time to time with respect to the indemnification of its other senior officers of comparable rank. 
  (vii)      Location  .  The Executive s services shall be performed at the location where the Executive was employed immediately preceding the date of a Change of Control or at any other office or location not more than 50 miles from such pre-Change of Control location, except for travel reasonably required in the performance of the Executive s responsibilities. 
    7 

(x)      Excess Parachute Payment  .   Excess Parachute Payment  shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 280G of the Code. 
  (y)      Exchange Act  .   Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 
  (z)      Excise Tax  .   Excise Tax  means the tax imposed under Section 4999 of the Code (or any similar tax that may hereafter be imposed). 
  (aa)      Executive  .   Executive  means an individual who, immediately prior to a Potential Change of Control or Change of Control, is either: 
  (i)    employed by the Company or an Affiliate and subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16 of the Exchange Act with regard to the Company, as determined by the Compensation Committee or Board of Directors of the Company; or 
  (ii)    granted eligibility under the Plan in a writing executed by an officer of Company authorized to do so by the Committee.  Individuals granted eligibility under this Section 2(aa)(ii) will be listed in an appendix to the Plan. 
  (bb)      Good Reason  .   Good Reason  means the occurrence of any of the following, without the express written consent of an Executive, during the Employment Period: 
  (i)    any failure by the Company (or Affiliate, as applicable) to comply with the Employment Terms, other than an insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive; or 
  (ii)    any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and agreement to sponsor and administer the Plan by a successor or to cause an Affiliate, as applicable, to comply with the terms of the Plan as contemplated by Section 7(b) hereof. 
  In no event shall the mere occurrence of a Change of Control, absent any further impact on an Executive, be deemed to constitute Good Reason.  In no event shall the mere transfer of employment from the Company or an Affiliate to the Company or an Affiliate, absent any further impact on an Executive, be deemed to constitute Good Reason, notwithstanding any technical termination of employment in connection with such a transfer.  Any termination of employment by the Executive for Good Reason that causes the Executive s Employment Period to end shall be communicated to the Company by the Executive by a Notice of Termination within one hundred twenty (120) days of an Executive s having actual knowledge of the events giving rise to such termination.   
    8 

(cc)      Incumbent Directors  .   Incumbent Directors means the persons who were directors of the Company at the beginning of any 24-month period. 
  (dd)      Long-Term     Compensation.   Long-Term Compensation  means an Executive s long-term incentive compensation. 
  (ee)      Notice of Termination  .   Notice of Termination  means a written notice given consistent with the terms of the Plan that (i) indicates the specific termination provision in the Plan relied upon, (ii) sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive s employment under the provision so indicated, and (iii) if the termination date is other than the date of receipt of such notice, specifies the termination date (which date shall be not more than 15 days after the giving of such notice).  The failure by an Executive to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good Reason shall not waive any right of the Executive hereunder or preclude the Executive from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Executive s rights hereunder. 
  (ff)      Parachute Payments  .   Parachute Payments  shall have the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 280G of the Code. 
  (gg)      Payment Cap  .   Payment Cap  means the maximum amount which may be paid to the Executive under this Plan without the Executive becoming subject to Excise Tax as a result of all Covered Payments. 
  (hh)      Person  .   Person  shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as supplemented by Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, and shall include any group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b) under the Exchange Act);   provided, however  , that  Person  shall not include (i) the Company or any Affiliate, (ii) the MetLife Policyholder Trust (or any person(s) who would otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the power to control the voting of the shares held by that trust), or (ii) any employee benefit plan (including an employee stock ownership plan) sponsored by the Company or any Affiliate. 
  (ii)      Plan  .   Plan  means this MetLife Executive Severance Plan, as amended and restated. 
  (jj)      Potential Change of Control.      For the purposes of the Plan, a  Potential Change of Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if, during the term of the Plan: 
  (i)    a Person commences a tender offer, with adequate financing, which, if consummated, would result in such Person having Beneficial Ownership, of securities of the Company representing 10% or more of the combined Voting Power of the Company s securities; 
    
  (ii)    the Company enters into an agreement the consummation of which would constitute a Change of Control; 
    9 

(iii)    any Person other than the Company attempts, directly or indirectly, to replace more than 25% of the directors of the Company;   provided  ,   however,   that any action taken in support of a nominee approved by a majority of the members of the Board then in office shall not be given any effect in determining whether a Potential Change of Control has occurred; 
    
  (iv)    any other event occurs which the Board declares to be a Potential Change of Control. 
  (kk)      Severance Pay  .   Severance Pay means an amount equal to two (2) times the sum of: 
  (i)    the Executive s annual rate of Base Salary as then in effect; and 
  (ii)    the average of the Annual Bonuses awarded or granted to the Executive for each of the three fiscal years of the Company (or, if less, the number of prior fiscal years during which Executive was an employee of the Company or an Affiliate) ended immediately prior to the date of a Change of Control for which an annual bonus amount had been determined by the Board (or any committee thereof) prior to the date of a Change of Control.  If the Executive was employed by the Company or Affiliates (taken as a whole) for only a portion of any fiscal year included in the period for which the average referred to in the immediately preceding sentence is determined and the bonus awarded or granted for such fiscal year took into account such partial period of employment, such bonus for such fiscal year shall be annualized for purposes of calculating such average.  If any fiscal year included in the period for which the average referred to in the first sentence of this Section 2(aa)(ii) is determined is an Executive s first or second calendar year of employment by the Company or Affiliates (taken as a whole), and no annual bonus amount for one or either such year had been determined by the Board (or any committee thereof) prior to the date of a Change of Control, then the amount which was the mid-point of the Annual Bonus range for the Executive s compensation grade used by the Company or Affiliates for compensation determination purposes for performance in the first of the two calendar years shall be used for either year (or both) for purposes of determining the average referred to in the first sentence of this Section 2(aa)(ii). 
  (ll)      Prior Date  .   Prior Date  means the date, if any, prior to the End Date on which the Executive becomes eligible for comparable benefits under a similar plan, policy or program of a subsequent employer. 
  (mm)      Total Incentive Compensation  .   Total Incentive Compensation  means the value of the Annual Bonus awarded or granted to an Executive attributable to a fiscal year plus the value of the Long-Term Compensation awarded or granted to the Executive attributable to that fiscal year. 
    10 

(nn)      Voting Power  .   Voting Power  means such number of Voting Securities as shall enable the holders thereof to cast all the votes which could be cast in an annual election of directors of a company, and "Voting Securities" shall mean all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual election of directors of a company. 
  3.      Obligations of the Company upon Termination  .  (a)    Transfer of Employment  .  In no event shall the mere transfer of employment from the Company or an Affiliate to the Company or an Affiliate, absent any further impact on the Executive, be deemed to constitute a termination of employment, notwithstanding any technical termination of employment in connection with such a transfer. 
  (b)      Termination by the Company or an Affiliate other than for Cause and Termination by the Executive for Good Reason  .  The terms of this Section 3(b) shall apply to an Executive if and only if the Executive s Employment Period ends because the Company or an Affiliate terminates the Executive s employment (other than for Cause or due to Disability) or the Executive terminates his or her employment for Good Reason.  The terms of this Section 3(b) shall not apply to an Executive if the Executive s Employment Period ends due to death. 
  (i)      Severance Pay  . 
  (a)    If the Executive s Employment Period ends because the Company or an Affiliate terminates the Executive s employment (other than for Cause or due to Disability), the Company shall pay the Severance Pay in a single lump sum in cash as soon as practicable after the Date of Termination but in no event more than thirty (30) days following the Date of Termination.  
  (b)    If the Executive s Employment Period ends because the Executive terminates his or her employment for Good Reason, the Company shall pay the Severance Pay in a single lump sum in cash six (6) months after the Date of Termination. 
  (ii)      Continuation of Medical, Dental, and Long-Term Disability Benefits  .  The Executive (and, to the extent applicable, the Executive's dependents) shall be entitled, after the Date of Termination until the End Date, to continue participation in all of the Continuing Benefit Plans;   provided, however  , that if the Executive s Employment Period ends because the Executive terminates his or her employment for Good Reason, the Executive shall pay the Company or an Affiliate the COBRA Premiums as a condition of such continued participation; and   provided further, however, that   the participation by the Executive (and, to the extent applicable, the Executive's dependents) in any Continuing Benefit Plan shall cease on the Prior Date.  The Executive s participation in the Continuing Benefit Plans will be on the same terms and conditions that would have applied had the Executive continued to be employed by the Company (or Affiliate, as applicable) through the End Date or the Prior Date.  To the extent any such  
    11 

benefits cannot be provided under the terms of the applicable plan, policy or program, the Company shall provide a comparable benefit under another plan or from the Company s general assets.   
  (iii)      Reimbursement of COBRA Premiums  .  If the Executive s Employment Period ends because the Executive terminates his or her employment for Good Reason, the Company shall reimburse the Executive for any and all COBRA Premiums paid by the Executive, to the extent the Executive had paid the Company or an Affiliate the COBRA Premiums.  The Company s reimbursement shall be paid in cash six months after the Date of Termination. 
  (c)      Modification of Payments by the Company  . 
  (i)      Application of Section 3(c) Hereof  .  In the event that any of the Covered Payments to an Executive would be an Excess Parachute Payment as defined in Section 280G of the Code, and would thereby subject the Executive to the Excise Tax, and the net after-tax benefit that the Executive would receive by applying the Payment Cap is greater than the net after-tax benefit the Executive would receive if the Payment Cap were not applied to Executive s Covered Payments, then the Severance Pay payable to the Executive shall be reduced (but not below zero) so that the Severance Pay and all other Covered Payments do not exceed the amount of the Payment Cap. 
  (ii)      Calculation of Benefits  .  Promptly after delivery of any Notice of Termination, the Company shall notify the Executive of the aggregate present value of all Covered Payments to which the Executive would be entitled under the Plan and any other plan, program or arrangement as of the projected Date of Termination, together with the projected maximum payments, determined as of such projected Date of Termination that could be paid without the Executive being subject to the Excise Tax. 
  (iii)      Application of Section 280G of the Code  .  For purposes of determining whether any of the Covered Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax and the amount of such Excise Tax: 
  (a)    such Covered Payments will be treated as Parachute Payments within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code, and all Parachute Payments in excess of the Base Amount shall be treated as subject to the Excise Tax, unless, and except to the extent that, in the good faith judgment of the Accountants, the Company has a reasonable basis to conclude that any amount or benefit paid or distributed to the Executive pursuant to the Plan, or any amounts or benefits otherwise paid or distributed to the Executive by the Company or any Affiliate under any other plan, agreement, or arrangement (in whole or in part), either do not constitute Parachute Payments or represent reasonable compensation for personal services actually rendered (within the meaning of Section 280G 
    12 

(b)(4)(B) of the Code) in excess of the portion of the Base Amount allocable to such Covered Payments, or such Parachute Payments are otherwise not subject to such Excise Tax, and 
  (b)    the value of any non cash benefits or any deferred payment or benefit shall be determined by the Accountants in accordance with the principles of Section 280G of the Code. 
  (iv)      Assumptions in Determining Net After-Tax Benefit  .  For purposes of determining whether the net after-tax benefit that the Executive would receive by applying the Payment Cap is greater than the net after-tax benefit the Executive would receive if the Payment Cap were not applied to Executive s Covered Payments, Executive shall be deemed to pay (a) Federal income taxes at the highest applicable marginal rate of Federal income taxation for the calendar year in which the first amounts are to be paid hereunder, and (b) any applicable state and local income taxes at the highest applicable marginal rate of taxation for such calendar year, net of the maximum reduction in Federal incomes taxes which could be obtained from the deduction of such state or local taxes if paid in such year. 
  4.      Non exclusivity of Rights  .  Except as expressly provided herein, nothing in the Plan shall prevent or limit an Executive s continuing or future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other plan or program provided by the Company or any Affiliate and for which the Executive may qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise prejudice such rights as the Executive may have under any other agreements with the Company or any Affiliate, including employment agreements or stock option agreements.   
  5.      No Offset  .  The Company s obligation to make the payments provided for in the Plan and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be diminished or otherwise affected by any circumstances, including, but not limited to, any set off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the Company may have against an Executive or others whether by reason of the subsequent employment of the Executive or otherwise.   
  6.      Legal Fees and Expenses  .  If, on or after the date of a Change of Control, an Executive asserts any claim in any contest (whether initiated by the Executive or by the Company) as to the validity, enforceability or interpretation of any provision of the Plan, or any claim for any Earned Obligations (including but not limited to the timely payment of Earned Obligations under law or accordance with the terms of the applicable plan, program or arrangement), the Company shall pay the Executive s legal expenses (or cause such expenses to be paid) including, but not limited to, the Executive s reasonable attorney s fees, on a quarterly basis, upon presentation of proof of such expenses in a form acceptable to the Company,   provided     that   the Executive shall reimburse the Company for such amounts, plus simple interest thereon at the 90-day United States Treasury Bill rate as in effect from time to time, compounded annually, if the Executive  
    13 

shall not prevail, in whole or in part, as to at least one material issue as to the validity, enforceability or interpretation of any provision of the Plan or the Executive s right to any Earned Obligations. 
  7.      Successors  .  (a)  An Executive may not assign any rights under the Plan, other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  An Executive s rights shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive s legal representatives. 
  (b)    The Plan shall be binding upon the Company and its successors.  The Company shall cause each Affiliate, as applicable, to comply with the terms of the Plan.  The Company shall require any successor to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation, acquisition of stock, or otherwise, expressly to assume and agree to perform the terms of the Plan in the same manner and to the same extent as the Company would have been required to perform if no such succession had taken place.   
  8.      Unsecured Nature of Obligations  .  The Plan is an unfunded employee benefit plan established by the Company.  Any obligation to pay benefits under this Plan are general, unsecured obligations of the Company that shall be paid out of the general assets of the Company, or an Affiliate on behalf of the Company.   
  9.      Plan Administrator  .  The Company is the administrator of the Plan with authority to control and manage the operation and administration of this Plan, and is designated the Plan s agent for service of legal process.  Unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee of the Company, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, or designee thereof, shall carry out the Company s responsibilities under the Plan.  The Company shall not have the power to interpret and construe the provisions of the Plan in its discretion, nor have the power to decide any disputes that may arise as to the rights of an Executive to the benefits under the Plan.  No provision of the Plan shall entitle the Company to standard of legal review of any of its decisions or determinations other than a plenary,   de novo   standard, or be construed to suggest that such standard of review is appropriate.  The Company shall not have the power to adopt any rules, regulations, or procedures.   
  10.      Claims; Arbitration  .  Any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with the Plan, including but not limited to a claim by any Executive asserting rights or benefits under the Plan, shall be resolved by binding arbitration.  An Executive may, but shall be required to, submit a claim to the Company prior to asserting a claim in arbitration.  An  Executive shall not be required to follow any administrative process prior to asserting a claim in arbitration.  The arbitration shall be held in New York City  and except to the extent inconsistent with the Plan, shall be conducted in accordance with the Expedited Employment Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association in effect at the time of the arbitration (or such other rules as the parties may agree to in writing), and otherwise in accordance with principles which would be applied by a court of law or equity;   provided for greater clarity, however  , that in no event shall the arbitrator(s) be bound to follow the rules of evidence, discovery, or procedure that would applied  
    14 

by a court of law or equity.  The arbitrator shall be acceptable to both the Company and the Executive.  If the parties cannot agree on an acceptable arbitrator, the dispute shall be heard by a panel of three arbitrators, one appointed by each of the parties and the third appointed by the other two arbitrators. 
  11.      Miscellaneous  .  (a)    Entire Plan  .  This document constitutes the entire Plan.  There are no promises, representations, inducements or statements by the Company with respect to this Plan other than those that are expressly contained herein. 
  (b)      Applicable Law  .  This Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, and otherwise under the law of the United States or the State of New York, applied without reference to principles of conflict of laws.  For purposes of the Insurance Law of the State of New York, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control this Plan shall be considered a contract having a term of three years, recognizing that no rights hereunder will arise unless and until a Change of Control shall occur.  
  (c)      Deferred Compensation Compliance  .  This Plan is intended to comply with Code Section 409A and shall be interpreted accordingly. 
  (d)      Plan Year  .  The Plan year shall be a calendar year. 
  (e)      Notices  .  All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: 
           If to the Executive: 
    at the home address of the Executive noted on the records of the Company 
              If to the Company: 
    MetLife, Inc. 
     1095 Avenue of the Americas 
  New York City, New York  10034 
  Attn.:  Corporate Secretary 
  or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith.  Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee. 
  (f)      Tax Withholding  .  The Company shall withhold from any amounts payable under the Plan such Federal, state or local taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation. 
  (g)      Severability; Reformation; Calculation of Amounts  .  In the event that one or more of the provisions of the Plan shall become invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected thereby.  For purposes of the Plan, except for Section 3(c), the  
    15 

value of an amount or property awarded, granted, or paid to an Executive shall be determined notwithstanding any elective deferrals of payment. 
  (h)      Waiver  .  Waiver by any Executive of any breach or default by the Company of any of the terms of the Plan shall not operate as a waiver of any other breach or default, whether similar to or different from the breach or default waived.  No waiver of any provision of the Plan shall be implied from any course of dealing between an Executive and the Company or from any failure by the Executive to assert the Executive s rights hereunder on any occasion or series of occasions. 
    16 

(i)      Captions  .  The captions of the Plan are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. 
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, pursuant to the approval of its Compensation Committee, the Company has caused the Plan to be executed by an authorized officer in its name on its behalf.  
  METLIFE, INC. 
  By:       /s/ Jeffrey A. Welikson                                                                 
  Title:    Senior Vice President and Secretary  ______________ 
  Date:    December 16, 2009  ___________________________ 
    
  WITNESSED: 
  /s/ Valery Boice                                                                       

17 

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 met-20141231xex102.htm
 EX-10.2

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.2 

Exhibit 10.2 
  SEPARATION AGREEMENT, WAIVER AND GENERAL RELEASE 
    
  This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement and understanding which has been reached relative to the cessation of your (Lisa M. Weber) employment with MetLife Group, Inc. ("MetLife").  It is fully agreed and understood as follows: 
  1.  As a material inducement to MetLife to enter into this Agreement, you agree for yourself and your relatives, heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns that you hereby fully and forever release and discharge MetLife, MetLife, Inc., Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, and all of their parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, and agents and all of their parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, and agents and its past, present, and future directors, officers, and employees, agents, representatives, employee benefit plans or funds and the fiduciaries thereof, successors, and assigns of each (collectively,  the Company ) from any and all claims, charges, demands, actions, liability, damages, sums of money, back pay, attorneys  fees, or rights of any and every kind or nature which you ever had, now have or may have, whether known or unknown, against the Company arising out of any act, omission, transaction, or occurrence up to and including the date you execute this Agreement including, but not limited to, (i) any claim arising out of or related to your employment by the Company or the discontinuance thereof, (ii) any claim of employment discrimination, harassment or retaliation under, or any alleged violation of, any federal, state, or local fair employment practice or benefits law, rule, regulation, executive order, or ordinance, including but not limited to the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, as amended, or the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act, or the New Jersey Conscientious Employee Protection Act, (iii) any alleged violations of any duty or other employment-related obligation or other obligations arising out of contract, tort, tortious course of conduct, libel or slander, defamation, public policy, law, or equity, and (iv) any expectation, anticipation, right, or claim to incentive compensation under any Company incentive compensation plan, including but not limited to the MetLife Annual Variable Incentive Plan, the Performance Incentive Plan, and, except as otherwise specifically stated in this Agreement, the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, and the Long Term Performance Compensation Plan.   
  To the extent that you are a director, trustee, or officer of any Company entity, or are a member of any committee of the Company or any Company entity, you hereby resign from such capacity effective immediately and agree to execute any additional, more specific resignation document the Company may request.  You also agree to resign from any position in which you serve as a director or officer of any entity or organization as a designee of the Company effective on the Effective Date, and to notify MetLife with respect to each position and confirm to MetLife your resignation as soon as practicable after the Effective Date. 
  You acknowledge that, prior to your execution of this Agreement, you have been fully informed that your employment is being discontinued and that any and all claims arising from this discontinuance are included in this release.  This Agreement does not affect any rights that you may have arising out of events that occur after you have executed this Agreement or affect any benefits or rights that vested prior to your execution of this Agreement     under nonqualified deferred compensation plans or employee benefit plans governed by ERISA.  This Agreement does not affect any rights you have to be paid vested but unused Paid Time Off. 
  Your rights regarding any awards under the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan or the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan will be governed by the terms of any written award agreement into which you entered under the applicable plan. 
    
  2.  In consideration for the terms set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement and the other promises and terms contained in this Agreement, MetLife agrees: 
    
  (a)  to continue your employment, including the payment of your salary at your current salary rate and payment frequency and eligibility for benefits under the benefit plans and programs applicable to you, subject to the terms of those plans and programs, through December 31, 2009, or such earlier date that you inform the Company in advance in writing as you choose (which date shall be your  date of discontinuance ).  During the remainder of your employment, you will have those duties and responsibilities as your Company manager or his or her designee assigns to you.  Your date of discontinuance will not be affected by your application for, receipt of, or appeal from any denial of disability benefits. 
    
    1 

(b)  to pay you the sum of $5,000,000 (five million dollars and no cents) less all applicable federal, state and local tax withholding.  MetLife expects to make this payment on December 31, 2009 if the Effective Date of this Agreement has occurred on or prior to December 31, 2009, but in any event on or before March 15 of the calendar year after the earlier of (i) your date of discontinuance, or (ii) the date you were first offered a separation agreement in connection with this discontinuance of your employment, so long as the Effective Date has occurred by that time. If your  separation from service  as defined under U.S. Internal Revenue Code Section 409A is different from your date of discontinuance, your  separation from service,  rather than your date of discontinuance, will be used to determine the date by which payment will be made. 
    
  (c)  to make any payments due to you under the terms of your written Performance Share Agreements, which will vary depending on your date of discontinuance, less all applicable federal, state and local tax withholding.  If your date of discontinuance is December 31, 2009, then for purposes of your 2009-2011 Performance Share Agreement you will be deemed to have remained employed through the first anniversary of the beginning of the 2009-2011 performance period. 
    
  (d)  to recommend to the MetLife, Inc. Compensation Committee and Board of Directors that (i) the MetLife, Inc. stock options provided under each of your written stock option agreements (the  Stock Option Agreements ) that have not yet been exercised (your currently exercisable and unexercisable options being referred to, collectively, as the  Outstanding Stock Options ) and that are not yet exercisable will become exercisable on the dates provided by each Stock Option Agreement, notwithstanding the discontinuance of your employment, and (ii) that each of your Outstanding Stock Options will be exercisable through the remainder of the ten-year term of the Stock Options, as such ten-year term is reflected in each Stock Option Agreement.  For the avoidance of doubt, this Agreement shall be deemed null and void and of no force or effect if the provisions of this Section 2(d) are not fully approved by the Compensation Committee and Board of Directors.   
    
  (e)  to provide you with a program of comprehensive senior executive outplacement services commencing, at your election, any time after the date of execution of this Agreement and continuing through December 31, 2010 or such earlier date as you select, such program offered by a service provider of your choice, provided that the service provider charges MetLife (or one of its Affiliates) no more than its standard fees for such engagement.  You will also continue to participate in the Financial Counseling Program for MetLife Executive Group Members and Certain Other Senior Officers, in accordance with the terms of that program, for one calendar year after your date of discontinuance.  During the remainder of your employment, you will continue to be provided with vehicle and driver services in a manner consistent with the services provided to you prior to the date of your execution of this Agreement; will continue to be provided with support staff generally consistent with those provided to you prior to the date of your execution of this Agreement for one month after your execution of this Agreement; and will be reimbursed for expenses for such business and professional conferences that were approved by MetLife prior to your execution of this Agreement, consistent with MetLife s normal expense reimbursement practices.   
    
  (f)  to reimburse you your legal fees in connection with this Agreement, up to $12,500 (twelve-thousand, five hundred dollars and no cents), less any applicable federal, state and local tax withholding.  MetLife will make this payment on or before March 15 of the calendar year after the earlier of (i) your date of discontinuance, or (ii) the date you were first offered a separation agreement in connection with this discontinuance of your employment, so long as the Effective Date has occurred by that time. If your  separation from service  as defined under U.S. Internal Revenue Code Section 409A is different from your date of discontinuance, your  separation from service,  rather than your date of discontinuance, will be used to determine the date by which payment will be made.  
    
  (g)  to recommend to the MetLife, Inc. Compensation Committee and Board of Directors that it approve this Agreement. 
    
  You acknowledge that the payments and services provided for in this Section 2 exceed any sums to which you would otherwise be entitled under any policy, plan, and/or procedure or any agreement with the Company, and that they represent full and complete consideration for the release you are giving the Company in this Agreement.  Further, neither this Agreement nor the payment and benefits to be provided pursuant to this Section 2 in any way constitute an admission on the part of the Company as to the violation of any law or any obligation to you. 
    
  3.  By executing this Agreement, you acknowledge that you have accurately reported to the Company the daily or weekly hours you worked for the Company to the extent you have been asked to do so, that the Company  
    2 

has paid you all the salary and wages it owes you (including any overtime compensation or incentive compensation) for all completed payroll periods through the date you execute this Agreement, that you have been provided with any and all leaves of absences (including those under the Family and Medical Leave Act or other law) that you have requested or to which you were entitled, and that you have had the opportunity prior to signing this Agreement to raise to the Company any concerns or complaints about these or any other matters regarding your employment and have done so. 
    
  4.  You further agree, except for the provision of information to governmental agencies or self-regulatory organizations, or as required by subpoena, that neither you nor your agents, attorneys, or representatives will publish, publicize, or reveal any Company information obtained by you, your agents, attorneys, or representatives that relates to:  (i) your employment with the Company or the cessation of your employment with MetLife, (ii) any claims that were raised or could have been raised in any action as of the date you execute this Agreement, or (iii) the facts underlying any such claims.  You further agree, except for the provision of information to governmental agencies or self-regulatory organizations, or as required by subpoena, that neither you nor your agents, attorneys, or representatives will communicate in any way to any former, present, or future employees of the Company or to any person or corporation any information that relates to your employment with the Company or to any claims which could have been raised in any action in connection with the cessation of your employment with MetLife unless required by law to do so.  Although you are not precluded from participating in an investigation or from filing a charge with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) or other governmental agency relating to your employment or the termination thereof, you acknowledge that by executing this Agreement you waive all rights to recover any relief regarding any such claims.  
    
  Notwithstanding the other terms of this Section 4, you may provide a prospective employer with information concerning your former title, salary, job responsibilities and qualifications.  
    
  Notwithstanding the other terms of this Section 4, you agree to fully cooperate with MetLife or its counsel to provide information and/or testimony in connection with any investigations, administrative proceedings or litigations in which the Company is a party or has an interest, to the extent such cooperation does not unreasonably interfere with your then-current employment or business activities, if any.  If requested, you agree to meet with a Company representative and/or the Company s counsel to truthfully and fully provide all knowledge and information you have pertaining to the subject matter of any such proceeding.  
    
  You represent and agree that you have delivered or will, prior to your date of discontinuance, deliver to your Company manager (or other person designated by MetLife to receive these items) all Company property, information, documents, and other materials (including but not limited to memoranda, correspondence, reports, records, transcripts, notes, records of conversations, keys, computer and other equipment, and identification cards), in whatever form or medium (including papers, e-mail, disks, tapes, and any and all electronic storage), including all duplicates, copies, or versions, concerning or in any way related to the business affairs or operations of the Company, interaction by or among employees, customers, vendors, or other associates of the Company, or your job duties, responsibilities, assignments, or actions on behalf of or in furtherance of the interests of the Company, that are in your custody, possession, or control ( Company Material ).  Company Material does not include documents you received from an authorized representative of the Company solely regarding your employment relationship with the Company (e.g., summary plan descriptions, performance evaluations, benefits statements), any policy or product purchased by you or on your behalf from the Company, or securities of the Company held by you, or other documents you are entitled by law to retain.   
    
  You represent that you have conducted a diligent search for all Company Material prior to executing this Agreement.  You represent that after delivering to your manager a copy of any Company Material stored electronically on any of your personal hard drives or other non-portable electronic storage devices that you destroyed such Company Material stored on such devices, and that you have not knowingly retained any Company Material in any form.  You agree that if you discover or receive any Company Material you will return such Company Material to your former Company manager (or other person designated by MetLife to receive these items, or if either person is no longer employed by the Company, to the MetLife Human Resources Services Center, 500 Schoolhouse Road, Johnstown, PA  15904) within 48 hours of such discovery. 
    
  5.  In the event you are served with a subpoena or a request by a governmental agency or self-regulatory organization calling for the disclosure of any information concerning the Company, you agree to give MetLife ten  
    3 

(10) days written notice in advance of disclosing this Agreement or any information concerning MetLife by mailing to MetLife's Law Department located at 1095 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, Att. Office of the General Counsel, a copy of any such legal demand for such information (or, if you are required to disclose this Agreement or any information concerning MetLife in less than ten (10) days, by overnight delivery to be delivered to the same address in advance of disclosing this Agreement or any information concerning the Company). 
    
  6.  As a material inducement to MetLife to enter into this Agreement, you further agree for yourself and your relatives, heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns: 
    
  (a)  that your conduct during the remainder of your employment with MetLife as stated in Section 2 above will be consistent with the same duty of loyalty, including any fiduciary duties, that applied to you in your capacity as a director, trustee, officer, or member of any committee, of the Company, prior to the date this Agreement was offered to you. 
    
  (b)  that you confirm your obligations to comply with all of the provisions of your Agreements to Protect Corporate Property (which are attached hereto as Exhibits B and C).  The temporal restrictions in Section 2 of each Agreement to Protect Corporate Property shall coincide with the Restricted Period, as defined in this Agreement.   
    
  (c)  that you acknowledge that during the course of your employment with MetLife and its affiliates, you became familiar with confidential Company Material, the Company's trade secrets, and other confidential information about the Company, that your services were of special, unique and extraordinary value to the Company, and that by virtue of your employment, you have gained or will gain knowledge of the identity, characteristics and preferences of the Company's customer, client, supplier, vendor, or other business relations ( Business Relations ) and confidential information about those Business Relations, and that you would inevitably have to draw on such information if you were to solicit or service the Company's Business Relations on behalf of a competing business.  You further acknowledge that the Company is engaged in a highly competitive business, that the preservation of its Business Relations confidential information is critical to the Company's continued business success, that the Company's relationships with its Business Relations are extremely valuable, and that by virtue of your employment, you have had contact with those customers and clients and that you were compensated to develop relationships with Business Relations on behalf of and for the benefit of the Company.  During the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on December 31, 2010 (the  Restricted Period ), you agree: 
    
  (i)  that you will not directly or indirectly own any interest in, manage, control, participate in, consult with, or render services, as an officer, director, employee, partner, member, consultant, independent contractor or agent, to any person or entities identified in Exhibit A hereto, including their respective subsidiaries and affiliates ("Restricted Competitors"), in the United States and/or in any foreign country in which the Company now conducts business or, as of July 1, 2009, planned to conduct business ("Restricted Geographies").  You acknowledge that it is reasonable to restrict your activities in accordance with the terms of this Agreement in the Restricted Geographies during the Restricted Period.  Nothing in this Agreement will prohibit you from being a passive owner of not more than two percent (2%) of the outstanding stock of any class of securities in any of the Restricted Competitors, so long as you have no active participation in the business of such corporation.  MetLife may, in its sole discretion, waive in writing any of the restrictions in this Section 6(c)(i). 
    
  (ii)  that you will not directly or indirectly, (a) solicit, encourage, entice or induce any employee of the Company to leave the employ of the Company or in any way interfere with the relationship between the Company and anyone employed by the Company on the Effective Date or within 18 months prior to the Effective Date (each, a  Covered Employee  (b) hire or cause any person to be hired who is a Covered Employee or (c) solicit, encourage, entice or induce any of the Business Relations on behalf of any other person or entity; or (iv) solicit, encourage, entice or induce any of the Business Relations to cease doing business with or lessen the amount of business it presently transacts with the Company or in any way interfere with the relationship between any of the  Business Relations and the Company.   
    
  (d)  that you will not assist others in engaging in activities that you have agreed not to take or are not entitled to take under this Section 6. 
    
    4 

You agree that the terms and restrictions of this Section 6 are legitimate and reasonable in light of the access to information and persons recited above, the services you provided to the Company, and the consideration that you are receiving pursuant to this Agreement.  You acknowledge that during the Restricted Period, you will be able to earn a suitable livelihood without violating the terms and restrictions of this Section 6. 
    
  7.  You agree that money damages would be both incalculable and an insufficient remedy for any breach by you of Sections 4 or 6 of this Agreement and that any such actual, threatened or continuing breach will cause the Company irreparable harm.  In the event of any such breach by you of Sections 4 or 6 of this Agreement, the Company shall be entitled, without the requirement of posting a bond, to equitable relief, including temporary, preliminary or permanent injunctive relief, in any court of competent jurisdiction.  Such equitable relief shall not be the exclusive remedy for any breach by you of this Agreement but shall be in addition to any other damages or remedies available at law or inequity to the Company, including the Company's right to recover any payments made to you in the event that you have materially violated your obligations under any of Sections 4 or 6 of this Agreement.  In the event of any recovery by the Company of any payments made to you under this Agreement, such recovery will not effect any of your obligations under this Agreement.  The Company's determination not to enforce this Agreement as to specific violations shall not operate as a waiver or release of your obligations under the Agreement. 
    
  8.  You acknowledge that MetLife has advised you in writing that you have twenty-one (21) days in which to review this Agreement and fully consider its terms prior to signing it and that you should consult with legal counsel prior to signing this Agreement.  You fully understand the significance of all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement. You are signing this Agreement voluntarily and of your own free will and agree to abide by all the terms and conditions contained herein.  You may accept this Agreement by fully executing it and returning it to MetLife in accordance with the return instructions provided with this Agreement within twenty-one (21) days after the date you received this Agreement.  After you have executed this Agreement, you will have seven (7) days from the later of the date you execute this Agreement or the date you are notified that this Agreement has been approved by the MetLife, Inc. Compensation Committee and Board of Directors to revoke this Agreement, which you may do in writing either by e-mail to [REDACTED] or by fax to [REDACTED], in either case received by MetLife within seven (7) days following the date on which you executed this Agreement.  This Agreement will become effective on the eighth (8th) day following the later of the date you executed this Agreement or the date you are notified that this Agreement has been approved by the MetLife, Inc. Compensation Committee and Board of Directors (the  Effective Date ), provided you have not earlier revoked it.  In the event that you do not accept this Agreement as set forth above, or in the event that you revoke this Agreement prior to its Effective Date, this Agreement, including but not limited to the obligation of MetLife to make any payment or provide any benefit pursuant to Section 2, shall automatically be null and void. 
    
  9.  This Agreement is subject to the approval of the MetLife, Inc. Compensation Committee and Board of Directors and will not be effective unless it has been so approved.  You affirm that this Agreement has been executed voluntarily by you, and may not be changed except in a writing that specifically references this Agreement and that is signed by you and an officer of MetLife.   
    
  With the exception of your Agreements to Protect Corporate Property and written award agreements under the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan or the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan into which you have entered during your employment with the Company, which remain in full force and effect, this Agreement constitutes the full understanding between you and the Company regarding your employment, the cessation of your employment, and any other subject addressed in this Agreement, although in the event of any inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the Summary Plan Description ( SPD ) of the MetLife Plan for Transition Assistance for Officers ( Transition Plan ) , the terms of this Agreement shall govern.  For purposes related to the operation of the Transition Plan, the definitions in the SPD will be used for any capitalized terms used in this Agreement that is defined in the SPD and not defined in this Agreement.   
    
  MetLife and you intend that payments and benefits provided to you in this Agreement will be compliant with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, to the extent that such payments and benefits are subject to such section.  In no event shall the Company have any liability for any of your taxes, penalties, or other losses in connection with the payments or benefits provided to you in this Agreement other than any such amounts withheld by MetLife from any payments or benefits hereunder as provided herein. 
    
    5 

You affirm that no other promises, representations or agreements of any kind have been made to you by any person or entity whatsoever to cause you to sign this Agreement, and that you fully understand the meaning and intent of this Agreement.   
    
  If any provision of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, void or unenforceable, it shall be modified so that its purpose can lawfully be effectuated.  However, the illegality or unenforceability of such provision shall have no effect upon, and shall not impair the enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.  This Agreement shall be governed by the law of the State of New York without regard to choice of law or conflict of law rules or principles.  This Agreement may be used as evidence only to evidence its terms or otherwise in an action to enforce this Agreement, and may not be used for any other purpose.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. 
    
  Agreed: 

STATE OF   New York  ___________) 
            ):    
  COUNTY OF   New York  __________) 
    
  On this   17th  _____ day of   August  ________________,   2009  ____, before me personally came _____________________, to me known and known to me to be the person described in and who executed this Separation Agreement, Waiver, and General Release, and (s)he duly acknowledged to me that (s)he executed the same. 
    
  /s/ Shalom Nektalov  ______________________________ 
  Notary Public 
  Notary Public Commission Expiration Date:            Shalom Nektalov 
  Notary Public, State of New York 
  No. 01NE6087063 
  Qualified in Queens County 
  Commission Expires Feb. 10, 2011 
    
  MetLife Group, Inc. 
    
  By:    /s/ James Lipscomb 
                 James L. Lipscomb, Executive Vice President and General Counsel 
    August 4, 2009  _______ 
      Name   Title 
    Date 

6 

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.17>
 4
 met-20141231xex1017.htm
 EX-10.17

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.17 

Exhibit 10.17 
  
  December 9, 2014 

Ms. Esther Lee 
  [address redacted] 

Dear Esther: 
    
  We are pleased to offer you the following sign-on payments in connection with the beginning of your employment with MetLife Group, Inc. in the position of Executive Vice President and Global Chief Marketing Officer, subject to the approval of MetLife s Compensation Committee and Board of Directors. 
    
  Sign-On Payments 
    
  Based on the information you provided us, we understand you will forfeit certain compensation awards from your current employer if you accept employment with us.   With the understanding you will be joining MetLife shortly after the 2014 performance year, and as a result not eligible for certain incentive compensation from your current  employer for such performance  period, we recommend the following to MetLife s Compensation Committee and Board of Directors: 

Should you leave your current employer prior to the payment of your 2014 cash incentive, MetLife will make a one-time cash sign-on payment of up to $150,000 to you.  MetLife will determine the amount of the payment based on its determination of the amount of your 2014 cash incentive that you forfeited.   MetLife will make this payment to you in the first paycheck following thirty (30) calendar days of your start date with MetLife, subject to appropriate verification of loss/forfeiture.  Please understand that if you voluntarily terminate your employment with us prior to the first anniversary of your start date with MetLife, you will be required to repay the full amount of this payment without regard to amounts withheld. 

Should you leave your current employer prior to the vesting of your Restricted Stock Units that are scheduled to vest in January 2015, MetLife will make a one-time cash sign-on payment of up to $250,000 to you.  MetLife will determine the amount of the payment based on its determination of the amount you forfeited.  MetLife will make this payment to you in the first paycheck following thirty (30) calendar days of your start date with MetLife, subject to appropriate verification of loss/forfeiture.  Please understand that if you voluntarily terminate your employment with us prior to the first anniversary of your start date with MetLife, you will be required to repay the full amount of this payment without regard to amounts withheld. 

MetLife will make a one-time cash sign-on payment of $250,000 to you to help address the Restricted Stock Units that otherwise would have vested in 2016, paid to you within thirty  

(30) calendar days after the first anniversary of your start date with MetLife, subject to appropriate verification of loss/forfeiture.  Please understand that if you voluntarily terminate your employment with us prior to the second anniversary of your start date with MetLife, you will be required to repay the full amount of this payment without regard to amounts withheld. 

MetLife will make a one-time cash sign-on payment of $35,000 to you to further assist you with your transition to MetLife, paid to you within thirty (30) calendar days of your start date. 

MetLife Group, Inc. will make each of these cash sign-on payments to you in a lump sum less applicable taxes and other required withholding.  Payments will be made to you only if you maintain continuous employment and satisfactory performance through each payment date.  You may not defer these payments. 
    
  Other Terms 
    
  This is not an employment contract, and does not represent a guarantee of continued employment for any period of time.  Employment at MetLife is  employment at will,  which means that either you or MetLife may terminate the relationship at any time with or without cause or notice.  For the avoidance of doubt, this letter supersedes any and all other letters or oral statement previously provided to you on the subject of cash sign-on payments from MetLife, and such other letters or statement are hereby null and void and of no further effect. 
    
                 Sincerely, 
    I accept this offer. 

MetLife, Inc. 

By:      /s/ Steven A. Kandarian                                
    By:      /s/ Esther Lee                                               
      Steven A. Kandarian 
    Esther Lee 
      Chairman, President   
      
      Chief Executive Officer 
      
      MetLife, Inc. 
    Date:   12/9/2014                                                   

</EX-10.17>

<EX-10.24>
 5
 met-20141231xex1024.htm
 EX-10.24

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.24 

Exhibit 10.24 
  MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan 
  Effective April 15, 2005 

MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan 
  Article 1.  Establishment, Purpose, and Duration 
  1.1    Establishment of the Plan  .  MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (hereinafter referred to as the  Company ), establishes an incentive compensation plan to be known as the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (hereinafter referred to as the  Plan ), as set forth in this document. 
  The Plan permits the grant of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Cash-Based Awards, and Stock-Based Awards. 
  The Plan shall become effective, if approved by the Board and shareholders, on April 15, 2005 (the  Effective Date ) and shall remain in effect as provided in Section 1.3 hereof.  
  1.2    Purpose of the Plan  .  The purpose of the Plan is to promote the success and enhance the value of the Company and Affiliates by linking the personal interests of the Participants to those of the Company s shareholders, and by providing Participants with an incentive for outstanding performance. 
  The Plan is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of Participants upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of its operation largely is dependent. 
  1.3        Duration of the Plan  .  The Plan shall commence as of the Effective Date, as described in Section 1.1 herein, and shall remain in effect, subject to the right of the Committee or the Board to amend or terminate the Plan at any time pursuant to Article 16 herein, until the earlier of (i) the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date, or (ii) all Shares subject to the Plan have been purchased or acquired according to the Plan s provisions.  
  1.4        Successor Plan  .  This Plan shall serve as the successor to the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Predecessor Plan ), and no further grants shall be made under the Predecessor Plan from and after the Effective Date of this Plan.  All outstanding awards under the Predecessor Plan immediately prior to the Effective Date of this Plan are hereby incorporated into this Plan and shall accordingly be treated as Awards under this Plan.  However, each such award shall continue to be governed solely by the terms and conditions of the instrument evidencing such grant or issuance, and, except as otherwise expressly provided herein or by the Committee, no provision of this Plan shall affect or otherwise modify the rights or obligations of holders of such incorporated awards. 
  Any Shares of common stock reserved for issuance under the Predecessor Plan in excess of the number of Shares as to which awards have been awarded thereunder shall be transferred into this Plan upon the Effective Date and shall become available for grant under this Plan.  Any Shares related  to awards granted or issued under the Predecessor Plan that after the Effective Date may lapse, expire, terminate, or are cancelled, are settled in cash in lieu of common stock, are tendered (either by actual delivery or attestation) to pay the option price, or are used to satisfy any tax  
    1 

withholding requirements shall be deemed available for issuance or reissuance under Section 4.1 of this Plan. 
  Article 2.  Definitions 
  Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meaning set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized.  
           2.1 
     Affiliate    shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations of the Exchange Act, with reference to the Company, and shall also include any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, or other entity in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of the total combined Voting Power of such corporation or of the capital interest or profits interest of such partnership or other entity. 
              2.2 
     Agency    means the active relationship between an Agent and an insurance company for which the Agent is licensed. 
              2.3 
     Agent    means a natural person licensed or otherwise authorized under applicable law to represent the Company or an Affiliate in the sale of insurance or other financial products or services. 
              2.4 
     Award    means, individually or collectively, a grant under this Plan of NQSOs, ISOs, SARs, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Cash-Based Awards, or Stock-Based Awards, in each case subject to the terms of this Plan. 
              2.5 
     Award Agreement    means either (i) a written agreement entered into by the Company or an Affiliate and a Participant setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to Awards granted under this Plan; or (ii) a written statement issued by the Company or an Affiliate to a Participant describing the terms and provisions of such Award. 
              2.6 
     Beneficial Owner  or  Beneficial Ownership    shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act. 
              2.7 
     Board  or  Board of Directors    means the Board of Directors of the Company. 
              2.8 
     Cash-Based Award    means an Award granted under Article 10 herein, the value of which is denominated in cash as determined by the Committee and which is not any other form of Award described in this Plan. 
              2.9 
     Cause    means (i) the willful failure by the Participant to perform substantially the Participant s duties as an Employee or Agent (other than due to physical or mental illness) after reasonable notice to the Participant of such failure, (ii) the Participant's engaging in serious misconduct that is injurious to the Company or any Affiliate in any way, including, but not limited to, by way of damage to their respective reputations or standings in their respective industries, (iii) the Participant's having been convicted of, or  
       2 

having entered a plea of nolo contendere to, a crime that constitutes a felony or (iv) the breach by the Participant of any written covenant or agreement with the Company or any Affiliate not to disclose or misuse any information pertaining to, or misuse any property of, the Company or any Affiliate or not to compete or interfere with the Company or any Affiliate. 
           2.10 
     Change of Control    shall occur if any of the following events occur: 
              (i) 
    Any Person acquires Beneficial Ownership, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the combined Voting Power of the Company s securities; 
              (ii) 
    Within any twenty-four (24) month period, the individuals who were Directors of the Company at the beginning of such period (the  Incumbent Directors ) shall cease to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors or the Board of Directors of any successor to the Company; provided, however, that any Director elected or nominated for election to the Board by a majority of the Incumbent Directors then still in office shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director for purposes of this Section 2.10(ii); 
              (iii) 
    The shareholders of the Company approve a merger, consolidation, share exchange, division, sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company which is consummated (a  Corporate Event ), and immediately following the consummation of which the shareholders of the Company immediately prior to such Corporate Event do not hold, directly or indirectly, a majority of the Voting Power of (i) in the case of a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation, (ii) in the case of a share exchange, the acquiring corporation, or (iii) in the case of a division or a sale or other disposition of assets, each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation which, immediately following the relevant Corporate Event, holds more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the consolidated assets of the Company immediately prior to such Corporate Event; or 
              (iv) 
    Any other event occurs which the Board declares to be a Change of Control. 
              2.11 
     Change of Control Price    means the highest price per share of Shares offered in conjunction with any transaction resulting in a Change of Control (as determined in good faith by the Committee if any part of the offered price is payable other than in cash) or, in the case of a Change of Control occurring solely by reason of a change in the composition of the Board, the highest Fair Market Value of the common stock on any of the thirty (30) trading days immediately preceding the date on which a Change of Control occurs. 
              2.12 
     Code    means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, or any successor thereto. 
       3 

2.13 
     Committee    means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, or any other duly authorized committee of the Board appointed by the Board to administer the Plan. 
              2.14 
     Company    means MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto as provided in Article 18 herein. 
              2.15 
     Constructively Terminated    means, unless otherwise specified by the Committee in the Award Agreement, a voluntary termination of employment by an Employee or of a relationship as an Agent by an Agent within ten (10) business days after any of the following actions by the Company, Affiliate, or person acting on behalf of either:  
              (i) 
    Requiring the Employee or Agent to be based as his/her regular or customary place of employment or Agency at any office or location more than fifty (50) miles from the location at which the Employee performed his/her duties immediately prior to the Change of Control, or in a state other than the one in which the Employee or Agent performed his/her duties immediately prior to the Change of Control, in each case except for travel reasonably required in the performance of the individual's responsibilities; 
              (ii) 
    In the case of an Employee, reducing the Employee's base salary below the rate in effect at the time of a Change of Control; 
              (iii) 
    In the case of an Employee, failing to pay the Employee's base salary, other wages, or employment-related benefits as required by law; or 
              (iv) 
    In the case of an Agent, failing to pay the Agent's compensation or benefits as required by law. 
              2.16 
     Director    means any individual who is a member of the Board of Directors of the Company. 
              2.17 
     Employee    means any employee of the Company or an Affiliate.  Directors who are not otherwise employed by the Company or an Affiliate shall not be considered Employees under this Plan.  For greater clarity, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, individuals described in the first sentence of this definition who are foreign nationals or are employed outside of the United States, or both, are Employees and may be granted Awards on the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan, or on such other terms and conditions as may, in the judgment of the Committee, be necessary or desirable to further the purposes of the Plan.  
              2.18 
     Exchange Act    means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor act thereto. 
              2.19 
     Fair Market Value    or    FMV    means a price that is based on the opening, closing, actual, high, low, or average selling prices of a Share on the New York Stock Exchange  
       4 

( NYSE ) or other established stock exchange (or exchanges) on the applicable date, the preceding trading day, the next succeeding trading day, or an average of trading days, as determined by the Committee in its discretion.  Such definition(s) of FMV shall be specified in each Award Agreement and may differ depending on whether FMV is in reference to the grant, exercise, vesting, settlement, or payout of an Award.  If, however, the accounting standards used to account for equity awards granted to Participants are substantially modified subsequent to the Effective Date of the Plan, the Committee shall have the ability to determine an Award s FMV based on the relevant facts and circumstances.  If Shares are not traded on an established stock exchange, FMV shall be determined by the Committee based on objective criteria. 
           2.20 
     Fiscal Year    means the year commencing on January 1 and ending December 31 or other time period as approved by the Board. 
              2.21 
     Freestanding SAR    means an SAR that is not a Tandem SAR, as described in Article 7 herein. 
              2.22 
     Grant Price    means the price against which the amount payable is determined upon exercise of an SAR. 
              2.23 
     Incentive Stock Option    or    ISO    means an Option to purchase Shares granted under Article 6 herein and that is designated as an Incentive Stock Option and is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code, or any successor provision. 
              2.24 
     Insider    shall mean an individual who is, on the relevant date, subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, as determined by the Board. 
              2.25 
     Nonqualified Stock Option    or    NQSO    means an Option to purchase Shares, granted under Article 6 herein, which is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option or that otherwise does not meet such requirements. 
              2.26 
     Option    means the conditional right to purchase Shares at a stated Option Price for a specified period of time in the form of an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option subject to the terms of this Plan. 
              2.27 
     Option Price    means the price at which a Share may be purchased by a Participant pursuant to an Option, as determined by the Committee. 
              2.28 
     Participant    means an Employee or an Agent who has been selected to receive an Award, or who has an outstanding Award granted under the Plan. 
              2.29 
     Performance-Based Compensation    means compensation under an Award that is granted in order to provide remuneration solely on account of the attainment of one or more Performance Goals under circumstances that satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code. 
       5 

2.30 
     Performance Goal    means a performance criterion selected by the Committee for a given Award for purposes of Article 11 based on one or more of the Performance Measures. 
              2.31 
      Performance Measures    means measures as described in Article 11, the attainment of one or more of which shall, as determined by the Committee, determine the vesting, payability, or value of an Award to an Insider that are designated to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation.    
              2.32 
     Performance Period    means the period of time during which the assigned performance criteria must be met in order to determine the degree of payout and/or vesting with respect to an Award. 
              2.33 
     Performance Share    means an Award granted under Article 9 herein and subject to the terms of this Plan, denominated in Shares, the value of which at the time it is payable is determined as a function of the extent to which corresponding performance criteria have been achieved. 
              2.34 
     Performance Unit    means an Award granted under Article 9 herein and subject to the terms of this Plan, denominated in units, the value of which at the time it is payable is determined as a function of the extent to which corresponding performance criteria have been achieved. 
              2.35 
     Period of Restriction    means the period when an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit is subject to forfeiture based on the passage of time, the achievement of performance criteria, and/or upon the occurrence of other events as determined by the Committee, in its discretion. 
              2.36 
     Person    shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, including a  group  as defined in Section 13(d) thereof; provided, however, that  Person  shall not include   (i) the Company or any Affiliate, (ii) the MetLife Policyholder Trust (or any person(s) who would otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the power to control the voting of the shares held by that trust), or (iii) any employee benefit plan (including an employee stock ownership plan) sponsored by the Company or any Affiliate. 
              2.37 
     Restricted Stock    means an Award of Shares subject to a Period of Restriction, granted under Article 8 herein and subject to the terms of this Plan. 
              2.38 
     Restricted Stock Unit    means an Award denominated in units subject to a Period of Restriction, granted under Article 8 herein and subject to the terms of this Plan. 
              2.39 
     Shares    means the shares of common stock of the Company, $.01 par value per Share. 
       6 

2.40 
     Stock Appreciation Right    or    SAR    means the conditional right to receive the difference between the FMV of a Share on the date of exercise over the Grant Price, pursuant to the terms of Article 7 herein and subject to the terms of this Plan. 
              2.41 
     Stock-Based Award    means an equity-based or equity-related Award granted under Article 10 herein and subject to the terms of this Plan, and not otherwise described by the terms of this Plan. 
              2.42 
     Tandem SAR    means an SAR that the Committee specifies is granted in connection with a related Option pursuant to Article 7 herein and subject to the terms of this Plan, the exercise of which shall require forfeiture of the right to purchase a Share under the related Option (and when a Share is purchased under the Option, the Tandem SAR shall similarly be cancelled) or an SAR that is granted in tandem with an Option but the exercise of such Option does not cancel the SAR, but rather results in the exercise of the related SAR.  Regardless of whether an Option is granted coincident with an SAR, an SAR is not a Tandem SAR unless so specified by the Committee at time of grant. 
              2.43 
     Voting Power    shall mean such number of Voting Securities as shall enable the holders thereof to cast all the votes which could be cast in an annual election of directors of a company. 
              2.44 
    "Voting Securities"   shall mean all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual election of directors of a company. 
     Article 3.  Administration 
  3.1    General  .  The Committee shall be responsible for administering the Plan.  The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, agents, and other individuals, any of whom may be an Employee or Agent, and the Committee, the Company, and its officers and Directors shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions, or valuations of any such persons.  All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Participants, the Company, and all other interested parties.  
  3.2    Authority of the Committee  .  The Committee shall have full and exclusive discretionary power to interpret the terms and the intent of the Plan and any Award Agreement or other agreement ancillary to or in connection with the Plan, to determine eligibility for Awards, and to adopt such rules, regulations, and guidelines for administering the Plan as the Committee may deem necessary or proper.  Such authority shall include, but not be limited to, selecting Award recipients, establishing all Award terms and conditions and, subject to Article 16, adopting modifications and amendments, or subplans to the Plan or any Award Agreement, including, without limitation, any that are necessary or appropriate to comply with the laws or compensation practices of the countries and other jurisdictions in which the Company and Affiliates operate. 
  3.3    Delegation  .  The Committee may delegate to one or more of its members or to one or more officers of the Company or its Affiliates, any of its duties or powers as it may deem advisable;   provided, however  , that the Committee may not delegate any of its non-administrative powers with respect to Awards intended to be Performance-Based Compensation; and   provided further  , that the  
    7 

member(s) or officer(s) shall report periodically to the Committee regarding the nature and scope of the Awards granted pursuant to the authority delegated pursuant to this Section 3.3.  Subject to the terms of the previous sentence, the Committee may delegate to any individual(s) such administrative duties or powers as it may deem advisable 
  Article 4.  Shares Subject to the Plan and Maximum Awards 
  4.1    Number of Shares Available for Awards  .  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2 herein, the number of Shares hereby reserved for issuance to Participants under the Plan shall be sixty-eight million (68,000,000) plus any remaining Shares available for grant under the Predecessor Plan as set forth in Section 1.4 (such total number of Shares, including such adjustment and remaining Shares, the  Total Share Authorization ).  Any Shares issued in connection with an Option or SAR shall be counted against the limit as one (1) Share for every one (1) Share issued; for Awards other than Options and SARs, any Shares issued shall be counted against this limit as one and one-hundred seventy-nine thousandths (1.179) Shares for every one (1) Share issued.  The maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be granted in the form of Nonqualified Stock Options shall be equal to the Total Authorization.  The maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be granted in the form of Incentive Stock Options shall be sixty-eight million (68,000,000).   
  For greater clarity, any Awards that are not settled in Shares shall not reduce any of these reserves.  Any Shares related to Awards (or after the Effective Date, awards granted under the Predecessor Plan) which (i) terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such Shares, (ii) are settled in cash either in lieu of Shares or otherwise, or (iii) are exchanged with the Committee s permission for Awards not involving Shares, shall be available again for grant under the Plan.  Moreover, if the Option Price of any Option granted under the Plan or the tax withholding requirements with respect to any Award granted under the Plan are satisfied by tendering Shares to the Company (by either actual delivery or by attestation), or if an SAR is exercised, only the number of Shares issued, net of the Shares tendered, if any, will be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan.  The maximum number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan shall not be reduced to reflect any dividends or dividend equivalents that are reinvested into additional Shares or credited as additional Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, or Stock-Based Awards.  The Shares available for issuance under the Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares or treasury Shares. 
  Unless and until the Committee determines that an Award to an Insider shall not be designed to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the following limits ( Award Limits ) shall apply to grants of Awards to Insiders under the Plan:  
           (a) 
    Options and SARs  : The maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be granted in the form of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, pursuant to any Award granted in any one Fiscal Year to any one Participant, shall be two million (2,000,000). 
              (b) 
    Restricted Stock/Restricted Stock Units  : The maximum aggregate grant with respect to Awards of Restricted Stock/Restricted Stock Units granted in any one Fiscal Year to any one Participant shall be one million (1,000,000). 
       8 

(c) 
    Performance Shares/Performance Units  : The maximum aggregate Award of Performance Shares or Performance Units that a Participant may receive in any one Fiscal Year shall be one million (1,000,000) Shares, or equal to the value of one million (1,000,000) Shares determined as of the date of vesting or payout, as applicable. 
              (d) 
    Cash-Based Awards  : The maximum aggregate amount awarded or credited with respect to Cash-Based Awards to any one Participant in any one Fiscal Year may not exceed ten million dollars ($10,000,000) determined as of the date of vesting or payout, as applicable. 
              (e) 
    Stock Awards  :     The maximum aggregate grant with respect to Awards of   Stock-Based Awards in any one Fiscal Year to any one Participant shall be one million (1,000,000). 
     4.2    Adjustments in Authorized Shares  .  In the event of any corporate event or transaction (including, but not limited to, a change in the Shares of the Company or the capitalization of the Company) such as a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation, stock dividend, extraordinary dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of the Company, combination of securities, exchange of securities, dividend in kind, or other like change in capital structure or distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to shareholders of the Company, or any similar corporate event or transaction, the Committee, in its sole discretion, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants  rights under the Plan, shall substitute or adjust, as applicable, the number and kind of Shares that may be issued under the Plan, the number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding Awards, the Option Price or Grant Price applicable to outstanding Awards, the Award Limits, the limit on issuing Awards other than Options granted with an Option Price equal to at least the FMV of a Share on the date of grant or Stock Appreciation Rights with a Grant Price equal to at least the FMV of a Share on the date of grant, and any other value determinations applicable to outstanding Awards or to this Plan. 
  The Committee, in its sole discretion, may also make appropriate adjustments in the terms of any Awards under the Plan to reflect, or related to, such changes or distributions and may modify any other terms of outstanding Awards, including modifications of performance criteria and changes in the length of Performance Periods.  The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under the Plan.   
  Subject to the provisions of Article 15 and any applicable law or regulatory requirement, without affecting the number of Shares reserved or available hereunder, the Committee may authorize the issuance, assumption, substitution, or conversion of Awards under this Plan in connection with any such corporate event or transaction upon such terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate.  Additionally, the Committee may amend the Plan, or adopt supplements to the Plan, in such manner as it deems appropriate to provide for such issuance, assumption, substitution, or conversion as provided in the previous sentence. 
  Article 5.  Eligibility and Participation 
    9 

5.1    Eligibility  .  Individuals eligible to participate in the Plan include all Employees and Agents.   
  5.2    Actual Participation  .  Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may from time to time, select from all eligible Employees and Agents, those to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine in its discretion, the nature, terms, and amount of each Award. 
  Article 6.  Stock Options 
  6.1    Grant of Options  .  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee in its discretion.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no ISOs may be granted more than ten (10) years after the earlier of (a) adoption of the Plan by the Board, and (b) the Effective Date  .   
  6.2    Award Agreement  .  Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which the Option pertains, the conditions upon which an Option shall become vested and exercisable, and any such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.  The Award Agreement also shall specify whether the Option is intended to be an ISO or a NQSO. 
  6.3    Option Price  .  The Option Price for each grant of an Option under this Plan shall be determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the Award Agreement.  The Option Price may include an Option Price based on one hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, an Option Price that is set at a premium to the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, or an Option Price that is indexed to the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, with the index determined by the Committee in its discretion.  
  6.4    Duration of Options  .  Each Option granted to a Participant shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant; provided, however, no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10   th   ) anniversary date of its grant.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, for Options granted to Participants outside the United States, the Committee has the authority to grant Options that have a term greater than ten (10) years.   
  6.5    Exercise of Options  .  Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercisable at such times and on the occurrence of such events, and be subject to such restrictions and conditions, as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant. 
  6.6    Payment  .  Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercised by the delivery of a notice of exercise to the Company or an agent designated by the Company in a form specified or accepted by the Committee, or by complying with any alternative procedures which may be authorized by the Committee, setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares. 
  The Option Price upon exercise of any Option shall be payable to the Company in full either: (a) in cash or its equivalent; (b) by tendering (either by actual delivery or attestation) previously  
    10 

acquired Shares having an aggregate FMV at the time of exercise equal to the total Option Price; (c) by a combination of (a) and (b); or (d) any other method approved or accepted by the Committee in its sole discretion subject to such rules and regulations as the Committee may establish. 
  Subject to Section 6.7 and any governing rules or regulations, as soon as practicable after receipt of a notification of exercise and full payment, the Committee shall cause to be delivered to the Participant Share certificates or evidence of book entry Shares in an appropriate amount based upon the number of Shares purchased under the Option(s).  Unless otherwise determined or accepted by the Committee, all payments in cash shall be paid in United States dollars. 
  6.7    Restrictions on Share Transferability  .  The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option granted pursuant to this Plan as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, requiring the Participant to hold the Shares acquired pursuant to exercise for a specified period of time, or restrictions under applicable laws or under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are listed and/or traded. 
  6.8    Termination of Employment or Agency  .  Each Participant s Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participant s employment or Agency with the Company or Affiliates.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Options issued pursuant to this Article 6, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination. 
           6.9 
    Nontransferability of Options  . 
              (a) 
    Incentive Stock Options  .  No ISO granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  Further, all ISOs granted to a Participant under this Article 6 shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant. 
              (b) 
    Nonqualified Stock Options  .  Except as otherwise provided in a Participant s Award Agreement at the time of grant, or thereafter by the Committee, NQSO granted under this Article 6 may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant s Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee, all NQSOs granted to a Participant under this Article 6 shall be exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by such Participant. 
     6.10    Notification of Disqualifying Disposition  .  The Participant will notify the Company upon the disposition of Shares issued pursuant to the exercise of an ISO or Shares received as a dividend on ISO stock.  The Company will use such information to determine whether a disqualifying disposition as described in Section 421(b) of the Code has occurred. 
    11 

6.11    Substituting SARs  .  Regardless of the terms of the Award Agreement, the Committee, at any time when the Company is not subject accounting for equity-based compensation granted to its Employees under APB Opinion 25 (or a successor standard), shall have the right to substitute SARs for outstanding Options granted to any Participant, provided that (i) the substituted SARs call for settlement by the issuance of Shares or by the issuance of Shares or cash as determined by the Committee in its discretion, and (ii) the terms of the substituted SARs and economic benefit of such substituted SARs (including the difference between the Grant Price and Fair Market Value of the Shares associated with the SARs compared to the difference between the Option Price and Fair Market Value of the Shares underlying the Options) are equivalent to the terms and economic benefit of the Options being replaced, as determined by the Committee.  The Committee may, based on a determination that this Section 6.11 creates adverse accounting consequences for the Company or otherwise, nullify this Section 6.11. 
  Article 7.  Stock Appreciation Rights 
  7.1    Grant of SARs  .  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, SARs may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time and upon such terms as shall be determined by the Committee in its discretion.  The Committee may grant Freestanding SARs, Tandem SARs, or any combination of these forms of SARs.   
  The SAR Grant Price for each grant of a Freestanding SAR shall be determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the Award Agreement.  The SAR Grant Price may include a Grant Price based on one hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, a Grant Price that is set at a premium to the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, or is indexed to the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, with the index determined by the Committee, in its discretion.  The Grant Price of Tandem SARs shall be equal to the Option Price of the related Option.   
  7.2    SAR Agreement  .  Each SAR Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Grant Price, the term of the SAR, and any such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.   
  7.3    Term of SAR  .  The term of an SAR granted under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and except as determined otherwise by the Committee and specified in the SAR Award Agreement, no SAR shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10   th   ) anniversary date of its grant.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, for SARs granted to Participants outside the United States, the Committee has the authority to grant SARs that have a term greater than ten (10) years. 
  7.4    Exercise of Freestanding SARs  .  Freestanding SARs may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes. 
  7.5.    Exercise of Tandem SARs  .  Tandem SARs may be exercised for all or part of the Shares subject to the related Option upon the surrender of the right to exercise the equivalent portion of the related Option.  A Tandem SAR may be exercised only with respect to the Shares for which its related Option is then exercisable. 
    12 

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, with respect to a Tandem SAR granted in connection with an ISO: (a) the Tandem SAR will expire no later than the expiration of the underlying ISO; (b) the value of the payout with respect to the Tandem SAR may be for no more than one hundred percent (100%) of the difference between the Option Price of the underlying ISO and the FMV of the Shares subject to the underlying ISO at the time the Tandem SAR is exercised; and (c) the Tandem SAR may be exercised only when the FMV of the Shares subject to the ISO exceeds the Option Price of the ISO. 
  7.6    Payment of SAR Amount  .  Upon the exercise of an SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying: 
           (a) 
    The difference between the FMV of a Share on the date of exercise over the Grant Price; by 
              (b) 
    The number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised. 
     At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, Shares of equivalent value (based on the FMV on the date of exercise of the SAR, as defined in the Award Agreement or otherwise defined by the Committee thereafter), in some combination thereof, or in any other form approved by the Committee at its sole discretion.  The Committee s determination regarding the form of SAR payout shall be set forth or reserved for later determination in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the SAR. 
  7.7    Termination of Employment or Agency  .  Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the SAR following termination of the Participant s employment or Agency with the Company or Affiliates.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all SARs issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination. 
  7.8    Nontransferability of SARs  .  Except as otherwise provided in a Participant s Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee, an SAR granted under the Plan may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant s Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee, all SARs granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant. 
  7.9    Other Restrictions  .  Without limiting the generality of any other provision of this Plan, the Committee may impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares received upon exercise of an SAR granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable.  This includes, but is not limited to, requiring the Participant to hold the Shares received upon exercise of an SAR for a specified period of time.   
  Article 8.  Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units 
  8.1    Grant of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units  .  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of  
    13 

Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee shall determine.   
  8.2    Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Agreement  .  Each Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Unit grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock or the number of Restricted Stock Units granted, and any such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.   
  8.3    Nontransferability of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units  .  Except as otherwise provided in this Plan or the Award Agreement, the Shares of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units granted herein may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the end of the applicable Period of Restriction specified in the Award Agreement (and in the case of Restricted Stock Units until the date of delivery or other payment), or upon earlier satisfaction of any other conditions, as specified by the Committee in its sole discretion and set forth in the Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee.  All rights with respect to the Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be available during his or her lifetime only to such Participant, except as otherwise provided in the Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee.   
  8.4    Other Restrictions  .  The Committee shall impose, in the Award Agreement at the time of grant or anytime thereafter, such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Plan as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock or each Restricted Stock Unit, restrictions based upon the achievement of specific performance criteria, time-based restrictions on vesting following the attainment of the performance criteria, time-based restrictions, restrictions under applicable laws or under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are listed or traded, or holding requirements or sale restrictions placed on the Shares by the Company upon vesting of such Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.   
  To the extent deemed appropriate by the Committee subject to Section 19.6, the Company may retain the certificates representing Shares of Restricted Stock, or Shares delivered in consideration of Restricted Stock Units, in the Company s possession until such time as all conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse.   
  Except as otherwise provided in this Article 8, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock Award shall become freely transferable by the Participant after all conditions and restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse, and Restricted Stock Units shall be paid in cash, Shares, or a combination of cash and Shares as the Committee, in its sole discretion shall determine.   
  8.5    Certificate Legend  .  In addition to any legends placed on certificates pursuant to Section 8.4 herein, each certificate representing Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to the Plan may bear a legend such as the following: 
    14 

The sale or other transfer of the Shares of stock represented by this certificate, whether voluntary, involuntary, or by operation of law, is subject to certain restrictions on transfer as set forth in the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, and in the associated Award Agreement.  A copy of the Plan and such Award Agreement may be obtained from MetLife, Inc. 
  8.6    Voting Rights  .  To the extent required by law, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall be granted the right to exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of Restriction.  A Participant shall have no voting rights with respect to any Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder. 
  8.7    Dividends and Other Distributions  .  During the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder may, if the Committee so determines, be credited with dividends paid with respect to the underlying Shares or dividend equivalents while they are so held in a manner determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.  The Committee may apply any restrictions to the dividends or dividend equivalents that the Committee deems appropriate.  The Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine the form of payment of dividends or dividend equivalents, including cash, Shares, Restricted Stock, or Restricted Stock Units. 
  8.8    Termination of Employment and Agency  .  Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units following termination of the Participant s employment or Agency with the Company or Affiliates.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination. 
  8.9    Payment in Consideration of Restricted Stock Units  .  When and if Restricted Stock Units become payable, a Participant having received the grant of such units shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in cash, Shares of equivalent value (based on the FMV, as defined in the Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee), in some combination thereof, or in any other form determined by the Committee at its sole discretion.  The Committee s determination regarding the form of payout shall be set forth or reserved for later determination in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the Restricted Stock Unit. 
  Article 9.  Performance Shares and Performance Units 
  9.1    Grant of Performance Shares and Performance Units  .  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Performance Shares and/or Performance Units to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee shall determine. 
  9.2    Value of Performance Shares and Performance Units  .  Each Performance Share shall have an initial value equal to the FMV of a Share on the date of grant.  Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value that is established by the Committee at the time of grant which may be less than, equal to, or greater than the FMV of a Share.  The Committee shall set performance criteria for a  
    15 

Performance Period in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine, in the manner determined by the Committee and documented in the Award Agreement the value and/or number of each Performance Share or Performance Unit that will be paid to the Participant. 
  9.3    Earning of Performance Shares and Performance Units  .  Subject to the terms of this Plan, after the applicable Performance Period has ended, the holder of Performance Shares/Performance Units shall be entitled to receive payout on the value and number of Performance Shares/Performance Units determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance criteria have been achieved.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company has the ability to require the Participant to hold the Shares received pursuant to such Award for a specified period of time. 
  9.4    Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Shares and Performance Units  .  Payment of earned Performance Shares/Performance Units shall be as determined by the Committee and as evidenced in the Award Agreement.  Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Shares/Performance Units in the form of cash or in Shares (or in a combination thereof) equal to the value of the earned Performance Shares/Performance Units at the close of the applicable Performance Period.  Any Shares may be granted subject to any restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee.  The determination of the Committee with respect to the form of payout of such Awards shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the Award or reserved for later determination. 
  9.5    Dividends and Other Distributions  .  The Committee will decide if Participants holding Performance Shares will receive dividend equivalents with respect to dividends declared with respect to the Shares.  Such dividends may be subject to the accrual, forfeiture, or payout restrictions as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. 
  9.6    Termination of Employment or Agency  .  Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Performance Shares/Performance Units following termination of the Participant s employment or Agency with the Company or an Affiliate.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Awards of Performance Shares/Performance Units issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination. 
  9.7    Nontransferability of Performance Shares and Performance Units  .  Except as otherwise provided in a Participant s Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee, Performance Shares/Performance Units may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant s Award Agreement or otherwise by the Committee at any time, a Participant s rights under the Plan shall inure during his or her lifetime only to such Participant. 
  Article 10.  Cash-Based Awards and Stock-Based Awards 
    16 

10.1    Grant of Cash-Based Awards  .  Subject to the terms and provisions of this Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time and time, may grant Cash-Based Awards to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee may determine. 
  10.2    Value of Cash-Based Awards  .  Each Cash-Based Award shall have a value as may be determined by the Committee.  For each Cash-Based Award, the Committee may establish performance criteria in its discretion.  If the Committee exercises its discretion to establish such performance criteria, the number and/or value of Cash-Based Awards that will be paid out to the Participant will be determined, in the manner determined by the Committee, the extent to which the performance criteria are met.   
  10.3    Payment in Consideration of Cash-Based Awards  .  Subject to the terms of this Plan, the holder of a Cash-Based Award shall be entitled to receive payout on the value of Cash-Based Award determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance criteria, if any, have been achieved. 
  10.4    Form and Timing of Payment of Cash-Based Awards  .  Payment of earned Cash-Based Awards shall be as determined by the Committee and evidenced in the Award Agreement.  Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Cash-Based Awards in the form of cash or in Shares (or in a combination thereof) that have an aggregate FMV equal to the value of the earned Cash-Based Awards (the applicable date regarding which aggregate FMV shall be determined by the Committee).  Such Shares may be granted subject to any restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee.  The determination of the Committee with respect to the form of payout of such Awards shall be set forth in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the Award. 
  10.5    Stock-Based Awards  .  The Committee may grant other types of equity-based or equity-related Awards not otherwise described by the terms of this Plan (including the grant or offer for sale of unrestricted Shares) in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions including, but not limited to being subject to performance criteria, or in satisfaction of such obligations, as the Committee shall determine.  Such Awards may entail the transfer of actual Shares to Participants, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the value of Shares and may include, without limitation, Awards designed to comply with or take advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than the United States.   
  10.6    Termination of Employment or Agency  .  Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive Cash-Based Awards and Stock-Based Awards following termination of the Participant s employment or Agency with the Company or Affiliates.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the applicable Award Agreement, need not be uniform among all Awards of Cash-Based Awards and Stock-Based Awards issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.   
  10.7    Nontransferability of Cash-Based Awards and Stock-Based Awards  .  Except as otherwise provided in a Participant s Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee, Cash-Based Awards and Stock-Based Awards may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and  
    17 

distribution.  Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant s Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee, a Participant s rights under the Plan shall be exercisable during the Participant s lifetime only by the Participant. 
  Article 11.  Performance Measures 
  Notwithstanding any other terms of this Plan, the vesting, payability, or value (as determined by the Committee) of each Award other than an Option or SAR that, at the time of grant, the Committee intends to be Performance-Based Compensation to an Insider shall be determined by the attainment of one or more Performance Goals as determined by the Committee in conformity with Code Section 162(m).  The Committee shall specify in writing, by resolution or otherwise, the Participants eligible to receive such an Award (which may be expressed in terms of a class of individuals) and the Performance Goal(s) applicable to such Awards within ninety (90) days after the commencement of the period to which the Performance Goal(s) relate(s) or such earlier time as required to comply with Code Section 162(m).  No such Award shall be payable unless the Committee certifies in writing, by resolution or otherwise, that the Performance Goal(s) applicable to the Award were satisfied.  In no case may the Committee increase the value of an Award of Performance-Based Compensation above the maximum value determined under the performance formula by the attainment of the applicable Performance Goal(s), but the Committee may retain the discretion to reduce the value below such maximum. 
  Unless and until the Committee proposes for shareholder vote and the shareholders approve a change in the general Performance Measures set forth in this Article 11, the Performance Goal(s) upon which the payment or vesting of an Award to an Insider that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation shall be limited to the following Performance Measures: 
           (a) 
    Net earnings or net income (before or after taxes); 
              (b) 
    Earnings per share; 
              (c) 
    Net sales growth; 
              (d) 
    Net operating profit; 
              (e) 
    Operating earnings; 
              (f) 
    Operating earnings per share; 
              (g) 
    Return measures (including, but not limited to, return on assets, capital, equity, or sales); 
              (h) 
    Cash flow (including, but not limited to, operating cash flow, free cash flow, and cash flow return on capital); 
              (i) 
    Earnings before or after taxes, interest, depreciation, and/or amortization and including/excluding capital gains and losses; 
              (j) 
    Gross or operating margins; 
              (k) 
    Productivity ratios; 
              (l) 
    Share price (including, but not limited to, growth measures and total shareholder return); 
              (m) 
    Expense targets; 
              (n) 
    Margins; 
              (o) 
    Operating efficiency; 
              (p) 
    Customer satisfaction; 
              (q) 
    Employee and/or Agent satisfaction;  
              (r) 
    Working capital targets; and 
       18 

(s) 
    Economic Value Added; 
              (t) 
    Revenue growth; 
              (u) 
    Assets under management growth; and 
              (v) 
    Rating Agencies  ratings. 
       
  Any Performance Measure(s) may be used to measure the performance of the Company as a whole or any business unit of the Company or any combination thereof, as the Committee may deem appropriate, or any of the above Performance Measures as compared to the performance of a group of comparator companies, or published or special index that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.  In the Award Agreement, the Committee also has the authority to provide for accelerated vesting of any Award based on the achievement of Performance Goal(s).   
  The Committee may provide in any Award Agreement that any evaluation of attainment of a Performance Goal may include or exclude any of the following events that occurs during the relevant period:  (a) asset write-downs; (b) litigation or claim judgments or settlements; (c) the effect of changes in tax laws, accounting principles, or other laws or provisions affecting reported results; (d) any reorganization and restructuring programs; (e) extraordinary nonrecurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Company s annual report to shareholders for the applicable year; (f) acquisitions or divestitures; and (g) foreign exchange gains and losses.  To the extent such inclusions or exclusions affect Awards to Insiders, they shall be prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility. 
  In the event that applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit Committee discretion to alter the governing Performance Measures without obtaining shareholder approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such changes without obtaining shareholder approval.  In addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards to Insiders that shall not qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m). 
  Article 12.  Beneficiary Designation 
  A Participant s  beneficiary  is the person or persons entitled to receive payments or other benefits or exercise rights that are available under the Plan in the event of the Participant s death.  A Participant may designate a beneficiary or change a previous beneficiary designation at such times prescribed by the Committee by using forms and following procedures approved or accepted by the Committee for that purpose.  If no beneficiary designated by the Participant is eligible to receive payments or other benefits or exercise rights that are available under the Plan at the Participant s death the beneficiary shall be the Participant s estate.   
  Notwithstanding the provisions above, the Committee may in its discretion, after notifying the affected Participants, modify the foregoing requirements, institute additional requirements for beneficiary designations, or suspend the existing beneficiary designations of living Participants or the process of determining beneficiaries under this Article 12, or both, in favor of another method of determining beneficiaries.   
    19 

Article 13.  Deferrals and Share Settlements 
  Notwithstanding any other provision under the Plan, the Committee may permit or require a Participant to defer such Participant s receipt of any Award, or payment in consideration of any Award, under the terms of this Plan or another Plan.  To the extent such deferral is permitted by the Committee under the terms of this Plan rather than another Plan, the Committee shall establish rules and procedures for such deferrals as it sees fit. 
  Article 14.  Rights of Employees and Agents 
  14.1    Employment  .  Nothing in the Plan or an Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate any Participant s employment, Agency or other service relationship at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the capacity in which he or she is employed or otherwise serves the Company or an Affiliate.   
  Neither an Award nor any benefits arising under this Plan shall constitute part of an employment or Agency contract with the Company or an Affiliate and, accordingly, subject to the terms of this Plan, this Plan may be terminated or modified at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Committee without giving rise to liability on the part of the Company or an Affiliate for severance payments or otherwise except as provided in this Plan. 
  For purposes of the Plan, unless otherwise provided by the Committee, transfer of employment or Agency of a Participant between the Company and an Affiliate or among Affiliates, shall not be deemed a termination of employment or Agency.  The Committee may stipulate in a Participant s Award Agreement or otherwise the conditions under which a transfer of employment or Agency to an entity that is spun-off from the Company or an Affiliate or a vendor to the Company or an Affiliate, if any, shall not be deemed a termination of employment or Agency for purposes of an Award. 
  14.2    Participation  .  No Employee or Agent shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award.  No Employee or Agent, having been selected to receive an Award, shall have the right to be selected to receive a future Award or (if selected to receive such a future Award) the right to receive such a future Award on terms and conditions identical or in proportion in any way to any prior Award. 
  14.3    Rights as a Shareholder  .  A Participant shall have none of the rights of a shareholder with respect to Shares covered by any Award until the Participant becomes the record holder of such Shares. 
  Article 15.  Change of Control 
  15.1    Accelerated Vesting and Payment  .  Subject to the provisions of Section 15.2 or as otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, in the event of a Change of Control, unless otherwise specifically prohibited under law or by the rules and regulations of a national security exchange: 
           (a) 
    Any and all Options and SARs granted hereunder shall become immediately exercisable; additionally, if a Participant s employment or Agency is involuntarily terminated for any reason except Cause within twelve (12) months of such Change in Control, the Participant shall have until the earlier of (i) twelve (12) months  
       20 

following such termination date , or (ii) the term of the Option or SAR, to exercise such Options or SARs; 
           (b) 
    Any Period of Restriction and other restrictions imposed on Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall lapse, and Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately payable; 
              (c) 
    The target payout opportunities attainable under all outstanding Awards of performance-based Restricted Stock, performance-based Restricted Stock Units, Performance Units, and Performance Shares (including but not limited to Awards intended to be Performance-Based Compensation) shall be deemed to have been fully earned based on targeted performance being attained as of the effective date of the Change of Control: 
              (i) 
    The vesting of all Awards denominated in Shares shall be accelerated as of the effective date of the Change of Control, and shall be paid out to Participants within thirty (30) days following the effective date of the Change of Control; and 
              (ii) 
    Awards denominated in cash shall be paid to Participants in cash within thirty (30) days following the effective date of the Change of Control;  
              (d) 
    Upon a Change of Control, unless otherwise specifically provided in a written agreement entered into between the Participant and the Company or an Affiliate, the Committee shall immediately vest and pay out all Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards as determined by the Committee; and 
              (e) 
    The Committee shall have the ability to unilaterally determine that all outstanding Awards are cancelled upon a Change in Control, and the value of such Awards, as determined by the Committee in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the Award Agreement, be paid out in cash in an amount based on the Change of Control Price within a reasonable time subsequent to the Change in Control;   provided, however  , that no such payment shall be made on account of an ISO using a value higher than the FMV on the date of settlement.   
     15.2    Alternative Awards.    Notwithstanding Section 15.1, no cancellation, acceleration of vesting, lapsing of restrictions, payment of Award, cash settlement or other payment shall occur with respect to any Award if the Committee reasonably determines in good faith prior to the occurrence of a Change of Control that such Award shall be honored or assumed, or new rights substituted therefor (such honored, assumed or substituted Award hereinafter called an  Alternative Award ) by any successor as described in Article 18; provided that any such Alternative Award must: 
           (a) 
    Be based on stock which is traded on an established U.S. securities market, or that the Committee reasonably believes will be so traded within sixty (60) days after the Change of Control; 
       21 

(b) 
    Provide such Participant with rights and entitlements substantially equivalent to or better than the rights, terms and conditions applicable under such Award, including, but not limited to, an identical or better exercise or vesting schedule and identical or better timing and methods of payment; 
              (c) 
    Have substantially equivalent economic value to such Award (determined at the time of the Change of Control); and 
              (d) 
    Have terms and conditions which provide that in the event that the Participant s employment or Agency is involuntarily terminated or Constructively Terminated, any conditions on a Participant s rights under, or any restrictions on transfer or exercisability applicable to, each such Alternative Award shall be waived or shall lapse, as the case may be. 
     Article 16.  Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination 
  16.1    Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination  .  The Committee or Board may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify, suspend, or terminate the Plan in whole or in part; provided however, that: 
           (a) 
    Without the prior approval of the Company s shareholders, Options and SARs issued under the Plan will not be repriced, replaced, or regranted through cancellation or by lowering the exercise price of a previously granted Option. 
              (b) 
    To the extent necessary under any applicable law, regulation or exchange requirement, no amendment shall be effective unless approved by the shareholders of the Company in accordance with applicable law, regulation, or exchange requirement. 
     16.2    Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events  .  The Committee may make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events described in Section 4.2 hereof) affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan.  The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under the Plan.  To the extent such adjustment affects Awards to Insiders intended to be Performance-Based Compensation, they shall be prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility. 
  16.3    Awards Previously Granted  .  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, no termination, amendment, suspension, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award. 
    22 

Article 17.  Withholding 
  The Company or any Affiliate shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company or any Affiliate, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign (including the Participant s FICA obligation), required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising or as a result of this Plan.  The Committee may provide for Participants to satisfy withholding requirements by having the Company withhold Shares or the Participant making such other arrangements, in either case on such conditions as the Committee specifies. 
  Article 18.  Successors 
  Any obligations of the Company or an Affiliate under the Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company or Affiliate, respectively, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company or Affiliate, as applicable. 
  Article 19.  General Provisions 
  19.1    Forfeiture Events  .     Without limiting in any way the generality of the Committee s power to specify any terms and conditions of an Award consistent with law, and for greater clarity, the Committee may specify in an Award Agreement that the Participant s rights, payments, and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture, or recoupment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award.  Such events shall include, but shall not be limited to, failure to accept the terms of the Award Agreement, termination of employment or Agency under certain or all circumstances, violation of material Company and Affiliate policies, breach of noncompetition, confidentiality, nonsolicitation, noninterference, corporate property protection, or other agreement that may apply to the Participant, or other conduct by the Participant that is detrimental to the business or reputation of the Company and Affiliates.   
  19.2    Legend  .  The certificates for Shares may include any legend that the Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on transfer of such Shares. 
  19.3    Delivery of Title  .  The Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver evidence of title for Shares issued under the Plan prior to: 
           (a) 
    Obtaining any approvals from governmental agencies that the Company determines are necessary or advisable; and 
              (b) 
    Completion of any registration or other qualification of the Shares under any applicable national or foreign law or ruling of any governmental body that the Company determines to be necessary or advisable. 
     19.4    Investment Representations  .  The Committee may require each Participant receiving Shares pursuant to an Award under this Plan to represent and warrant in writing that the Participant is  
    23 

acquiring the Shares for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares. 
  19.5    Employees and Agents Based Outside of the United States  .  Without limiting in any way the generality of the Committee s powers under this Plan, including but not limited to the power to specify any terms and conditions of an Award consistent with law, in order to comply with the laws in other countries in which the Company or an Affiliate operates or has Employees or Agents, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the power and authority, notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, to: 
           (a) 
    Determine which Affiliates shall be covered by the Plan; 
              (b) 
    Determine which Employees and Agents outside the United States are eligible to participate in the Plan; 
              (c) 
    Modify the terms and conditions of any Award granted to Employees or Agents outside the United States to comply with applicable foreign laws; 
              (d) 
    Establish subplans and modify exercise procedures and other terms and procedures, to the extent such actions may be necessary or advisable.  Any   subplans and modifications to Plan terms and procedures established under this Section 19.5 by the Committee shall be attached to this Plan document as appendices; and 
              (e) 
    Take any action, before or after an Award is made, that it deems advisable to obtain approval or comply with any necessary local government regulatory exemptions or approvals. 
     Notwithstanding the above, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder and no Awards shall be granted that would violate the Exchange Act, the Code, any securities law, or governing statute or any other applicable law. 
  19.6    Uncertificated Shares  .  To the extent that the Plan provides for issuance of certificates to reflect the transfer of Shares, the transfer of such Shares may be effected on a noncertificated basis to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange. 
  19.7    Unfunded Plan  .  Participants shall have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company or an Affiliate may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under the Plan.  Nothing contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or an Affiliate and any Participant, beneficiary, legal representative, or any other person.  Awards shall be general, unsecured obligations of the Company, except that if an Affiliate executes an Award Agreement instead of the Company the Award shall be a general, unsecured obligation of the Affiliate and not any obligation of the Company.  To the extent that any individual acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or an Affiliate, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company or Affiliate, as applicable.  All payments to be made  
    24 

hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the Company or Affiliate, as applicable, and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as expressly set forth in the Plan.  The Plan is not intended to be subject to ERISA. 
  19.8    No Fractional Shares  .  No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award Agreement.  In such an instance, unless the Committee determines otherwise, fractional Shares and any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated. 
  19.9    Other Compensation and Benefit Plans.    Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to limit the right of the Company or an Affiliate to establish other compensation or benefit plans, programs, policies, or arrangements.  Except as may be otherwise specifically stated in any other benefit plan, policy, program, or arrangement, no Award shall be treated as compensation for purposes of calculating a Participant s rights under any such other plan, policy, program, or arrangement. 
  19.10    No Constraint on Corporate Action  .  Nothing in this Plan shall be construed (  i  ) to limit, impair or otherwise affect the Company s or an Affiliate s right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets, or (  ii  ) to limit the right or power of the Company or an Affiliate to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate. 
  Article 20.  Legal Construction 
  20.1    Gender and Number  .  Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural. 
  20.2    Severability  .  In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included. 
  20.3    Requirements of Law  .  The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.  The Company or an Affiliate shall receive the consideration required by law for the issuance of Awards under the Plan. 
  The inability of the Company or an Affiliate to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company s or the Affiliate s counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company or Affiliate of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. 
  20.4    Governing Law  .  The Plan and each Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.   
    25 

</EX-10.24>

<EX-10.25>
 6
 met-20141231xex1025.htm
 EX-10.25

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.25 

Exhibit 10.25 
  MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan 
  Effective April 15, 2005 

MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan 
  Article 1.  Establishment, Purpose, and Duration 
  1.1    Establishment of the Plan  .  MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (hereinafter referred to as the  Company ), establishes an incentive compensation plan to be known as the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan (hereinafter referred to as the  Plan ), as set forth in this document. 
  The Plan permits the grant of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, and Stock-Based Awards. 
  1.2    Purpose of the Plan  .  The purpose of the Plan is to promote the long-term interests of the Company and its shareholders by strengthening the Company s ability to attract, motivate, and retain well qualified individuals as Non-Management Directors of the Company upon whose judgment, initiative, and efforts the financial success and growth of the business of the Company largely depend, and to provide an additional incentive for such individuals through stock ownership and other rights that promote and recognize the financial success and growth of the Company and create value for shareholders. 
  1.3        Duration of the Plan  .  The Plan shall commence as of the Effective Date and shall remain in effect until the earlier of (i) the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date, or (ii) all Shares subject to the Plan have been purchased or acquired according to the Plan s provisions, in each case subject to the right of the Committee or the Board to amend or terminate the Plan at any time pursuant to Article 13 herein.   
  Article 2.  Definitions 
  Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meaning set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized.   
           2.1 
     Affiliate    shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations of the Exchange Act, with reference to the Company, and shall also include any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, or other entity in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of the total combined Voting Power of such corporation or of the capital interest or profits interest of such partnership or other entity. 
              2.2 
     Award    means, individually or collectively, a grant of Options, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, or Stock-Based Awards, in each case under and subject to the terms of this Plan. 
              2.3 
     Award Agreement    means either (i) a written agreement entered into by the Company and a Participant setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to Awards granted under this Plan; or (ii) a written statement issued by the Company to a Participant describing the terms and provisions of such Award. 
       1 

2.4 
     Beneficial Owner  or  Beneficial Ownership    shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act. 
              2.5 
     Board  or  Board of Directors    means the Board of Directors of the Company. 
              2.6 
     Code    means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, or any successor thereto. 
              2.7 
     Committee    means the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors, or any other duly authorized committee of the Board appointed by the Board to administer the Plan. 
              2.8 
     Company    means MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto as provided in Article 14 herein. 
              2.9 
     Director    means any individual who is a member of the Board of Directors of the Company. 
               2.11 
     Employee    means any employee of the Company or an Affiliate. 
              2.12 
     Exchange Act    means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor act thereto. 
              2.13 
     Fair Market Value    or    FMV    means a price that is based on the opening, closing, actual, high, low, or average selling prices of a Share on the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) or other established stock exchange (or exchanges) on the applicable date, the preceding trading day, the next succeeding trading day, or an average of trading days, as determined by the Committee in its discretion.  Such definition(s) of FMV shall be specified in each Award Agreement and may differ depending on whether FMV is in reference to the grant, exercise, vesting, settlement, or payout of an Award.  If, however, the accounting standards used to account for equity awards granted to Participants are substantially modified subsequent to the Effective Date of the Plan, the Committee shall have the ability to determine an Award s FMV based on the relevant facts and circumstances.  If Shares are not traded on an established stock exchange, FMV shall be determined by the Committee based on objective criteria. 
              2.14 
     Freestanding SAR    means an SAR that is not a Tandem SAR, as described in Article 7 herein. 
              2.15 
     Grant Price    means the price against which the amount payable is determined upon exercise of an SAR. 
              2.16 
     Non-Management Director    means a Director who is not an Employee. 
       2 

2.17 
     Option    means the conditional right to purchase Shares at a stated Option Price for a specified period of time, subject to the terms of this Plan.   Each Option shall be a Nonqualified Stock Option, in that no Option shall be an Incentive Stock Option intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code. 
              2.18 
     Option Price    means the price at which a Share may be purchased by a Participant pursuant to an Option, as determined by the Committee. 
              2.19 
     Participant    means an Non-Management Director who has received an Award, or who has an outstanding Award granted under the Plan. 
              2.20 
     Period of Restriction    means the period when an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit is subject to forfeiture based on the passage of time, the achievement of performance goals, and/or upon the occurrence of other events as determined by the Committee, in its discretion. 
              2.21 
     Restricted Stock    means an Award of Shares subject to a Period of Restriction, granted under Article 8 herein and subject to the terms of this Plan. 
              2.22 
     Restricted Stock Unit    means an Award denominated in units subject to a Period of Restriction, granted under Article 8 herein and subject to the terms of this Plan. 
              2.23 
     Shares    means the shares of common stock of the Company, $.01 par value per Share. 
              2.24 
     Stock Appreciation Right    or    SAR    means the conditional right to receive the difference between the FMV of a Share on the date of exercise over the Grant Price, pursuant to the terms of Article 7 herein and subject to the terms of this Plan. 
              2.25 
     Stock-Based Award    means an equity-based or equity-related Award granted under Article 9 herein and subject to the terms of this Plan, and not otherwise described by the terms of this Plan. 
              2.26 
     Tandem SAR    means an SAR that the Committee specifies is granted in connection with a related Option pursuant to Article 7 herein and subject to the terms of this Plan, the exercise of which shall require forfeiture of the right to purchase a Share under the related Option (and when a Share is purchased under the Option, the Tandem SAR shall similarly be cancelled) or an SAR that is granted in tandem with an Option but the exercise of such Option does not cancel the SAR, but rather results in the exercise of the related SAR.  Regardless of whether an Option is granted coincident with an SAR, an SAR is not a Tandem SAR unless so specified by the Committee at time of grant. 
              2.27 
     Voting Power    shall mean such number of Voting Securities as shall enable the holders thereof to cast all the votes which could be cast in an annual election of directors of a company. 
       3 

2.28 
    "Voting Securities"   shall mean all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual election of directors of a company. 
     Article 3.  Administration 
  3.1    General  .  The Committee shall be responsible for administering the Plan.  All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Participants, the Company, and all other interested parties.   
  3.2    Authority of the Committee  .  The Committee shall have full and exclusive discretionary power to interpret the terms and the intent of the Plan and any Award Agreement or other agreement ancillary to or in connection with the Plan, and to adopt such rules, regulations, and guidelines for administering the Plan as the Committee may deem necessary or proper.  Such authority shall include, but not be limited to, establishing all Award terms and conditions and, subject to Article 13 and Section 6.3, adopting modifications and amendments to the Plan or any Award Agreement. 
  3.3    Delegation  .  The Committee may delegate to one or more of its members or to one or more officers of the Company or its Affiliates, or to any other individual(s) such administrative duties or powers as it may deem advisable, and the Committee or any individual to whom it has delegated duties or powers as aforesaid may employ one or more individuals to render advice with respect to any responsibility the Committee or such individual may have under the Plan.   
  Article 4.  Shares Subject to the Plan and Maximum Awards 
  4.1    Number of Shares Available for Awards  .  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2 herein, the number of Shares hereby reserved for issuance to Participants under the Plan shall be two million (2,000,000).  The maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be granted in any one calendar year to any one Participant under the Plan shall be twenty-five thousand (25,000). 
  Any Shares related to Awards  which (i) terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such Shares, (ii) are settled in cash either in lieu of Shares or otherwise, or (iii) are exchanged with the Committee s permission for Awards not involving Shares, shall be available again for grant under the Plan.  Moreover, if the Option Price of any Option granted under the Plan or the tax withholding requirements with respect to any Award granted under the Plan are satisfied by tendering Shares to the Company (by either actual delivery or by attestation), or if an SAR is exercised, only the number of Shares issued, net of the Shares tendered, if any, will be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan.  The maximum number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan shall not be reduced to reflect any dividends or dividend equivalents that are reinvested into additional Shares or credited as additional Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, or Stock-Based Awards.  The Shares available for issuance under the Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares or treasury Shares. 
  4.2    Adjustments in Authorized Shares  .  In the event of any corporate event or transaction (including, but not limited to, a change in the Shares of the Company or the capitalization of the Company) such as a merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation, stock dividend, extraordinary dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of the Company, combination of securities, exchange of securities,  
    4 

dividend in kind, or other like change in capital structure or distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to shareholders of the Company, or any similar corporate event or transaction, the Committee, in its sole discretion, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants  rights under the Plan, shall substitute or adjust, as applicable, the number and kind of Shares that may be issued under the Plan, the number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding Awards, the Option Price or Grant Price applicable to outstanding Awards, the annual Participant Share Award limit, and any other value determinations applicable to outstanding Awards or to this Plan. 
  The Committee, in its sole discretion, may also make appropriate adjustments in the terms of any Awards under the Plan to reflect, or related to, such changes or distributions and may modify any other terms of outstanding Awards.  The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under the Plan.   
  Subject to the provisions of Article 13, Section 6.3, and any applicable law or regulatory requirement, without affecting the number of Shares reserved or available hereunder, the Committee may authorize the issuance, assumption, substitution, or conversion of Awards under this Plan in connection with any such corporate event or transaction upon such terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate. 
  Article 5.  Eligibility and Participation 
  5.1    Eligibility  .  Individuals eligible to participate in the Plan include all Non-Management Directors.   
  5.2    Participation  .  Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee from time to time may make Awards and determine in its discretion, the nature, terms, and amount of each Award. 
  Article 6.  Stock Options 
  6.1    Grant of Options  .  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee in its discretion. 
  6.2    Award Agreement  .  Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the duration of the Option, the number of Shares to which the Option pertains, the conditions upon which an Option shall become vested and exercisable, and any such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.   
  6.3    Option Price  .  The Option Price for each grant of an Option under this Plan shall be determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the Award Agreement.  The Option Price may include an Option Price based on one hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, an Option Price that is set at a premium to the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, or an Option Price that is indexed to the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, with the index determined by the Committee in its discretion.  Without the prior approval of the Company s shareholders, Options issued under the Plan will not be repriced, replaced, or regranted through cancellation, or by lowering the exercise price of a previously granted Option.   
    5 

6.4    Duration of Options  .  Each Option granted to a Participant shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant; provided, however, no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10   th   ) anniversary date of its grant. 
  6.5    Exercise of Options  .  Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercisable at such times and on the occurrence of such events, and be subject to such restrictions and conditions, as the Committee shall in each instance approve, which need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant. 
  6.6    Restrictions on Share Transferability  .  The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option granted pursuant to this Plan as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, requiring the Participant to hold the Shares acquired pursuant to exercise for a specified period of time, or restrictions under applicable laws or under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are listed and/or traded. 
  6.7    Termination of Directorship  .  Each Participant s Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participant s service as a Director.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Options issued pursuant to this Article 6, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination. 
  6.8    Nontransferability of Options  . Except as otherwise provided in a Participant s Award Agreement at the time of grant, or thereafter by the Committee, Options granted under this Article 6 may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant s Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee, all Options granted to a Participant under this Article 6 shall be exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by such Participant.  
  6.9    Substituting SARs  .  Regardless of the terms of the Award Agreement, the Committee, at any time when the Company is subject to fair value accounting for equity-based compensation, shall have the right to substitute SARs for outstanding Options granted to any Participant, provided the substituted SARs call for settlement by the issuance of Shares, and the terms of the substituted SARs and economic benefit of such substituted SARs are equivalent to the terms and economic benefit of the Options being replaced, as determined by the Committee. 
  6.10    Payment for Options  .  Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercised by the delivery of a notice of exercise to the Company or an agent designated by the Company in a form specified or accepted by the Committee, or by complying with any alternative procedures which may be authorized by the Committee, setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares. 
  The Option Price upon exercise of any Option shall be payable to the Company in full either: (a) in cash or its equivalent; (b) by tendering (either by actual delivery or attestation) previously acquired Shares having an aggregate FMV at the time of exercise equal to the total Option Price; (c)  
    6 

by a combination of (a) and (b); or (d) any other method approved or accepted by the Committee in its sole discretion subject to such rules and regulations as the Committee may establish. 
  Subject to Section 6.7 and any governing rules or regulations, as soon as practicable after receipt of a notification of exercise and full payment, the Committee shall cause to be delivered to the Participant Share certificates or evidence of book entry Shares in an appropriate amount based upon the number of Shares purchased under the Option(s).  Unless otherwise determined or accepted by the Committee, all payments in cash shall be paid in United States dollars. 
  Article 7.  Stock Appreciation Rights 
  7.1    Grant of SARs  .  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, SARs may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time and upon such terms as shall be determined by the Committee in its discretion.  The Committee may grant Freestanding SARs, Tandem SARs, or any combination of these forms of SARs.   
  The SAR Grant Price for each grant of a Freestanding SAR shall be determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the Award Agreement.  The SAR Grant Price may include (but not be limited to) a Grant Price based on one hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, a Grant Price that is set at a premium to the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, or is indexed to the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, with the index determined by the Committee, in its discretion.  The Grant Price of Tandem SARs shall be equal to the Option Price of the related Option.   
  7.2    SAR Agreement  .  Each SAR Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Grant Price, the term of the SAR, and any such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.   
  7.3    Term of SAR  .  The term of an SAR granted under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and except as determined otherwise by the Committee and specified in the SAR Award Agreement, no SAR shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10   th   ) anniversary date of its grant.   
  7.4    Exercise of Freestanding SARs  .  Freestanding SARs may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes. 
  7.5.    Exercise of Tandem SARs  .  Tandem SARs may be exercised for all or part of the Shares subject to the related Option upon the surrender of the right to exercise the equivalent portion of the related Option.  A Tandem SAR may be exercised only with respect to the Shares for which its related Option is then exercisable. 
  7.6    Payment of SAR Amount  .  Upon the exercise of an SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying: 
           (a) 
    The difference between the FMV of a Share on the date of exercise over the Grant Price; by 
       7 

(b) 
    The number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised. 
     At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, Shares of equivalent value (based on the FMV on the date of exercise of the SAR, as defined in the Award Agreement or otherwise defined by the Committee thereafter), in some combination thereof, or in any other form approved by the Committee at its sole discretion.  The Committee s determination regarding the form of SAR payout shall be set forth or reserved for later determination in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the SAR. 
  7.7    Termination of Directorship  .  Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the SAR following termination of the Participant s service as a Director.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all SARs issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination. 
  7.8    Nontransferability of SARs  .  Except as otherwise provided in a Participant s Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee, an SAR granted under the Plan may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant s Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee, all SARs granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant. 
  7.9    Other Restrictions  .  Without limiting the generality of any other provision of this Plan, the Committee may impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares received upon exercise of an SAR granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable.  This includes, but is not limited to, requiring the Participant to hold the Shares received upon exercise of an SAR for a specified period of time.   
  Article 8.  Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units 
  8.1    Grant of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units  .  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee shall determine.   
  8.2    Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Agreement  .  Each Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Unit grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock or the number of Restricted Stock Units granted, and any such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.   
  8.3    Nontransferability of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units  .  Except as otherwise provided in this Plan or the Award Agreement, the Shares of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units granted herein may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the end of the applicable Period of Restriction specified in the Award Agreement (and in the case of Restricted Stock Units until the date of delivery or other payment), or upon earlier satisfaction of any other conditions, as specified by the Committee in its sole discretion  
    8 

and set forth in the Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee.  All rights with respect to the Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be available during his or her lifetime only to such Participant, except as otherwise provided in the Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee.   
  8.4    Other Restrictions  .  The Committee shall impose, in the Award Agreement at the time of grant or anytime thereafter, such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Plan as it may deem advisable including, without limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock or each Restricted Stock Unit, time-based restrictions on vesting following the attainment of the performance goals, time-based restrictions, restrictions under applicable laws or under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are listed or traded, or holding requirements or sale restrictions placed on the Shares by the Company upon vesting of such Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.   
  To the extent deemed appropriate by the Committee subject to Section 15.4, the Company may retain the certificates representing Shares of Restricted Stock, or Shares delivered in consideration of Restricted Stock Units, in the Company s possession until such time as all conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse.   
  Except as otherwise provided in this Article 8, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock Award shall become freely transferable by the Participant after all conditions and restrictions applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse, and Restricted Stock Units shall be paid in cash, Shares, or a combination of cash and Shares as the Committee, in its sole discretion shall determine.   
  8.5    Certificate Legend  .  In addition to any legends placed on certificates pursuant to Section 8.4 herein, each certificate representing Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to the Plan may bear a legend such as the following: 
  The sale or other transfer of the Shares of stock represented by this certificate, whether voluntary, involuntary, or by operation of law, is subject to certain restrictions on transfer as set forth in the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan, and in the associated Award Agreement.  A copy of the Plan and such Award Agreement may be obtained from MetLife, Inc. 
  8.6    Voting Rights  .  To the extent required by law, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall be granted the right to exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of Restriction.  A Participant shall have no voting rights with respect to any Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder. 
  8.7    Dividends and Other Distributions  .  During the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder may, if the Committee so determines, be credited with dividends paid with respect to the underlying Shares or dividend equivalents while they are so held in a manner determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.  The Committee may apply any restrictions to the dividends or dividend equivalents that  
    9 

the Committee deems appropriate.  The Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine the form of payment of dividends or dividend equivalents, including cash, Shares, Restricted Stock, or Restricted Stock Units. 
  8.8    Termination of Directorship  .  Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units following termination of the Participant s service as a Director.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among all Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination. 
  8.9    Payment in Consideration of Restricted Stock Units  .  When and if Restricted Stock Units become payable, a Participant having received the grant of such units shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in cash, Shares of equivalent value (based on the FMV, as defined in the Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee), in some combination thereof, or in any other form determined by the Committee at its sole discretion.  The Committee s determination regarding the form of payout shall be set forth or reserved for later determination in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the Restricted Stock Unit. 
  Article 9. Stock-Based Awards 
  9.1    Stock-Based Awards  .  The Committee may grant other types of equity-based or equity-related Awards not otherwise described by the terms of this Plan (including the grant or offer for sale of unrestricted Shares) in such amounts and subject to such terms and conditions, or in satisfaction of any obligation of the Company or an Affiliate to a Non-Management Director, as the Committee shall determine.  Such Awards may entail the transfer of actual Shares to Participants, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the value of Shares and may include, without limitation, Awards designed to comply with or take advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than the United States.   
  9.2    Termination of Directorship  .  Each Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive Stock-Based Awards following termination of the Participant s service as a Director.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the applicable Award Agreement, need not be uniform among all Awards of Stock-Based Awards issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.   
  9.3    Nontransferability of Stock-Based Awards  .  Except as otherwise provided in a Participant s Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee, Stock-Based Awards may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant s Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee, a Participant s rights under the Plan shall be exercisable during the Participant s lifetime only by the Participant. 
  Article 10.  Beneficiary Designation 
    10 

A Participant s  beneficiary  is the person or persons entitled to receive payments or other benefits or exercise rights that are available under the Plan in the event of the Participant s death.  A Participant may designate a beneficiary or change a previous beneficiary designation at such times prescribed by the Committee by using forms and following procedures approved or accepted by the Committee for that purpose.  If no beneficiary designated by the Participant is eligible to receive payments or other benefits or exercise rights that are available under the Plan at the Participant s death the beneficiary shall be the Participant s estate.   
  Notwithstanding the provisions above, the Committee may in its discretion, after notifying the affected Participants, modify the foregoing requirements, institute additional requirements for beneficiary designations, or suspend the existing beneficiary designations of living Participants or the process of determining beneficiaries under this Article 10, or both, in favor of another method of determining beneficiaries.   
  Article 11.  Deferrals and Share Settlements 
  Notwithstanding any other provision under the Plan, the Committee may permit or require a Participant to defer such Participant s receipt of any Award, or payment in consideration of any Award, under the terms of this Plan or another Plan.  To the extent such deferral is permitted by the Committee under the terms of this Plan rather than another Plan, the Committee shall establish rules and procedures for such deferrals as it sees fit. 
  Article 12.  Rights of Non-Management Directors 
  12.1    Directorship  .  Nothing in the Plan or an Award Agreement shall be construed to confer a right to be elected or to continue to serve as a Director.  No Participant shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award, and the grant of an Award shall not be construed to create any obligation on the part of the Board to nominate any of its members for re-election by the Company s shareholders. Nothing in the Plan or an Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Board to otherwise remove the Participant from the Board at any time, nor confer upon any Participant a right to remain a member of the Board for any period of time, or at any particular rate of compensation.  
  12.2    Participation  .  No Non-Management Director, having received an Award, shall have the right to receive a future Award or (if receiving such a future Award) the right to receive such a future Award on terms and conditions identical or in proportion in any way to any prior Award. 
  12.3    Rights as a Shareholder  .  A Participant shall have none of the rights of a shareholder with respect to Shares covered by any Award until the Participant becomes the record holder of such Shares. 
  Article 13. Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination 
  13.1    Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination  .  The Committee or Board may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify, suspend, or terminate the Plan in whole or in part; provided however, that to the extent necessary under any applicable law, regulation or exchange requirement, no amendment shall be effective unless approved by the  
    11 

shareholders of the Company in accordance with applicable law, regulation, or exchange requirement. 
  13.2    Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events  .  The Committee may make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events described in Section 4.2 hereof) affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan.  The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under the Plan.   
  13.3    Awards Previously Granted  .  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, no termination, amendment, suspension, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award. 
  Article 14.  Successors 
  Any obligations of the Company under the Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, respectively, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, as applicable. 
  Article 15.  General Provisions 
  15.1    Forfeiture Events  .     Without limiting in any way the generality of the Committee s power to specify any terms and conditions of an Award consistent with law, and for greater clarity, the Committee may specify in an Award Agreement that the Participant s rights, payments, and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture, or recoupment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award.  
  15.2    Legend  .  The certificates for Shares may include any legend that the Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on transfer of such Shares. 
  15.3    Delivery of Title  .  The Company shall have no obligation to issue or deliver evidence of title for Shares issued under the Plan prior to: 
           (a) 
    Obtaining any approvals from governmental agencies that the Company determines are necessary or advisable; and 
              (b) 
    Completion of any registration or other qualification of the Shares under any applicable national or foreign law or ruling of any governmental body that the Company determines to be necessary or advisable. 
       12 

15.4    Uncertificated Shares  .  To the extent that the Plan provides for issuance of certificates to reflect the transfer of Shares, the transfer of such Shares may be effected on a noncertificated basis to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange. 
  15.5    Unfunded Plan  .  Participants shall have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company or an Affiliate may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under the Plan.  Nothing contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or an Affiliate and any Participant, beneficiary, legal representative, or any other person.  Awards shall be general, unsecured obligations of the Company.  To the extent that any individual acquires a right to receive payments from the Company, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company.  All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the Company, and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as expressly set forth in the Plan.  The Plan is not intended to be subject to ERISA. 
  15.6    No Fractional Shares  .  No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award Agreement but shall, instead, be payable in cash. 
  15.7    No Constraint on Corporate Action  .  Nothing in this Plan shall be construed (  i  ) to limit, impair or otherwise affect the Company s or an Affiliate s right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets, or (  ii  ) to limit the right or power of the Company or an Affiliate to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate. 
  Article 16.  Legal Construction 
  16.1    Gender and Number  .  Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural. 
  16.2    Severability  .  In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included. 
  16.3    Requirements of Law  .  The granting of Awards and the issuance of Shares under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.  The Company shall receive the consideration required by law for the issuance of Awards under the Plan. 
  The inability of the Company or an Affiliate to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company s counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. 
    13 

16.4    Governing Law  .  The Plan and each Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.   
    
    14 

</EX-10.25>

<EX-10.28>
 7
 met-20141231xex1028.htm
 EX-10.28

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.28 

Exhibit 10.28 
  MANAGEMENT STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 
  MetLife, Inc. confirms that, on   [grant date]   (the  Grant Date ), it granted you,   [name]  ,   [number]   Stock Options (your  Options ).  Each Option entitles you to purchase one Share for $  [closing price on date of grant]   per Share (the  Exercise Price ).  Your Options are subject to the terms and conditions of this Management Stock Option Agreement (this  Agreement ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ). 
  1.    Standard Terms of Your Options  .    Except as provided in Sections 3 (Change of Status) and 4 (Change of Control), one-third (1/3) of your Options will become exercisable on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the Grant Date, and you may exercise your Options until the close of business on   [day prior to   the tenth (10   th   ) anniversary of the Grant Date]   (the  Standard Terms ).  Neither this date, nor any other deadline for exercise of your Options under this Agreement, will be extended regardless of whether you are unable to exercise your Options on that date because it is not a business day, due to trading limitations, or otherwise. 
  2.      Exercise of Your Options  .     
  (a)  You may exercise any of your Options that have become exercisable by notifying the Company, using procedures that will be established for this purpose, and paying for the Shares at the time you exercise your Options.  Any exercisable Options that you fail to exercise within the applicable period for exercise will be forfeited. 
  (b)  You may pay the Exercise Price in one or more of the following ways: (1) in cash, (2) by exchanging Shares you already own (as long as those Shares are not subject to any pledge or other security interest) at the Closing Price on the date of exchange, (3) to the extent permitted by law, through an arrangement with the broker designated by the Company in which the broker will use the proceeds of the sale of a sufficient number of Shares to pay the Exercise Price, or (4) through a combination of the above.  The combined value paid must have a value as of the date tendered that is at least equal to the Exercise Price. 
  (c)      You must exercise your Options in accordance with the Company s insider trading policy and any applicable pre-trading clearance procedures.  Your exercise of Options or sale of Shares may be prohibited at certain times, or delayed, due to Share trading volume limitations imposed by the Company. The issuance of Shares pursuant to your Options is subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to any approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.  No Shares will be issued upon exercise of any of your Options if that issuance or exercise would result in a violation of applicable law, including the federal securities laws and any applicable state or foreign securities laws.   
  (d)  The number of Shares issuable upon exercise of your Options shall be reduced to the nearest whole Share.  If you retain some or all of the Shares after you exercise your Options, you will receive evidence of ownership of those Shares.   

3.    Change of Status  .    For purposes of this Section 3, your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate, or among Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment.  In the event of a Change of Control, any applicable terms of Section 4 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 3. 
  (a)    Long-Term Disability  .  In the event you qualify for long-term disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the Company or an Affiliate for its Employees, the Standard Terms will continue to apply to your Options. Once this provision applies, no other change of status described in this Sections 3 (except the provision regarding termination for Cause) will affect your Options, even if you subsequently return to active service or your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates other than for Cause. 
  (b)    Death  .  In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to your death, all of your Options will     be immediately exercisable and will remain exercisable until the close of business on the Expiration Date. 
  (c)    Retirement  .  If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) on after your early retirement date or normal retirement date (in each case determined under any ERISA qualified benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate) ( Retirement ), the Standard Terms will continue to apply to your Options. 
  (d)    Bridge Eligibility  .  If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) with bridge eligibility for retirement-related medical benefits (determined under an ERISA qualified benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any) ( Bridge Eligibility ), and your separation agreement (offered to you under the severance program offered by the Company or an Affiliate to its Employees) becomes final, the Standard Terms will continue to apply to your Options. 
  (e)    Termination for Cause  .  In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates for Cause, all of your Options will be forfeited immediately.  
  (f)    Other Termination of Employment  .  Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 3 regarding change of status applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your termination without Retirement or Bridge Eligibility, or your termination by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause, then (a) your Options that are exercisable as of the date of termination will remain exercisable until the close of business on the 30   th    day after the date of your termination or until they would expire under the Standard Terms, whichever period is shorter; and (b) all of your Options that are not exercisable at the date of termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate will be forfeited immediately. 
  4.    Change of Control  . 
  (a)  Except as provided in Section 4(b) and 4(c), and unless otherwise prohibited under law or by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if a Change of Control occurs: 
    2 

(1)  all of your unexercised Options will become exercisable immediately regardless of the applicable exercise schedule; and  
  (2)  notwithstanding any provisions of Section 3 (Change of Status) to the contrary, if your employment with the Company or any Affiliate terminates without Cause before the first anniversary of the Change of Control, your Options will remain exercisable until the earlier of:  (a) their expiration under the Standard Terms; or (b) the first anniversary of the termination of your employment.  For purposes of this Section 4(a)(2), your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate, or among Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment. 
  (b)  Notwithstanding Section 4(a), the Committee may elect to redeem your Options for a cash payment equal to the Change of Control Price less the Exercise Price, multiplied by the number of exercisable Options that you have not yet exercised.  
  (c)  The terms of Sections 4(a) and 4(b) will not apply to your Options if the Committee reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of Control, that you have been granted an Alternative Award for your Options pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Plan. 
  5.    Nontransferability of Awards  .    Except as provided in Section 6 or otherwise permitted by the Committee, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Options, and all rights with respect to your Options are exercisable during your lifetime only by you.  
  6.    Beneficiary Designation  .    You may name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) who may then exercise any right under this Agreement in the event of your death.  Each beneficiary designation for such purpose will revoke all such prior designations.  Beneficiary designations must be properly completed on a form prescribed by the Committee and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime.  If you have not designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass to and may be exercised by your estate. 
  7.    Tax Withholding  .    The Company will withhold from payment made under this Agreement, or require you to remit, an amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum statutory Federal, state, and local tax withholding requirements relating to the exercise of your Options.  The Company will defer payment of cash or the issuance of Shares until this requirement is satisfied.  You may satisfy this withholding requirement by:  (a) paying cash  to the Company to cover the tax obligation; (b) having Shares otherwise issuable upon the exercise of your Options withheld by the Company at the Closing Price of those Shares as of the date of exercise applied to cover the tax obligation; or (c) delivering previously acquired Shares to the Company having a Closing Price value as of the date of exercise equal to all or part of the tax obligation associated with the transaction, and cash equal to the balance of the tax obligation. 
  8.    Adjustments  .    The Committee will make appropriate adjustments in the terms and conditions of your Options in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements (such as a Common Stock dividend, Common Stock split, recapitalization, payment of an extraordinary dividend, merger, consolidation, combination, spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders other than ordinary cash dividends, exchange of shares,  
    3 

or other similar corporate change), or in recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the potential benefits of your Options.  The Committee s determinations in this regard will be conclusive. 
  9.    Closing Price.    For purpose of this Agreement,  Closing Price  will mean the closing price of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of the Shares are quoted at the relevant time), or in the event that there are no Share transactions reported on such tape or other system on the applicable date, the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Share transactions were reported.  Closing Price shall constitute  Fair Market Value  under the Plan for all purposes related to your Options. 
  10.    No Guarantee of Employment  .  This Agreement is not a contract of employment and it is not a guarantee of employment for life or any period of time.  Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate your employment at any time.  This Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or an Affiliate. 
  11.    Governing Law; Choice of Forum  .    This Agreement will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws.  Any action to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must be brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the Company and you consent. 
  12.    Miscellaneous  .    For purposes of this Agreement,  Committee  includes any direct or indirect delegate of the Committee as defined in the Plan and the word  Section  refers to a Section in this Agreement.  Any other capitalized word used in this Agreement and not defined in this Agreement, including each form of that word, is defined in the Plan.  Any determination or interpretation by the Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive.  In the event of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan control.  This Agreement and the Plan represent the entire agreement between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding your Options.  No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Options that are not set forth, or referred to, in this Agreement or in the Plan are part of this Agreement.  In the event any provision of this Agreement is held illegal or invalid, the rest of this Agreement will remain enforceable.  If you are an Employee of an Affiliate, your Options are being provided to you by the Company on behalf of that Affiliate, and the value of your Options will be considered a compensation obligation of that Affiliate.  The Committee may, in its discretion, substitute Stock Appreciation Rights for your Options to the extent permitted by the Plan.  Your Options are subject to the Company s performance-based compensation recoupment policy (which currently covers only officers or officer-equivalent employees of the Company and its Affiliates) in effect from time to time. 
    4 

13.    Amendments  .    The Committee has the exclusive right to amend this Agreement as long as the amendment does not adversely affect any of your previously-granted Awards in any material way (without your written consent) and is otherwise consistent with the Plan.  The Company will give written notice to you (or, in the event of your death, to your beneficiary or estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption. 
  14.    Agreement to Protect Corporate Property  .    If you have not previously executed an Agreement to Protect Corporate Property ( Property Agreement ), the grant of your Options is subject to your execution of the Property Agreement provided to you by the Company with respect to this Agreement, and if you do not return a signed copy of the Property Agreement then this Agreement and the Options granted to you will be void.  The Company may in its sole discretion allow an extension of time for you to return your signed Property Agreement. 
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Agreement, and you have executed this Agreement. 
                 METLIFE, INC. 
    EMPLOYEE 
      By:      C. Robert Henrikson 
    [name] 
      Name 

Chairman of the Board,      President and Chief Executive Officer 
      
      Title 

_______________________________ 
    ________________________________ 
      Signature 
    Signature 
        
    Date: ___________________________ 

5 

</EX-10.28>

<EX-10.29>
 8
 met-20141231xex1029.htm
 EX-10.29

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.29 

Exhibit 10.29 
  MANAGEMENT STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 
  MetLife, Inc. confirms that, on   [grant date]   (the  Grant Date ), it granted you,   [name]  ,   [number]   Stock Options (your  Options ).  Each Option entitles you to purchase one Share for $  [closing price on date of grant]   per Share (the  Exercise Price ).  Your Options are subject to the terms and conditions of this Management Stock Option Agreement (this  Agreement ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ). 
  1.    Standard Terms of Your Options  .    Except as provided in Sections 3 (Change of Status) and 4 (Change of Control), one-third (1/3) of your Options will become exercisable on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the Grant Date, and you may exercise your Options until the close of business on   [day prior to   the tenth (10   th   ) anniversary of the Grant Date]   (the  Standard Terms ).  Neither this date, nor any other deadline for exercise of your Options under this Agreement, will be extended regardless of whether you are unable to exercise your Options on that date because it is not a business day, due to trading limitations, or otherwise. 
  2.      Exercise of Your Options  .     
  (a)  You may exercise any of your Options that have become exercisable by notifying the Company, using procedures that will be established for this purpose, and paying for the Shares at the time you exercise your Options.  Any exercisable Options that you fail to exercise within the applicable period for exercise will be forfeited. 
  (b)  You may pay the Exercise Price in one or more of the following ways: (1) in cash, (2) by exchanging Shares you already own (as long as those Shares are not subject to any pledge or other security interest) at the Closing Price on the date of exchange, (3) to the extent permitted by law, through an arrangement with the broker designated by the Company in which the broker will use the proceeds of the sale of a sufficient number of Shares to pay the Exercise Price, or (4) through a combination of the above.  The combined value paid must have a value as of the date tendered that is at least equal to the Exercise Price. 
  (c)      You must exercise your Options in accordance with the Company s insider trading policy and any applicable pre-trading clearance procedures.  Your exercise of Options or sale of Shares may be prohibited at certain times, or delayed, due to Share trading volume limitations imposed by the Company. The issuance of Shares pursuant to your Options is subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to any approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.  No Shares will be issued upon exercise of any of your Options if that issuance or exercise would result in a violation of applicable law, including the federal securities laws and any applicable state or foreign securities laws.   
  (d)  The number of Shares issuable upon exercise of your Options shall be reduced to the nearest whole Share.  If you retain some or all of the Shares after you exercise your Options, you will receive evidence of ownership of those Shares.   

3.    Change of Status  .    For purposes of this Section 3, your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate, or among Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment.  In the event of a Change of Control, any applicable terms of Section 4 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 3. 
  (a)    Long-Term Disability  .  In the event you qualify for long-term disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the Company or an Affiliate for its Employees, the Standard Terms will continue to apply to your Options. Once this provision applies, no other change of status described in this Sections 3 (except the provision regarding termination for Cause) will affect your Options, even if you subsequently return to active service or your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates other than for Cause. 
  (b)    Death  .  In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to your death, all of your Options will     be immediately exercisable and will remain exercisable until the close of business on the Expiration Date. 
  (c)    Retirement  .  If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) on after your early retirement date or normal retirement date (in each case determined under any ERISA qualified benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate) ( Retirement ), the Standard Terms will continue to apply to your Options. 
  (d)    Bridge Eligibility  .  If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) with bridge eligibility for retirement-related medical benefits (determined under an ERISA qualified benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any) ( Bridge Eligibility ), and your separation agreement (offered to you under the severance program offered by the Company or an Affiliate to its Employees) becomes final, the Standard Terms will continue to apply to your Options. 
  (e)    Termination for Cause  .  In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates for Cause, all of your Options will be forfeited immediately.  
  (f)    Other Termination of Employment  .  Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 3 regarding change of status applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your termination without Retirement or Bridge Eligibility, or your termination by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause, then (a) your Options that are exercisable as of the date of termination will remain exercisable until the close of business on the 30   th    day after the date of your termination or until they would expire under the Standard Terms, whichever period is shorter; and (b) all of your Options that are not exercisable at the date of termination of your employment with the Company or an Affiliate will be forfeited immediately. 
  4.    Change of Control  . 
  (a)  Except as provided in Section 4(b) and 4(c), and unless otherwise prohibited under law or by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if a Change of Control occurs: 
    2 

(1)  all of your unexercised Options will become exercisable immediately regardless of the applicable exercise schedule; and  
  (2)  notwithstanding any provisions of Section 3 (Change of Status) to the contrary, if your employment with the Company or any Affiliate terminates without Cause before the first anniversary of the Change of Control, your Options will remain exercisable until the earlier of:  (a) their expiration under the Standard Terms; or (b) the first anniversary of the termination of your employment.  For purposes of this Section 4(a)(2), your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate, or among Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment. 
  (b)  Notwithstanding Section 4(a), the Committee may elect to redeem your Options for a cash payment equal to the Change of Control Price less the Exercise Price, multiplied by the number of exercisable Options that you have not yet exercised.  
  (c)  The terms of Sections 4(a) and 4(b) will not apply to your Options if the Committee reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of Control, that you have been granted an Alternative Award for your Options pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Plan. 
  5.    Nontransferability of Awards  .    Except as provided in Section 6 or otherwise permitted by the Committee, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Options, and all rights with respect to your Options are exercisable during your lifetime only by you.  
  6.    Beneficiary Designation  .    You may name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) who may then exercise any right under this Agreement in the event of your death.  Each beneficiary designation for such purpose will revoke all such prior designations.  Beneficiary designations must be properly completed on a form prescribed by the Committee and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime.  If you have not designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass to and may be exercised by your estate. 
  7.    Tax Withholding  .    The Company will withhold from payment made under this Agreement, or require you to remit, an amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum statutory Federal, state, and local tax withholding requirements relating to the exercise of your Options.  The Company will defer payment of cash or the issuance of Shares until this requirement is satisfied.  You may satisfy this withholding requirement by:  (a) paying cash  to the Company to cover the tax obligation; (b) having Shares otherwise issuable upon the exercise of your Options withheld by the Company at the Closing Price of those Shares as of the date of exercise applied to cover the tax obligation; or (c) delivering previously acquired Shares to the Company having a Closing Price value as of the date of exercise equal to all or part of the tax obligation associated with the transaction, and cash equal to the balance of the tax obligation. 
  8.    Adjustments  .    The Committee may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the terms and conditions of your Options in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements, or in recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are  
    3 

appropriate to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the potential benefits of your Options.  The Committee s determination in this regard will be conclusive. 
  9.    Closing Price.    For purpose of this Agreement,  Closing Price  will mean the closing price of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of the Shares are quoted at the relevant time), or in the event that there are no Share transactions reported on such tape or other system on the applicable date, the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Share transactions were reported.  Closing Price shall constitute  Fair Market Value  under the Plan for all purposes related to your Options. 
  10.    No Guarantee of Employment  .  This Agreement is not a contract of employment and it is not a guarantee of employment for life or any period of time.  Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate your employment at any time.  This Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or an Affiliate. 
  11.    Governing Law; Choice of Forum  .    This Agreement will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws.  Any action to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must be brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the Company and you consent. 
  12.    Miscellaneous  .    For purposes of this Agreement,  Committee  includes any direct or indirect delegate of the Committee as defined in the Plan and the word  Section  refers to a Section in this Agreement.  Any other capitalized word used in this Agreement and not defined in this Agreement, including each form of that word, is defined in the Plan.  Any determination or interpretation by the Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive.  In the event of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan control.  This Agreement and the Plan represent the entire agreement between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding your Options.  No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Options that are not set forth, or referred to, in this Agreement or in the Plan are part of this Agreement.  In the event any provision of this Agreement is held illegal or invalid, the rest of this Agreement will remain enforceable.  If you are an Employee of an Affiliate, your Options are being provided to you by the Company on behalf of that Affiliate, and the value of your Options will be considered a compensation obligation of that Affiliate.  The Committee may, in its discretion, substitute Stock Appreciation Rights for your Options to the extent permitted by the Plan. 
    4 

13.    Amendments  .    The Committee has the exclusive right to amend this Agreement as long as the amendment does not adversely affect any of your previously-granted Awards in any material way (without your written consent) and is otherwise consistent with the Plan.  The Company will give written notice to you (or, in the event of your death, to your beneficiary or estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption. 
  14.    Agreement to Protect Corporate Property  .    The grant of your Options is subject to your execution of the Agreement to Protect Corporate Property provided to you with this Agreement ( Property Agreement ).  If you do not return a signed copy of the Property Agreement, this Agreement and the Options granted to you will be void.  The Company may in its sole discretion allow an extension of time for you to return your signed Property Agreement. 
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Agreement, and you have executed this Agreement. 
                 METLIFE, INC. 
    EMPLOYEE 
      By:      Robert H. Benmosche                                 
    [name] 
      Name 

Chairman of the Board and CEO          
      
      Title 

_______________________________ 
    ________________________________ 
      Signature 
    Signature 
        
    Date: ___________________________ 

5 

</EX-10.29>

<EX-10.33>
 9
 met-20141231xex1033.htm
 EX-10.33

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.33 

Exhibit 10.33 
  MANAGEMENT RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT 
  MetLife, Inc. confirms that, on   [grant date]   (the  Grant Date ), it granted you,   [name]  ,   [number]   Restricted Stock Units (your  Units ).  Your Units are subject to the terms and conditions of this Management Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (this  Agreement ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ). 
  1.    Standard Settlement Terms  .    Except as provided in Sections 2 (Change of Status) and 3 (Change of Control), the Period of Restriction for your Units will expire, and each of your Units will be due and payable in the form of Shares, on the third anniversary of the Grant Date (the  Standard Settlement Terms ). 
  2.    Change of Status  .    For purposes of this Section 2, your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate, or among Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment.  In the event of a Change of Control, any applicable terms of Section 3 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 2. 
  (a)    Long-Term Disability  .  In the event you qualify for long-term disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the Company or an Affiliate for its Employees, each of your Units will be due and payable in the form of Shares.  Once this provision applies, no other change of status described in this Section 2 (except the provision regarding termination for Cause) will affect your Units, even if you subsequently return to active service or your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates other than for Cause. 
  (b)    Death  .  In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to your death, each of your Units will be due and payable in the form of Shares (or cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the date of your death, if so determined by the Committee). 
  (c)    Retirement  .  If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) on after your early retirement date or normal retirement date (in each case determined under any ERISA qualified pension plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any) ( Retirement ), the Standard Settlement Terms will continue to apply to your Units. 
  (d)    Bridge Eligibility  .  If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) with bridge eligibility for retirement-related medical benefits (determined under the ERISA qualified benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any) ( Bridge Eligibility ), and your separation agreement (offered to you under the severance program offered by the Company or an Affiliate to its Employees) becomes final, the Standard Settlement Terms will continue to apply to your Units. 
  (e)    Termination for Cause  .  In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates for Cause, your Units will be forfeited immediately.  
  (f)    Other Termination of Employment  .  Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 2 regarding change of status applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your termination without Retirement or Bridge Eligibility, or the termination of your employment by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause, your Units will be forfeited immediately unless you are offered a separation agreement by the Company or an Affiliate under a severance program.  To the extent your separation agreement becomes final, your Prorated  

Units will be due and payable to you.  The number of your  Prorated Units  will be determined by dividing the number of calendar months, beginning with the month of the Grant Date, that have ended as of the end of the month of the termination of your employment by thirty-six (36), multiplying the result by the number of your Units, and rounding to the nearest whole number;   provided, however  , that if the date of the termination of your employment is prior to the first anniversary of the Grant Date , then the number of your Prorated Units shall be zero (0).  Payment for each of your Units will be made in cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the Grant Date, and shall be rounded to the nearest one-hundred dollars ($100.00).  If your separation agreement does not become final, your Units will be forfeited. 
  3.    Change of Control  . 
  (a)  Except as provided in Section 3(b), and unless otherwise prohibited under law or by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if a Change of Control occurs, your Units will be due and payable in the form of cash equal to the number of your Units multiplied by the Change of Control Price. 
  (b)  The terms of Section 3(a) will not apply to your Units if the Committee reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of Control, that you have been granted an Alternative Award for your Units pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Plan.  Any such Alternative Award shall not accelerate the timing of payment or otherwise violate Code Section 409A, to the extent such Code section is applicable to your Units. 
  4.    Nontransferability of Awards  .    Except as provided in Section 5 or as otherwise permitted by the Committee, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Units, and all rights with respect to your Units are exercisable during your lifetime only by you.  
  5.    Beneficiary Designation  .    You may name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) who may then exercise any right under this Agreement in the event of your death.  Each beneficiary designation for such purpose will revoke all such prior designations.  Beneficiary designations must be properly completed on a form prescribed by the Committee and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime.  If you have not designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass to and may be exercised by your estate. 
  6.    Tax Withholding  .    The Company will withhold from payment made under this Agreement an amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum statutory Federal, state, and local tax withholding requirements relating to payment on account of your Units. 
  7.    Adjustments  .    The Committee will make appropriate adjustments in the terms and conditions of your Units in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements (such as a Common Stock dividend, Common Stock split, recapitalization, payment of an extraordinary dividend, merger, consolidation, combination, spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders other than ordinary cash dividends, exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change), or in recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the potential benefits of your Units.  The Committee s determinations in this regard will be conclusive. 
    2 

8.    Timing of Payment  .   
  (a)  To the extent applicable, this Agreement is intended to comply with Code Section 409A and shall be interpreted accordingly.  If Shares are to be paid to you, you will receive evidence of ownership of those Shares. 
  (b)  If payment is due and payable under Section 2(a), it will be made within thirty (30) days after your qualification for long-term disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the Company or an Affiliate for its Employees. 
  (c)  If payment is due and payable under Section 2(b), it will be made upon your death. 
  (d)  If payment is due and payable under Section 2(f), it will be made six (6) months after the termination of your employment (or six (6) months after your  separation from service  under Code Section 409A, if that is a different date). 
  (e)  If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable is a  change of control  as defined under Code Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you within thirty (30) days after the Change of Control.  If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable is not a  change of control  as defined under Code Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you at the time determined under Section 8(f). 
  (f)  If payment is due and payable under the Standard Settlement Terms and you have chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate, payment will be made at the time determined under that plan.  If payment is due and payable under the Standard Settlement Terms and you have not chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate, payment will be made within thirty (30) days after the Period of Restriction for your Units expires. 
  9.    Closing Price.    For purposes of this Agreement, Closing Price will mean the closing price of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of the Shares are quoted at the relevant time), or in the event that there are no Share transactions reported on such tape or other system on the applicable date, the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Share transactions were reported.  Closing Price shall constitute  Fair Market Value  under the Plan for all purposes related to your Units. 
  10.    No Guarantee of Employment  .  This Agreement is not a contract of employment and it is not a guarantee of employment for life or any period of time.  Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate your employment at any time.  This Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or an Affiliate. 
  11.    Governing Law; Choice of Forum  .    This Agreement will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws.  Any action to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must be brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the Company and you consent. 
    3 

12.    Miscellaneous  .    For purposes of this Agreement,  Committee  includes any direct or indirect delegate of the Committee as defined in the Plan, and the word  Section  refers to a Section in this Agreement.  Any other capitalized word used in this Agreement and not defined in this Agreement, including each form of that word, is defined in the Plan.  Any determination or interpretation by the Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive.  In the event of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan control.  This Agreement and the Plan represent the entire agreement between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates regarding your Units.  No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Units that are not set forth, or referred to, in this Agreement or in the Plan are part of this Agreement.  In the event any provision of this Agreement is held illegal or invalid, the rest of this Agreement will remain enforceable.  If you are an Employee of an Affiliate, your Units are being provided to you by the Company on behalf of that Affiliate, and the value of your Units will be considered a compensation obligation of that Affiliate.  Your Units are not Shares and do not give you the rights of a holder of Shares.  You will not be credited with additional Units on account of any dividend paid on Shares.  The issuance of Shares or payment of cash pursuant to your Units is subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to any approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.  No Shares will be issued or no cash will be paid if that issuance or payment would result in a violation of applicable law, including the federal securities laws and any applicable state or foreign securities laws.  Your Units are subject to the Company s performance-based compensation recoupment policy (which currently covers only officers or officer-equivalent employees of the Company and its Affiliates) in effect from time to time. 
  13.    Amendments  .    The Committee has the exclusive right to amend this Agreement as long as the amendment does not adversely affect any of your previously-granted Awards in any material way (without your written consent) and is otherwise consistent with the Plan.  The Company will give written notice to you (or, in the event of your death, to your beneficiary or estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption. 
  14.    Agreement to Protect Corporate Property  .    If you have not previously executed an Agreement to Protect Corporate Property ( Property Agreement ), the grant of your Units is subject to your execution of the Property Agreement provided to you by the Company with respect to this Agreement, and if you do not return a signed copy of the Property Agreement then this Agreement and the Units granted to you will be void.  The Company may in its sole discretion allow an extension of time for you to return your signed Property Agreement. 
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Agreement, and you have executed this Agreement. 
                 METLIFE, INC. 
    EMPLOYEE 
      By:      C. Robert Henrikson 
    [name] 
      Name 

Chairman of the Board,      President and Chief Executive Officer 
      
      Title 
      
      _______________________________ 
    ________________________________ 
      Signature 
    Signature 
        
    Date: ___________________________ 

4 

</EX-10.33>

<EX-10.45>
 10
 met-20141231xex1045.htm
 EX-10.45

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.45 

Exhibit 10.45 
  MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SHARE AGREEMENT 
    
  MetLife, Inc. confirms that, on   [grant date]   (the "Grant Date"), it granted you,   [name]  ,   [number]   Performance Shares (your "Performance Shares"). Your Performance Shares are subject to the terms and conditions of this Management Performance Share Agreement (this "Agreement") and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). 
    
           1. 
    Standard Performance Terms. 
       
  (a) The terms of this Section 1 shall be referred to as the "Standard Performance Terms" and will apply to your Performance Shares except in so far as Sections 2 (Change of Status) or 3 (Change of Control) apply. 
    
  (b) The Performance Period for your Performance Shares will begin on   [date]  ,   [year]   and end on the December 31 immediately preceding the third anniversary of the beginning of the Performance Period. After the conclusion of the Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing  the number of Performance Shares  payable in accordance with this Section 1 (your "Final Performance Shares"), and your Final Performance Shares  will be due  and payable in Shares at the time specified in Section 8. 
    
  (c) If the Committee determines in writing that the Company had  net income available to common shareholders for either the third calendar year of the Performance Period or for the Performance Period as a whole, then  you will be eligible for a payment of up to 200% of your Performance Shares. Net income available to common shareholders for any period will be determined with reference to the Company's Form 10-K on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the third year of the Performance Period on the date of the Committee's determination. 
  (d) If, under Section 1(c), you  are eligible for a payment, the Committee will determine your Final Performance Shares by multiplying your Performance Shares by the "Performance Factor." The Performance Factor means a percentage (from zero to 200%) which is the sum of two other percentages (each from zero to 100%), described in (1) and (2) below, multiplied by the factor determined by (3) below, if applicable. 
    
  (1) The first percentage will be based on the Company's average percentile performance with respect to Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share during the Performance Period relative to the other companies in the Index, determined in the following  manner: 
    
  (a) First, the Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share will be determined for the Company  and  for each  of the other companies in the Index, for each  calendar year of the  Performance Period  and the calendar  immediately preceding the first calendar year of the  Performance Period. For this  purpose, "Net  Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share" for each  calendar year will have the meaning of that  term, or its substantial equivalent, defined in or derived from the Company's quarterly financial supplement for the fourth quarter of the prior year  filed with or furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. 

(b) Second, the Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share will be determined for the Company and for each of the other companies in the Index for each calendar year of the Performance Period. For this purpose, "Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share" means Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share for each calendar year of the Performance Period divided by Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share in the immediately preceding calendar year. 
    
  (c) Third, the Company's Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share for each calendar year of the Performance Period will be compared to the Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share for each of the other companies in the Index for the same calendar year to determine the percentage of the other companies in the Index whose performance was less than that of the Company, rounded down to the nearest whole number percentile appearing on the left-hand column of Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement (Company performance greater than every other company in the Index being deemed to be performance in the ninety-ninth percentile), producing the Company's percentile performance relative to the other companies in the Index 
    
  (d) Fourth, a percentage for each calendar year of the Performance Period will be determined using the percentile determined under Section (d)(l)(c) and the corresponding percentage on the right-hand  column of Table 1of Schedule A to this Agreement. 
    
  (e) Finally, the three percentages referenced in Section (l)(d)(l)(d) will be averaged. 
    
  (2) The second percentage will be based on the Company's performance with respect to Proportionate Total Shareholder Return during the Performance Period as a percentage of that of the Index, determined according to Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement, determined in the following manner: 
    
  (a) First, the Initial Closing Price of the Company and the Index will each be determined. For this purpose, "Initial Closing Price" means, in the case of the Company the average Closing Price, and in the case of the Index the value of the Index, in each case for the twenty (20) trading days prior to the first day of the Performance Period. 
    
  (b) Second, the Final Closing Price of the Company and the Index will each be determined. For this purpose, "Final Closing Price" means, in the case of the Company the average Closing Price, and in the case of the Index the value of the Index, in each case for the twenty (20) trading days prior to and including the final day of the Performance Period. 
    
  (c) Third, the Total Shareholder Return of the Company and the Index will each be determined, and expressed as a percentage. For this purpose, "Total Shareholder Return" means the change (plus or minus) from the Initial Closing Price to the Final 
    
  2 

Closing Price, plus (in the case of the Company) dividends (if any) actually paid on Shares on a reinvested basis from the first day of the Performance Period to and including the last day of the Performance Period. 
    
  (d) Fourth, the Proportionate Total Shareholder Return of the Company and the Index will each be determined. For this purpose, "Proportionate Total Shareholder Return" means  Total Shareholder Return divided by Initial Closing Price. 
    
  (e) Fifth, the Proportionate Total Shareholder Return of the Index will be subtracted from the Company's Proportionate Total Shareholder Return, and the result rounded  up or down to the nearest percentage appearing on the left-hand column of Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement (any result precisely halfway between  two percentages being rounded  up to the next highest percentage). 
    
  (f) Finally, a percentage will be determined using the result produced under Section l(d)(2)(e) and the corresponding percentage on the right-hand  column of Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement. 
    
  (3) If the Total Shareholder Return of the Company, as determined under Section (1)(d)(2)(e), is zero percent  or less, then the sum of the percentages described under Sections  (1)(d)(1) and (1)(d)(2) will be multiplied by a factor of seventy-five hundredths (0.75) and rounded  up or down to the nearest  whole percentage (any result precisely halfway between  two percentages being rounded up to the next highest percentage) to determine the Performance Factor. 
    
  (e) For purposes of Section l(d)(l), the companies in the Index refers to each company, other than the Company, that: 
    
  (1) does not adopt International Financial Reporting Standards with respect to a reporting period earlier than the reporting period with respect to which the Company does  so, 
    
  (2) has publicly reported its earnings in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of 
  America for each of the two calendar years being compared under Section l(d)(l)(b); and 
    
  (3) is included  in the Standard   Poor's  Insurance Index derived from Fortune 500 companies for the entirety of the second of the two calendar years being compared under Section l(d)(1)(b). 
    
  (f) For purposes of Section 1(d)(2),  the Index refers to the Standard   Poor's Insurance Index derived from Fortune 500 companies, including any weighting of the stock of the companies included in that index that is applied by Standard    Poor's, from time to time. 
    
           2. 
    Change of Status.    For purposes of this Section 2, your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate, or among Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment. In the event of a Change of Control, any applicable terms  of Section 3 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 2. 
       
  3 

(a)   Long-Term Disability  .  In the event you qualify for long-term disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the Company or an Affiliate for its Employees, the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares. Once this provision applies, no other change of status described  in this Section 2 (except the provision regarding termination for Cause) will affect your Performance Shares, even if you subsequently return to active service or your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates other than for Cause. 
  (b)   Death  .  In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to your death, your Performance Shares will be due and payable in Shares (or cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the date of your death, if so determined by the Committee). Any payment will be made at the time specified in Section 8. 
    
  (c)   Retirement.   If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) on after your early retirement date or normal retirement date (in each case determined under any ERISA qualified pension plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate) ("Retirement"), the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares. 
    
  (d)   Bridge Eligibility  . If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) with bridge eligibility for retirement-related medical benefits (determined under an ERISA qualified benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any) ("Bridge Eligibility"), and your separation agreement (offered to you under the severance program offered by the Company or an Affiliate to its Employees) becomes  final, the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares. 
    
  (e)   Termination for Cause  . In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates for Cause, your Performance Shares will be forfeited immediately. 
    
  (f)   Other Termination of Employment  . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 2 regarding change of status applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your termination without Retirement or Bridge Eligibility, or your termination by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause, your Performance Shares will be forfeited immediately unless you are offered a separation agreement by the Company or an Affiliate under a severance program. To the extent your separation agreement becomes final your Prorated Performance  Shares will be due and payable to you. Any payment will be made at the time specified in Section 8. The number of your "Prorated Performance Shares" will be determined by dividing the number of calendar months in the Performance Period that have ended as of the end of the month of the termination of your employment by thirty-six(36), multiplying the result by the number of your Performance Shares, and rounding  to the nearest whole number;   provided  ,   however  , that if the date of the termination of your employment is prior to the first anniversary of the beginning of the Performance Period, then the number of your Prorated Performance Shares shall be zero (0).  Payment for each of your Prorated Performance Shares will be made in cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the Grant Date, and shall be rounded to the nearest one-hundred dollars ($100.00). If your separation agreement does not become final, your Performance Shares will be forfeited. 
    
  3.   Change of  Control  . 
    
  (a) Except as provided in Section 3(b), and unless  otherwise prohibited  under law or by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if a Change of Control occurs, your Performance 
    
  4 

Shares will be due and payable in the form of cash equal to the number of your Performance Shares multiplied by the Change of Control Price. Any payment will be made at the time specified in Section 8. 
    
  (b) The terms of Section 3(a) will not apply to your Performance Shares if the Committee  reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of Control that you have been granted an Alternative Award for your Performance Shares pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Plan. Any such Alternative Award shall not accelerate the timing of payment or otherwise violate Code Section 409A. 
    
  4.   Nontransferability of Awards  .   Except as provided in Section   5   or as otherwise permitted by the Committee, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Performance Shares, and all rights with respect to your Performance Shares are exercisable during your lifetime: only by you. 
    
  5.   Beneficiarv Designation  .   You may name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) who may then exercise any right under this Agreement in the event of your death. Each beneficiary designation for such purpose will revoke all such prior designations. Beneficiary designations must be properly completed on a form prescribed by the Committee and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime. If you have not designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass to and may be exercised by your estate. 
    
  6.   Tax Withholding  .   The Company will withhold from payment made under this Agreement an amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum statutory Federal, state, and local tax withholding requirements relating to payment on account of your Performance Shares. 
    
  7.   Adjustments.     The Committee will make appropriate adjustments in the terms  and conditions of your Performance Shares in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements (such as a Common Stock dividend, Common Stock split, recapitalization, payment of an extraordinary dividend, merger, consolidation, combination, spin off, distribution of assets to stockholders other than ordinary cash dividends, exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change), or in recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the potential benefits of your Performance Shares. The Committee's determinations in this regard will be conclusive. 
    
  8.   Timing of Payment 
    
  (a) This Agreement is intended to comply with Code Section 409A and shall be interpreted accordingly. If  Shares are to be paid to you, you will receive evidence of ownership of those Shares. 
    
  (b) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(b), it will be made upon your death. 
    
   (c) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(f), it will be made six (6) months after  the termination of your employment (or six(6) months after  your "separation from service" under Code Section 409A, if that is a different date). 
    
  (d) If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you within thirty (30) days of the Change of Control. If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable is not a 
    
  5 

"change of control" as defined under Code Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you at the time determined under 
  Section 8(e). 
    
  (e) If payment is due and payable under the Standard Performance Terms and you have chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate, payment will be made at the time determined under that plan. If payment is due and payable under the Standard Performance Terms and you have not chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate, payment will be made in the calendar year after the end of the Performance Period. 
    
  9.   Closing Price  .   For purpose of this  Agreement, "Closing Price" will mean the closing price of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or  on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of the Shares are quoted at the relevant time), or in the event that there are no Share transactions reported on such tape or other system on the applicable date, the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Share transactions were reported. Closing Price shall constitute "Fair Market Value" under the Plan for all purposes related to your Performance Shares. 
    
  10.   No Guarantee of Employment  .   This Agreement is not a contract of employment and it is not a guarantee of employment for life or any period of time. Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate your employment at any time. This Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or an Affiliate. 
    
  11.   Governing Law;  Choice of Forum  .   This Agreement will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of 
  the State of Delaware, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. Any action to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must be brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the Company and you consent. 
    
  12.   Miscellaneous  .   For purposes of this Agreement, "Committee" includes any direct or indirect delegate of the Committee as defined in the Plan and (unless otherwise indicated) the word "Section" refers to a Section in this Agreement. Any other capitalized word used in this Agreement and not defined in this Agreement, including each form of that word, is defined in the Plan.  Any determination or interpretation by the Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive. In the event of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan control. This Agreement and the Plan represent the entire agreement between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding your Performance Shares. No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Performance Shares that are not set forth, or referred to, in this Agreement or in the Plan are part of this Agreement. In the event any provision of this Agreement is held illegal or invalid, the rest of this Agreement will remain enforceable. If you are an Employee of an Affiliate, your Performance Shares are being provided to you by the Company on behalf of that Affiliate, and the value of your Performance Shares will be considered a compensation obligation of that Affiliate. Your Performance Shares are not Shares and do not give you the rights of a holder of Shares. You will not be credited with additional Performance Shares on account of any dividend paid on Shares. The issuance of Shares or payment of cash pursuant to your Performance Shares is subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to any approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required. No Shares will be issued 
    
  6 

or no cash will be paid if that issuance or payment would result in a violation of applicable law, including the federal securities laws and any applicable state or foreign securities laws. 
    
  13.   Amendments.     The Committee has the exclusive right to amend this Agreement as long as the amendment does not adversely affect any of your previously-granted Awards in any material way (without your written consent) and is otherwise consistent with the Plan. The Company will give written notice to you (or, in the event of your death, to your beneficiary or estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption. 
    
  14.    Agreement to Protect Corporate Property  .   The grant of your Performance Shares is subject to your execution of the Agreement to Protect Corporate Property provided to you with this Agreement  (''Property  Agreement"). If you do not return a signed copy  of the Property Agreement, this Agreement and the Performance Shares granted  to you will be void. The Company may in its sole discretion allow an extension of time for you to return your signed Property Agreement. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Agreement, and you have executed this Agreement. 
    
                 METLIFE, INC. 
    EMPLOYEE 
      By:    C. Robert Henrikson     
      
      Name 

Chairman of the Board, 
  President, and Chief Executive Officer     
      
      Title 

_______________________________ 
    ________________________________ 
      Signature 
    Signature 
        
    Date: ___________________________ 

7 

Schedule A 
  to Management Performance Share Agreement 

First percentage is determined for each calendar year of the Performance Period and averaged, and added to second percentage. The total is multiplied by 
     0.75 if the Total Shareholder Return of the Company is zero percent or less, and then multiplied by the number of Performance Shares granted to determine 
     the number of Final Performance Shares. See Section 1 of this Agreement. 

</EX-10.45>

<EX-10.46>
 11
 met-20141231xex1046.htm
 EX-10.46

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.46 

Exhibit 10.46 
  MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SHARE AGREEMENT 
    
  MetLife, Inc. confirms that, on   [grant date]   (the  Grant Date ), it granted you,   [name]  ,   [number]   Performance Shares (your  Performance Shares ). Your Performance Shares are subject to the terms and conditions of this Management Performance Share Agreement (this  Agreement ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ). 
    
  1.   Standard Performance Terms  . 
    
  (a) The terms of this Section 1 shall be referred to as the  Standard Performance Terms  and will apply to your 
  Performance Shares except in so far as Sections 2 (Change of Status) or 3 (Change of Control) apply. 
    
  (b) The Performance Period for your Performance Shares will begin on   [date]  ,   [year]   and end on the December 31 immediately preceding the third anniversary of the beginning of the Performance Period. After the conclusion of the Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing the number of Performance Shares payable in accordance with this Section 1 (your  Final Performance Shares ), and your Final Performance Shares will be due and payable in Shares at the time specified in Section 8. 
    
  (c) If the Committee determines in writing that the Company had net income available to common shareholders for either the third calendar year of the Performance Period or for the Performance Period as a whole, then you will be eligible for a payment of up to 200% of your Performance Shares. Net income available to common shareholders for any period will be determined with reference to the Company s Form 10-K on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the third year of the Performance Period on the date of the Committee s determination. 
    
  (d) If, under Section 1(c), you are eligible for a payment, the Committee will determine your Final Performance Shares by multiplying your Performance Shares by the  Performance Factor.  The Performance Factor means a percentage (from zero to 200%) which is the sum of two other percentages (each from zero to 100%), described in (1) and (2) below, multiplied by the factor determined by (3) below, if applicable. 
    
  (1) The first percentage will be based on the Company s average percentile performance with respect to Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share during the Performance Period relative to the other companies in the Index, determined in the following manner: 
    
  (a) First, the Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share will be determined for the Company and for each of the other companies in the Index, for each calendar year of the Performance Period and the calendar immediately preceding the first calendar year of the Performance Period. For this purpose,  Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share  for each calendar year will have the meaning of that term, or its substantial equivalent, defined in or derived from the Company s quarterly financial supplement for the fourth quarter of the prior year filed with or furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. 

(b) Second, the Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share will be determined for the Company and for each of the other companies in the Index for each calendar year of the Performance Period. For this purpose,  Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share  means Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share for each calendar year of the Performance Period divided by Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share in the immediately preceding calendar year. 
    
  (c) Third, the Company s Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share for each calendar year of the Performance Period will be compared to the Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share for each of the other companies in the Index for the same calendar year to determine the percentage of the other companies in the Index whose performance was less than that of the Company, rounded down to the nearest whole number percentile appearing on the left-hand column of Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement (Company performance greater than every other company in the Index being deemed to be performance in the ninety-ninth percentile), producing the Company s percentile performance relative to the other companies in the Index. 
    
  (d) Fourth, a percentage for each calendar year of the Performance Period will be determined using the percentile determined under Section 1(d)(1)(c) and the corresponding percentage on the right-hand column of Table 1 of Schedule A to this Agreement. 
    
  (e) Finally, the three percentages referenced in Section (1)(d)(1)(d) will be averaged. 
    
  (2) The second percentage will be based on the Company s performance with respect to Proportionate Total Shareholder Return during the Performance Period as a percentage of that of the Index, determine according to Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement, determined in the following manner: 
    
  (a) First, the Initial Closing Price of the Company and the Index will each be determined. For this purpose,  Initial Closing Price  means, in the case of the Company the average Closing Price, and in the case of the Index the value of the Index, in each case for the twenty (20) trading days prior to the first day of the Performance Period. 
    
  (b) Second, the Final Closing Price of the Company and the Index will each be determined. For this purpose,  Final Closing Price  means, in the case of the Company the average Closing Price, and in the case of the Index the value of the Index, in each case for the twenty (20) trading days prior to and including the final day of the Performance Period. 
    
  (c) Third, the Total Shareholder Return of the Company and the Index will each be determined, and expressed as a percentage. For this purpose,  Total Shareholder Return  means the change (plus or minus) from the Initial Closing Price to the Final 
    
  2 

Closing Price, plus (in the case of the Company) dividends (if any) actually paid on Shares on a reinvested basis from the first day of the Performance Period to and including the last day of the Performance Period. 
    
  (d) Fourth, the Proportionate Total Shareholder Return of the Company and the Index will each be determined. For this purpose,  Proportionate Total Shareholder Return  means Total Shareholder Return divided by Initial Closing Price. 
    
  (e) Fifth, the Proportionate Total Shareholder Return of the Index will be subtracted from the Company s Proportionate Total Shareholder Return, and the result rounded up or down to the nearest percentage appearing on the left-hand column of Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement (any result precisely halfway between two percentages being rounded up to the next highest percentage). 
    
  (f) Finally, a percentage will be determined using the result produced under Section 1(d)(2)(e) and the corresponding percentage on the right-hand column of Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement. 
    
  (3) If the Total Shareholder Return of the Company, as determined under Section (1)(d)(2)(c), is zero percent or less, then the sum of the percentages described under Sections (1)(d)(1) and (1)(d)(2) will be multiplied by a factor of seventy- five hundredths (0.75) and rounded up or down to the nearest whole percentage (any result precisely halfway between two percentages being rounded up to the next highest percentage) to determine the Performance Factor. 
    
  (e) For purposes of Section 1(d)(1), the companies in the Index refers to each company, other than the Company, that: (1) does not adopt International Financial Reporting Standards with respect to a reporting period earlier than the reporting period with respect to which the Company does so, 
    
  (2) has publicly reported its earnings in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for each of the two calendar years being compared under Section 1(d)(1)(b); and 
    
  (3) is included in the Standard   Poor s Insurance Index derived from Fortune 500 companies for the entirety of the second of the two calendar years being compared under Section 1(d)(1)(b).. 
    
  (f) For purposes of Section 1(d)(2), the Index refers to the Standard   Poor s Insurance Index derived from Fortune 500 companies, including any weighting of the stock of the companies included in that index that is applied by Standard   Poor s, from time to time. 
    
  2.   Change of Status  .   For purposes of this Section 2, your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate, or among Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment. In the event of a Change of Control, any applicable terms of Section 3 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 2. 
    
  3 

(a)   Long-Term Disability  . In the event you qualify for long-term disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the Company or an Affiliate for its Employees, the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares. Once this provision applies, no other change of status described in this Section 2 (except the provision regarding termination for Cause) will affect your Performance Shares, even if you subsequently return to active service or your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates other than for Cause. 
    
  (b)   Death  . In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to your death, your Performance Shares will be due and payable in Shares (or cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the date of your death, if so determined by the Committee). Any payment will be made at the time specified in Section 8. 
    
  (c)   Retirement  . If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) on after your early retirement date or normal retirement date (in each case determined under any ERISA qualified pension plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate) ( Retirement ), the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares. 
    
  (d)   Bridge Eligibility  . If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) with bridge eligibility for retirement-related medical benefits (determined under an ERISA qualified benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any) ( Bridge Eligibility ), and your separation agreement (offered to you under the severance program offered by the Company or an Affiliate to its Employees) becomes final, the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares. 
    
  (e)   Termination for Cause  . In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates for Cause, your Performance Shares will be forfeited immediately. 
    
  (f)   Other Termination of Employment  . Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 2 regarding change of status applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your termination without Retirement or Bridge Eligibility, or your termination by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause, your Performance Shares will be forfeited immediately unless you are offered a separation agreement by the Company or an Affiliate under a severance program. To the extent your separation agreement becomes final, your Prorated Performance Shares will be due and payable to you. Any payment will be made at the time specified in Section 8. The number of your  Prorated Performance Shares  will be determined by dividing the number of calendar months in the Performance Period that have ended as of the end of the month of the termination of your employment by thirty-six (36), multiplying the result by the number of your Performance Shares, and rounding to the nearest whole number, and, if you were an Insider or an  executive officer  of the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder, at any time during the Performance Period, further multiplying the result by the lesser of 100% or the Performance Factor;   provided, however  , that if the date of the termination of your employment is prior to the first anniversary of the beginning of the Performance Period, then the number of your Prorated Performance Shares shall be zero (0). Payment for each of your Prorated Performance Shares will be made in cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the Grant Date, and shall be rounded to the nearest one-hundred dollars ($100.00);   provided, however  , that if you were an Insider or an  executive officer  of the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder, at any time during the Performance Period, payment for each of your Prorated Performance Shares will be made in cash at a value equal to the lesser of the 
    
  4 

Closing Price on the Grant Date or the Closing Price on the date the Committee determines the Performance Factor, and shall be rounded to the nearest one-hundred dollars ($100.00). If your separation agreement does not become final, your Performance Shares will be forfeited. 
    
  3.   Change of Control  . 
    
  (a) Except as provided in Section 3(b), and unless otherwise prohibited under law or by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if a Change of Control occurs, your Performance Shares will be due and payable in the form of cash equal to the number of your Performance Shares multiplied by the Change of Control Price. Any payment will be made at the time specified in Section 8. 
    
  (b) The terms of Section 3(a) will not apply to your Performance Shares if the Committee reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of Control, that you have been granted an Alternative Award for your Performance Shares pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Plan. Any such Alternative Award shall not accelerate the timing of payment or otherwise violate Code Section 409A. 
    
  4.   Nontransferability of Awards  .   Except as provided in Section 5 or as otherwise permitted by the Committee, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Performance Shares, and all rights with respect to your Performance Shares are exercisable during your lifetime only by you. 
    
  5.   Beneficiary Designation  .   You may name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) who may then exercise any right under this Agreement in the event of your death. Each beneficiary designation for such purpose will revoke all such prior designations. Beneficiary designations must be properly completed on a form prescribed by the Committee and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime. If you have not designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass to and may be exercised by your estate. 
    
  6.   Tax Withholding  .   The Company will withhold from payment made under this Agreement an amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum statutory Federal, state, and local tax withholding requirements relating to payment on account of your Performance Shares. 
    
  7.   Adjustments  .   The Committee will make appropriate adjustments in the terms and conditions of your Performance Shares in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements (such as a Common Stock dividend, Common Stock split, recapitalization, payment of an extraordinary dividend, merger, consolidation, combination, spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders other than ordinary cash dividends, exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change), or in recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the potential benefits of your Performance Shares. The Committee s determinations in this regard will be conclusive. 
    
  8.   Timing of Payment  . 
    
  (a) This Agreement is intended to comply with Code Section 409A and shall be interpreted accordingly. If Shares are to be paid to you, you will receive evidence of ownership of those Shares. 
    
  (b) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(b), it will be made upon your death. 
    
  5 

(c) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(f), it will be made six (6) months after the termination of your employment (or six (6) months after your  separation from service  under Code Section 409A, if that is a different date);   provided, however  , that if you were an Insider or an  executive officer  of the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder, at any time during the Performance Period, payment will be made in the calendar year after the end of the Performance Period but in no event earlier than six (6) months after the termination of your employment (or six months after your  separation from service  under Code Section 409A, if that is a different date). 
    
  (d) If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable is a  change of control  as defined under Code Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you within thirty (30) days of the Change of Control. If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable is not a  change of control  as defined under Code Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you at the time determined under Section 8(e). 
    
  (e) If payment is due and payable under the Standard Performance Terms and you have chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate, payment will be made at the time determined under that plan. If payment is due and payable under the Standard Performance Terms and you have not chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate, payment will be made in the calendar year after the end of the Performance Period. 
    
  9.   Closing Price  .   For purpose of this Agreement,  Closing Price  will mean the closing price of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of the Shares are quoted at the relevant time), or in the event that there are no Share transactions reported on such tape or other system on the applicable date, the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Share transactions were reported. Closing Price shall constitute  Fair Market Value  under the Plan for all purposes related to your Performance Shares. 
    
  10.   No Guarantee of Employment  .   This Agreement is not a contract of employment and it is not a guarantee of employment for life or any period of time. Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate your employment at any time. This Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or an Affiliate. 
    
  11.   Governing Law; Choice of Forum  .   This Agreement will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. Any action to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must be brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the Company and you consent. 
    
  12.   Miscellaneous  .   For purposes of this Agreement,  Committee  includes any direct or indirect delegate of the Committee as defined in the Plan and (unless otherwise indicated) the word  Section  refers to a Section in this Agreement. Any other capitalized word used in this Agreement and not defined in this Agreement, including each form of that word, is defined in the Plan. Any determination or interpretation by the Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and 
    
  6 

conclusive. In the event of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan control. This Agreement and the Plan represent the entire agreement between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding your Performance Shares. No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Performance Shares that are not set forth, or referred to, in this Agreement or in the Plan are part of this Agreement. In the event any provision of this Agreement is held illegal or invalid, the rest of this Agreement will remain enforceable. If you are an Employee of an Affiliate, your Performance Shares are being provided to you by the Company on behalf of that Affiliate, and the value of your Performance Shares will be considered a compensation obligation of that Affiliate. Your Performance Shares are not Shares and do not give you the rights of a holder of Shares. You will not be credited with additional Performance Shares on account of any dividend paid on Shares. The issuance of Shares or payment of cash pursuant to your Performance Shares is subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to any approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required. No Shares will be issued or no cash will be paid if that issuance or payment would result in a violation of applicable law, including the federal securities laws and any applicable state or foreign securities laws. Your Performance Shares are subject to the Company s performance-based compensation recoupment policy (which currently covers only officers or officer-equivalent employees of the Company and its Affiliates) in effect from time to time. 
    
  13.   Amendments  .   The Committee has the exclusive right to amend this Agreement as long as the amendment does not adversely affect any of your previously-granted Awards in any material way (without your written consent) and is otherwise consistent with the Plan. The Company will give written notice to you (or, in the event of your death, to your beneficiary or estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption. 
    
  14.   Agreement to Protect Corporate Property  .   If you have not previously executed an Agreement to Protect Corporate Property ( Property Agreement ), the grant of your Performance Shares is subject to your execution of the Property Agreement provided to you by the Company with respect to this Agreement, and if you do not return a signed copy of the Property Agreement then this Agreement and the Performance Shares granted to you will be void. The Company may in its sole discretion allow an extension of time for you to return your signed Property Agreement. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Agreement, and you have executed this Agreement. 
                 METLIFE, INC. 
    EMPLOYEE 
      By:    C. Robert Henrikson     
    [name] 
      Name 

Chairman of the Board, 
  President, and Chief Executive Officer     
      
      Title 

_______________________________ 
    ________________________________ 
      Signature 
    Signature 
        
    Date: ___________________________ 

7 

Schedule A 
  to Management Performance Share Agreement 

______________ 
       
           * 
    First percentage is determined for each calendar year of the Performance  Period and averaged, and added to second percentage.  The total is multiplied by 0.75 if the Total Shareholder Return of fhe Company  is zero percent or less, and then multiplied by the number of Performance Shares granted to determine the number of Final Performance  Shares. See 
     Section 1 of this Agreement 

</EX-10.46>

<EX-10.47>
 12
 met-20141231xex1047.htm
 EX-10.47

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.47 

Exhibit 10.47 
  MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE SHARE AGREEMENT 
  MetLife, Inc. confirms that, on   [grant date]   (the  Grant Date ), it granted you,   [name]  ,   [number]   Performance Shares (your  Performance Shares ).  Your Performance Shares are subject to the terms and conditions of this Management Performance Share Agreement (this  Agreement ) and the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ). 
  1.    Standard Performance Terms  .     
  (a)  The terms of this Section 1 shall be referred to as the  Standard Performance Terms  and will apply to your Performance Shares except in so far as Sections 2 (Change of Status) or 3 (Change of Control) apply.     
  (b)  The Performance Period for your Performance Shares will begin on   [date]  ,   [year]   and end on the December 31 immediately preceding the third anniversary of the beginning of the Performance Period.  After the conclusion of the Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing the number of Performance Shares payable in accordance with this Section 1 (your  Final Performance Shares ), and your Final Performance Shares will be due and payable in Shares at the time specified in Section 8.   
  (c)  If the Committee determines in writing that the Company met one or more of the Section 162(m) Goals, then you will be eligible for a payment of up to 200% of your Performance Shares.  The  Section 162(m) Goals  shall be the following: 
  (1)  Positive Company income from continuing operations before provision for income tax, excluding total net investment gains (losses) (defined in accordance with Section 3(a) of Article 7.04 of SEC Regulation S-X), as defined on the Company Statement of Income for 2009 ( Adjusted Income ), for the Performance Period. 
  (2)  Positive Adjusted Income for the third calendar year of the Performance Period.  
  (3)  Positive Company Proportionate Total Shareholder Return for the Performance Period, as defined for the Company in Section 1(d)(2). 
  (4)  Positive Company Proportionate Total Shareholder Return for the third calendar year of the Performance Period, as defined for the Company in Section 1(d)(2) with respect to the third calendar year of the Performance Period. 
  (d)  If, under Section 1(c), you are eligible for a payment, the Committee will determine your Final Performance Shares by multiplying your Performance Shares by the  Performance Factor.   The Performance Factor means a percentage (from zero to 200%) which is the sum of two other percentages (each from zero to 100%), described in (1) and (2) below, multiplied by the factor determined by (3) below, if applicable. 
  (1)  The first percentage will be based on the Company s average percentile performance with respect to Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common  

Shareholders Per Share during the Performance Period relative to the other companies in the Index, determined in the following manner: 
  (a) First, the Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share will be determined for the Company and for each of the other companies in the Index, for each calendar year of the Performance Period and the calendar immediately preceding the first calendar year of the Performance Period.  For this purpose,  Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share  for each calendar year will have the meaning of that term, or its substantial equivalent, defined in or derived from the Company s quarterly financial supplement for the fourth quarter of the prior year filed with or furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. 
  (b)  Second, the Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share will be determined for the Company and for each of the other companies in the Index for each calendar year of the Performance Period.  For this purpose,  Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share  means Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share for each calendar year of the Performance Period divided by Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share in the immediately preceding calendar year. 
  (c)  Third, the Company s Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share for each calendar year of the Performance Period will be compared to the Change in Annual Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders Per Share for each of the other companies in the Index for the same calendar year     to determine the percentage of the other companies in the Index whose performance was less than that of the Company, rounded down to the nearest whole number percentile appearing on the left-hand column of Table 1 of Schedule A to this Agreement (Company performance greater than every other company in the Index being deemed to be performance in the ninety-ninth percentile), producing the Company s percentile performance relative to the other companies in the Index. 
  (d)  Fourth, a percentage for each calendar year of the Performance Period will be determined using the percentile determined under Section 1(d)(1)(c) and the corresponding percentage on the right-hand column of Table 1 of Schedule A to this Agreement. 
  (e)  Finally, the three percentages referenced in Section (1)(d)(1)(d) will be averaged. 
  (2)  The second percentage will be based on the Company s performance with respect to Proportionate Total Shareholder Return during the Performance Period as a percentage of that of the Index, determined according to Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement, determined in the following manner: 
    2 

(a)  First, the Initial Closing Price of the Company and the Index will each be determined.  For this purpose,  Initial Closing Price  means, in the case of the Company the average Closing Price, and in the case of the Index the value of the Index, in each case for the twenty (20) trading days prior to the first day of the Performance Period. 
  (b)  Second, the Final Closing Price of the Company and the Index will each be determined.  For this purpose,  Final Closing Price  means, in the case of the Company the average Closing Price, and in the case of the Index the value of the Index, in each case for the twenty (20) trading days prior to and including the final day of the Performance Period. 
  (c)  Third, the Total Shareholder Return of the Company and the Index will each be determined, and expressed as a percentage.  For this purpose,  Total Shareholder Return  means the change (plus or minus) from the Initial Closing Price to the Final Closing Price, plus (in the case of the Company) dividends (if any) actually paid on Shares on a reinvested basis from the first day of the Performance Period to and including the last day of the Performance Period. 
  (d)  Fourth, the Proportionate Total Shareholder Return of the Company and the Index will each be determined.  For this purpose,  Proportionate Total Shareholder Return  means Total Shareholder Return divided by Initial Closing Price. 
  (e)  Fifth, the Proportionate Total Shareholder Return of the Index will be subtracted from the Company s Proportionate Total Shareholder Return, and the result rounded up or down to the nearest percentage appearing on the left-hand column of Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement (any result precisely halfway between two percentages being rounded up to the next highest percentage). 
  (f)  Finally, a percentage will be determined using the result produced under Section 1(d)(2)(e) and the corresponding percentage on the right-hand column of Table 2 of Schedule A to this Agreement. 
  (3)  If the Total Shareholder Return of the Company, as determined under Section (1)(d)(2)(c), is zero percent or less, then the sum of the percentages described under Sections (1)(d)(1) and (1)(d)(2) will be multiplied by a factor of seventy-five hundredths (0.75) and rounded up or down to the nearest whole percentage (any result precisely halfway between two percentages being rounded up to the next highest percentage) to determine the Performance Factor. 
  (e)  For purposes of Section 1(d)(1), the companies in the Index refers to each company, other than the Company, that:  
  (1)  does not adopt International Financial Reporting Standards with respect to a reporting period earlier than the reporting period with respect to which the Company does so,  
    3 

(2)  has publicly reported its earnings in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for each of the two calendar years being compared under Section 1(d)(1)(b); and  
  (3) is included in the Standard   Poor s Insurance Index derived from Fortune 500 companies for the entirety of the second of the two calendar years being compared under Section 1(d)(1)(b).. 
  (f)  For purposes of Section 1(d)(2), the Index refers to the Standard   Poor s Insurance Index derived from Fortune 500 companies, including any weighting of the stock of the companies included in that index that is applied by Standard   Poor s, from time to time. 
  2.    Change of Status  .    For purposes of this Section 2, your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate, or among Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment.  In the event of a Change of Control, any applicable terms of Section 3 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 2. 
  (a)    Long-Term Disability  .  In the event you qualify for long-term disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the Company or an Affiliate for its Employees, the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares.  Once this provision applies, no other change of status described in this Section 2 (except the provision regarding termination for Cause) will affect your Performance Shares, even if you subsequently return to active service or your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates other than for Cause. 
  (b)    Death  .  In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates due to your death, your Performance Shares will be due and payable in Shares (or cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the date of your death, if so determined by the Committee).  Any payment will be made at the time specified in Section 8. 
  (c)    Retirement  .  If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) on after your early retirement date or normal retirement date (in each case determined under any ERISA qualified pension plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate) ( Retirement ), the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares. 
  (d)    Bridge Eligibility  .  If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) with bridge eligibility for retirement-related medical benefits (determined under an ERISA qualified benefit plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any) ( Bridge Eligibility ), and your separation agreement (offered to you under the severance program offered by the Company or an Affiliate to its Employees) becomes final, the Standard Performance Terms will continue to apply to your Performance Shares. 
  (e)    Termination for Cause  .  In the event that your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates for Cause, your Performance Shares will be forfeited immediately.  
  (f)    Other Termination of Employment  .  Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 2 regarding change of status applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your termination without Retirement or Bridge Eligibility, or your termination by the Company or an Affiliate without Cause, your Performance Shares will be  
    4 

forfeited immediately unless you are offered a separation agreement by the Company or an Affiliate under a severance program.  To the extent your separation agreement becomes final, your Prorated Performance Shares will be due and payable to you.  Any payment will be made at the time specified in Section 8.  The number of your  Prorated Performance Shares  will be determined by dividing the number of calendar months in the Performance Period that have ended as of the end of the month of the termination of your employment by thirty-six (36), multiplying the result by the number of your Performance Shares, and rounding to the nearest whole number, and, if you were an Insider or an  executive officer  of the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder, at any time during the Performance Period, further multiplying the result by the lesser of 100% or the Performance Factor;   provided, however  , that if the date of the termination of your employment is prior to the first anniversary of the beginning of the Performance Period, then the number of your Prorated Performance Shares shall be zero (0).  Payment for each of your Prorated Performance Shares will be made in cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on the Grant Date, and shall be rounded to the nearest one-hundred dollars ($100.00);   provided, however  , that if you were an Insider or an  executive officer  of the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder, at any time during the Performance Period, payment for each of your Prorated Performance Shares will be made in cash at a value equal to the lesser of the Closing Price on the Grant Date or the Closing Price on the date the Committee determines the Performance Factor, and shall be rounded to the nearest one-hundred dollars ($100.00).  If your separation agreement does not become final, your Performance Shares will be forfeited. 
  3.    Change of Control  . 
  (a)  Except as provided in Section 3(b), and unless otherwise prohibited under law or by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if a Change of Control occurs, your Performance Shares will be due and payable in the form of cash equal to the number of your Performance Shares multiplied by the Change of Control Price.  Any payment will be made at the time specified in Section 8. 
  (b)  The terms of Section 3(a) will not apply to your Performance Shares if the Committee reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of Control, that you have been granted an Alternative Award for your Performance Shares pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Plan.  Any such Alternative Award shall not accelerate the timing of payment or otherwise violate Code Section 409A. 
  4.    Nontransferability of Awards  .    Except as provided in Section 5 or as otherwise permitted by the Committee, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Performance Shares, and all rights with respect to your Performance Shares are exercisable during your lifetime only by you.  
  5.    Beneficiary Designation  .    You may name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or successively) who may then exercise any right under this Agreement in the event of your death.  Each beneficiary designation for such purpose will revoke all such prior designations.  Beneficiary designations must be properly completed on a form prescribed by the Committee and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime.  If you have not designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass to and may be exercised by your estate. 
    5 

6.    Tax Withholding  .    The Company will withhold from payment made under this Agreement an amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum statutory Federal, state, and local tax withholding requirements relating to payment on account of your Performance Shares. 
  7.    Adjustments  .    The Committee will make appropriate adjustments in the terms and conditions of your Performance Shares in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements (such as a Common Stock dividend, Common Stock split, recapitalization, payment of an extraordinary dividend, merger, consolidation, combination, spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders other than ordinary cash dividends, exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change), or in recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the potential benefits of your Performance Shares.  The Committee s determinations in this regard will be conclusive. 
  8.    Timing of Payment  .     
  (a)  This Agreement is intended to comply with Code Section 409A and shall be interpreted accordingly.  If Shares are to be paid to you, you will receive evidence of ownership of those Shares. 
  (b)  If payment is due and payable under Section 2(b), it will be made upon your death. 
  (c)  If payment is due and payable under Section 2(f), it will be made six (6) months after the termination of your employment (or six (6) months after your  separation from service  under Code Section 409A, if that is a different date);   provided, however  , that if you were an Insider or an  executive officer  of the Company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder, at any time during the Performance Period, payment will be made in the calendar year after the end of the Performance Period but in no event earlier than six (6) months after the termination of your employment (or six months after your  separation from service  under Code Section 409A, if that is a different date). 
  (d)  If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable is a  change of control  as defined under Code Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you within thirty (30) days of the Change of Control.  If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes payment to be due and payable is not a  change of control  as defined under Code Section 409A, such sum shall be paid to you at the time determined under Section 8(e). 
  (e)  If payment is due and payable under the Standard Performance Terms and you have chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate, payment will be made at the time determined under that plan.  If payment is due and payable under the Standard Performance Terms and you have not chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate, payment will be made in the calendar year after the end of the Performance Period. 
  9.    Closing Price  .    For purpose of this Agreement,  Closing Price  will mean the closing price of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of the Shares are quoted at the relevant time), or in the event that there are no Share transactions reported on  
    6 

such tape or other system on the applicable date, the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Share transactions were reported.  Closing Price shall constitute  Fair Market Value  under the Plan for all purposes related to your Performance Shares. 
  10.    No Guarantee of Employment  .    This Agreement is not a contract of employment and it is not a guarantee of employment for life or any period of time.  Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate your employment at any time.  This Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or an Affiliate. 
  11.    Governing Law; Choice of Forum  .    This Agreement will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws.  Any action to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must be brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the Company and you consent. 
  12.    Miscellaneous  .    For purposes of this Agreement,  Committee  includes any direct or indirect delegate of the Committee as defined in the Plan and (unless otherwise indicated) the word  Section  refers to a Section in this Agreement.  Any other capitalized word used in this Agreement and not defined in this Agreement, including each form of that word, is defined in the Plan.  Any determination or interpretation by the Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive.  In the event of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan control.  This Agreement and the Plan represent the entire agreement between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding your Performance Shares.  No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your Performance Shares that are not set forth, or referred to, in this Agreement or in the Plan are part of this Agreement.  In the event any provision of this Agreement is held illegal or invalid, the rest of this Agreement will remain enforceable.  If you are an Employee of an Affiliate, your Performance Shares are being provided to you by the Company on behalf of that Affiliate, and the value of your Performance Shares will be considered a compensation obligation of that Affiliate.  Your Performance Shares are not Shares and do not give you the rights of a holder of Shares.  You will not be credited with additional Performance Shares on account of any dividend paid on Shares.  The issuance of Shares or payment of cash pursuant to your Performance Shares is subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to any approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.  No Shares will be issued or no cash will be paid if that issuance or payment would result in a violation of applicable law, including the federal securities laws and any applicable state or foreign securities laws.  Your Performance Shares are subject to the Company s performance-based compensation recoupment policy (which currently covers only officers or officer-equivalent employees of the Company and its Affiliates) in effect from time to time. 
  13.    Amendments  .    The Committee has the exclusive right to amend this Agreement as long as the amendment does not adversely affect any of your previously-granted Awards in any material way (without your written consent) and is otherwise consistent with the Plan.  The Company will give written notice to you (or, in the event of your death, to your beneficiary or estate) of any amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption. 
    7 

14.    Agreement to Protect Corporate Property  .    If you have not previously executed an Agreement to Protect Corporate Property ( Property Agreement ), the grant of your Performance Shares is subject to your execution of the Property Agreement provided to you by the Company with respect to this Agreement, and if you do not return a signed copy of the Property Agreement then this Agreement and the Performance Shares granted to you will be void.  The Company may in its sole discretion allow an extension of time for you to return your signed Property Agreement. 
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Agreement, and you have executed this Agreement. 
                 METLIFE, INC. 
    EMPLOYEE 
      By:      C. Robert Henrikson       
    [name] 
      Name 

Chairman of the Board,      President, and Chief Executive Officer 
      
      Title 

_______________________________ 
    ________________________________ 
      Signature 
    Signature 
        
    Date: ___________________________ 

8 

Schedule A 
  to Management Performance Share Agreement 

*  First percentage is determined for each calendar year of the Performance Period and averaged, and added to second percentage.  The total is multiplied by 0.75 if the Total Shareholder Return of the Company is zero percent or less, and then multiplied by the number of Performance Shares granted to determine the number of Final Performance Shares.  See Section 1 of this Agreement. 
    2 

</EX-10.47>

<EX-10.66>
 13
 met-20141231xex1066.htm
 EX-10.66

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.66 

Exhibit 10.66 
  MetLife Annual Variable Incentive Plan 
    
  Article 1.  Purpose, Effectiveness, and Duration 
  1.1    Purpose of the Plan  .  The purpose of the MetLife Annual Variable Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) is to align total annual pay with the Company s annual financial business results, provide competitive levels of pay for competitive levels of Company performance, and make a competitive portion of total compensation variable based on Company, business unit, and individual performance. 
  1.2        Effective Date  .  The Plan shall become effective on the Effective Date and shall amend, restate, and supersede the prior   Annual Variable Incentive Plan   if approved by the Board and shareholders of the Company.  In the absence of shareholder approval, the Plan and any Awards granted pursuant to the Plan prior to the date of such approval shall be null and void. 
  1.3        Duration of the Plan  .  The Plan shall remain in effect indefinitely, subject to the right of the Committee or the Board to amend or terminate the Plan at any time pursuant to Article 9 herein. 
  Article 2.  Definitions 
  Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meaning set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word shall be capitalized.  
           2.1 
     Affiliate    shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations of the Exchange Act, with reference to the Company, and shall also include any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, or other entity in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of the total combined Voting Power of such corporation or of the capital interest or profits interest of such partnership or other entity. 
              2.2 
     Award    means an annual incentive compensation award payable under this Plan and subject to its terms. 
              2.3 
     Beneficiary    means the person or persons entitled to receive payments or other benefits or exercise rights that are available under the Plan, if any, in the event of the Participant s death. 
              2.4 
     Board  or  Board of Directors    means the Board of Directors of the Company. 
              2.5 
     Code    means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, or any successor thereto. 
              2.6 
     Committee    means the Compensation Committee of the Board, or such other committee as may be appointed by the Board for the purpose of administering the Plan. 
              2.7 
     Company    means MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto. 
       1 

2.8 
     Director    means any individual who is a member of the Board of Directors. 
               2.10 
     Employee    means any employee of the Company or an Affiliate.  Directors who are not otherwise employed by the Company or an Affiliate shall not be considered Employees under this Plan.  For greater clarity, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, individuals described in the first sentence of this definition who are foreign nationals or are employed outside of the United States, or both, are Employees to whom Awards may be granted on the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan, or (in the case of any individuals who are not Insiders) on such other terms and conditions as may, in the judgment of the Committee, be necessary or desirable to further the purposes of the Plan. 
              2.11 
     Exchange Act    means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor act thereto. 
              2.12 
     Insider    means an individual who is, on the relevant date, subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor act thereto. 
              2.13 
     Participant    means an Employee of the Company or an Affiliate who has been selected to receive an Award under the terms of the Plan. 
              2.14 
     Performance-Based Compensation    means compensation to an Insider pursuant to an Award that is granted in order to provide remuneration solely on account of the attainment of one or more preestablished, objective Performance Measures under circumstances that satisfy the requirements of Code Section 162(m). 
              2.15 
     Performance Goal    means a performance criterion selected by the Committee for a given Award for purposes of Article 11 based on one or more of the Performance Measures. 
              2.16 
     Performance Measures    means measures as described in Article 5, the attainment of one or more of which shall, as determined by the Committee, determine whether Awards shall be payable as Performance-Based Compensation.    
              2.17 
     Plan    means the MetLife Annual Variable Incentive Plan. 
              2.18 
     Voting Power    shall mean such number of Voting Securities as shall enable the holders thereof to cast a specified percentage of the votes which could be cast in an annual election of directors of a company. 
              2.19 
    "Voting Securities"   shall mean all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual election of directors of a company 
     Article 3.  Eligibility and Participation 
  3.1    Eligibility  .  Each Employee is eligible to participate in the Plan.  
    2 

3.2        Participation  .  Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may from time to time select from all eligible Employees those to whom Awards shall be granted. 
  Article 4.  Award Terms 
  4.1  Grant of Awards  .      The Committee shall grant all Awards on and after the Effective Date and determine in its discretion the amount, nature, and any and all terms and conditions permissible by law of each Award.  Subject to the requirements of Code Section 162(m) with regard to Awards intended to be Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may grant Awards (a) in advance of and contingent upon the attainment of any performance criteria or other contingencies applicable to the Award; (b) following the attainment of any performance criteria or other contingencies the Committee previously made prospectively applicable to an anticipated or possible Award; or (c) that are and were not contingent upon the attainment of any performance criteria or other contingencies. 
  4.2  Maximum Limit Regarding Awards  .  The maximum aggregate amount awarded or credited with respect to an Award to any one Participant in any one-year period may not exceed ten million dollars ($10,000,000.00) determined as of the date the Award is payable. 
  4.3  Form of Payment  .  All Awards granted under this Plan shall, if payable, be payable in cash unless otherwise determined by the Committee. 
  4.4  Deferral of Award  . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Committee may permit or require a Participant to defer such Participant s receipt of any Award under the terms of this Plan or another plan.  To the extent such deferral is permitted by the Committee under the terms of this Plan rather than another plan, the Committee shall establish rules and procedures for such deferrals as it sees fit. 
  Article 5. Performance-Based Compensation 
  Notwithstanding any other terms of this Plan, the vesting, payability, or value (as determined under the performance formula set by the Committee) of each Award that the Committee intends, at time of grant, to be Performance-Based Compensation to an Insider shall be determined by the attainment of one or more Performance Goals as determined by the Committee in conformity with Code Section 162(m).  The Committee shall specify in writing, by resolution or otherwise, the Participants eligible to receive such an Award (which may be expressed in terms of a class of individuals) and the Performance Goal(s) applicable to such Awards within ninety (90) days after the commencement of the period to which the Performance Goal(s) relate(s) or such earlier time as required to comply with Code Section 162(m).  No such Award shall be payable unless the Committee certifies in writing, by resolution or otherwise, that the Performance Goal(s) applicable to the Award were satisfied.  In no case may the Committee increase the value of an Award of Performance-Based Compensation above the maximum value determined under the performance formula by the attainment of the applicable Performance Goal(s), but the Committee may retain discretion to reduce the value below such maximum. 
  Unless and until the Committee proposes for shareholder vote and the shareholders approve a change in the general Performance Measures set forth in this Article 5, the Performance Goal(s) upon which the payment of an Award to an Insider that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation shall be limited to the following Performance Measures: 
    3 

(a) 
    Net earnings or net income (before or after taxes); 
              (b) 
    Earnings per share; 
              (c) 
    Net sales growth; 
              (d) 
    Net operating profit; 
              (e) 
    Operating earnings; 
              (f) 
    Operating earnings per share 
              (g) 
    Return measures (including, but not limited to, return on assets, capital, equity, or sales); 
              (h) 
    Cash flow (including, but not limited to, operating cash flow, free cash flow, and cash flow return on capital); 
              (i) 
    Earnings before or after taxes, interest, depreciation, and/or amortization and including/excluding capital gains and losses; 
              (j) 
    Gross or operating margins; 
              (k) 
    Productivity ratios; 
              (l) 
    Share price (including, but not limited to, growth measures and total shareholder return); 
              (m) 
    Expense targets; 
              (n) 
    Margins; 
              (o) 
    Operating efficiency; 
              (p) 
    Customer satisfaction; 
              (q) 
    Employee and/or Agent satisfaction;  
              (r) 
    Working capital targets; 
              (s) 
    Economic Value Added 
              (t) 
    Revenue growth; 
              (u) 
    Assets under management growth; and 
              (v) 
    Rating Agencies  ratings. 
       
  Any Performance Measure may be used to measure the performance of the Company as a whole, any Affiliate, any business unit of the Company or any Affiliate, or any combination thereof, as the Committee may deem appropriate, or any of the above Performance Measures as compared to the performance of a group of comparator companies, or published or special index that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.  The Committee also has the authority to provide for accelerated vesting or payability of any Award based on the achievement of Performance Goal(s)s. 
  The Committee may provide that any evaluation of attainment of a Performance Goal may include or exclude any of the following events that occurs during the relevant period:  (a) asset write-downs; (b) litigation or claim judgments or settlements; (c) the effect of changes in tax laws, accounting principles, or other laws or provisions affecting reported results; (d) any reorganization and restructuring programs; (e) extraordinary nonrecurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Company s annual report to shareholders for the applicable year; (f) acquisitions or divestitures; and (g) foreign exchange gains and losses.  To the extent such inclusions or exclusions affect Awards to Insider, they shall be prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility. 
  In the event that applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit Committee discretion to alter the governing Performance Measures without obtaining shareholder approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such changes without obtaining shareholder  
    4 

approval.  In addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards to Insiders that shall not qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m). 
  Article 6. Termination of Employment 
  The Committee shall determine the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive an Award following termination of the Participant s employment with the Company or an Affiliate.  Such terms need not be uniform among all Participants and Awards, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination or any other bases permissible by law. 
  Article 7. Beneficiary Designation 
  A Participant may designate a Beneficiary or change a previous Beneficiary by using forms and following procedures approved or accepted by the Company or an Affiliate for that purpose.  If, at the Participant s death, no Beneficiary designated by the Participant is eligible to receive payments or other benefits or exercise rights that are available under the Plan, the Beneficiary shall be the Participant s surviving spouse or, should the Participant have no surviving spouse, the Participant s estate.  The Committee may, in its discretion, modify the foregoing, institute additional requirements for beneficiary designations, or suspend the existing beneficiary designations of living Participants or the process of determining beneficiaries under this Article 7, or both, in favor of another method of determining beneficiaries. 
  Article 8. Administration 
  8.1    General  .  The Committee shall be responsible for administering the Plan.  The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, and other individuals, any of whom may be an Employee, and the Committee, the Company, and its officers and directors shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions, or valuations of any such persons.  All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Participants, the Company, Affiliates, and all other interested parties. 
  8.2        Authority of the Committee  .  The Committee shall have full and exclusive discretionary power to interpret the terms and the intent of the Plan or other agreement or document ancillary to or in connection with the Plan, to determine eligibility for Awards, to determine the terms and conditions of Awards, and to adopt such rules, regulations, and guidelines for administering the Plan or exercising any of its rights or responsibilities as the Committee may deem necessary or proper.  Such authority shall include, but not be limited to, selecting Award recipients, establishing all Award terms and conditions and, subject to Article 9, adopting modifications and amendments. 
  8.3        Delegation  . The Committee may delegate to one or more of its members or to one or more officers of the Company or its Affiliates, any of its duties or powers as it may deem advisable;   provided, however  , that the Committee may not delegate any of its non-administrative powers with respect to Awards intended to be Performance-Based Compensation, and   provided further  , that the member(s) or officer(s) shall report periodically to the Committee regarding the nature and scope of the Awards granted pursuant to the authority delegated pursuant to this Section 3.3.  Subject to the terms of the previous sentence, the Committee may delegate to any person(s) such administrative duties or powers as it may deem advisable. 
    5 

Article 9.  Amendment and Termination of the Plan 
  9.1    Amendment, Modification, Suspension, and Termination  .  The Committee or Board may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify, suspend, or terminate the Plan in whole or in part.  No amendment of the Plan shall be effective without shareholder approval if shareholder approval is required by law, regulation, or stock exchange rule. 
  9.2    Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events  .  The Committee may make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events affecting the Company or the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan.  The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under the Plan.  Adjustment to Awards constituting Performance-Based Compensation shall be made only if such Awards subsequent to such adjustments meet the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility. 
  9.3    Awards Previously Granted  .  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary with the exception of Section 1.2, no termination, amendment, suspension, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under the Plan without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award. 
  Article 10. General Provisions 
  10.1    Interpretation  . The Plan is designed and intended to comply, to the extent applicable to Performance-Based Compensation, with Code Section 162(m), and all provisions hereof shall be construed in a manner to so comply. 
  10.2    Nontransferability  . Except as otherwise provided by the Committee, Awards may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  Except as otherwise provided by the Committee, a Participant s rights under the Plan, if any, shall be exercisable during the Participant s lifetime only by the Participant. 
  10.3    Participant Rights  .  No Participant shall have any right to an Award under the Plan.  The Committee is not obligated to set terms of Awards that are uniform among Participants or Awards. 
  10.4    No Right to Continued Employment  .  Neither eligibility to participate nor participation in the Plan shall confer upon a Participant any right to continuation of employment by the Company or any Affiliate, nor shall the Plan interfere in any way with the Company s or any Affiliate s or any employee s right to terminate a Participant s employment at any time. 
  10.5    Withholding Taxes  . The Company and each Affiliate shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company or Affiliate, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes, domestic or foreign (including the Participant s FICA obligation), required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising or as a result of this Plan. 
    6 

10.6    Requirements of Law  .  Awards shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations.  The inability of the Company or an Affiliate to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction which authority is deemed by the Company s or the Affiliate s counsel to be necessary to the lawful payment hereunder shall relieve the Company or Affiliate of any liability for the failure to make a payment as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. 
  10.7    Unfunded Plan  .  Participants shall have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company or any Affiliate may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under the Plan. Nothing contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and any Participant, beneficiary, legal representative, or any other person.  Awards shall be general, unsecured obligations of the Company or Affiliate employing the Participant at the time payment pursuant to an Award is due.  Should neither the Company nor an Affiliate employ the Participant at the time payment pursuant to an Award is due, the Award shall be the general, unsecured obligation of the last of the Company or Affiliate to employ the Participant (as such employment is specified in the Human Resources records of the Company and Affiliates) prior to the time payment is due.  To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company or Affiliate, as applicable.  All payments made under the Plan shall be paid from the general funds of the Company or Affiliate, as applicable, and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as expressly set forth in the Plan.  The Plan is not intended to be subject to ERISA.  Notwithstanding any of the other terms of this Plan, no Affiliate shall be liable for an Award unless the Affiliate has approved or ratified the Plan or the Award. 
  10.8    Other Compensation and Benefit Plans  .  Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to limit the right of the Company or any Affiliate to establish other compensation or benefit plans, programs, policies, or arrangements.  Except as may be otherwise specifically stated in any other benefit plan, policy, program, or arrangement, no Award shall be treated as compensation for purposes of calculating a Participant s rights under any such other plan, policy, program, or arrangement. 
  10.9    No Constraint on Corporate Action  .  Nothing in this Plan shall be construed (i) to limit, impair or otherwise affect the Company s or any Affiliate s right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets or (ii) to limit the right or power of the Company or an Affiliate to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate. 
  10.10    Governing Law  .  The Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction. 
  10.11    Successors.    Any obligations of the Company or an Affiliate under the Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company or Affiliate, respectively, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase,  
    7 

merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company or Affiliate, as applicable. 

8 

</EX-10.66>

<EX-10.74>
 14
 met-20141231xex1074.htm
 EX-10.74

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.74 

Exhibit 10.74 
  AMENDMENT 1 TO THE 
  METROPOLITAN LIFE AUXILIARY 
  SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN 
  (Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2008) 
           1. 
    Section 2.4 of the Plan is hereby amended as follows: 
       2.4.     Commissioned Participant  means any Participant in this Plan who is compensated primarily by commissions, except that the term Commissioned Employee shall not include any Participant who is classified by the Company as a group commissioned employee.  
  2.    Subsection (c) of Section 2.6 of the Plan is hereby amended as follows: 
   (c)    For purposes of Sections 4.8 and 4.10, except as otherwise provided in Sections 4.8(a) and 4.10(a), the Default Commencement Date shall be the October 1st following the date of the Commissioned Participant s attainment of his or her sixtieth (60th) birthday.  
  3.    Subsection (a) of Section 4.10 of the Plan is hereby amended as follows: 
   (a)      Distribution of Vested Account Balance in Absence of Election  .  Unless a Commissioned Participant makes an election on or after January 1, 2009, in accordance with subsection (b) or in accordance with Section 4.8, a Commissioned Participant will be deemed to have elected to receive his or her vested account balance in the Default Mode of Payment, payable as of the Default Commencement Date, regardless of whether or not she or had previously  
    1 

experienced a Termination of Employment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to a Commissioned Participant who has attained the age of fifty-nine (59) or older prior to becoming eligible to participate in this Plan, such Participant s vested account balance under this Plan will be distributed in the Default Mode of Payment as of October 1st of the year which contains the fifth anniversary of the date on which s/he commenced participation in the Plan.  If a Commissioned Participant to whom this subsection (a) applies remains actively employed and Company contributions continue to be made to his or her account under this Plan in accordance with Section 4.1, then every five years after such Participant s initial distribution, such additional contributions which are made during the Plan Year in which distributions commence and which are thereafter credited to the Participant s account prior to his or her Termination of Employment shall be distributed in a single sum.   
  4.    Article 6 of the Plan is hereby amended as follows: 
   Article 6 -   Nontransferability of Participant's Interest 
  Except for any payments to a person other than the Participant, to the extent of an election by such person which is reflected in, or made in accordance with the provisions of a court order or decree which the Plan Administrator has determined constitutes a domestic relations order, as defined in Code        414(p)(1)(B), no Participant shall have any power or right to transfer, assign, mortgage, commute or otherwise encumber any of the benefits payable hereunder, nor shall such benefits be subject to seizure for the payment of any debts or judgments, or  
    2 

be transferable by operation of law in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency or otherwise.  
  5.    This amendment is effective January 1, 2008. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this amendment to be executed in its name and behalf this 9th day of December, 2008, by its officer thereunto duly authorized. 
    
  METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 
    
    By:  /s/ Margery Brittain                 

ATTEST: 
    
  /s/ Bonita Haskins         

3 

</EX-10.74>

<EX-10.85>
 15
 met-20141231xex1085.htm
 EX-10.85

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.85 

Exhibit 10.85 
  AMENDMENT NUMBER THREE TO THE 
  METLIFE LEADERSHIP DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 
  (As amended and restated effective with respect to salary and Cash Incentive Compensation January 1, 2005, and with respect to Stock Compensation April 15, 2005) 
    
  The MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan is hereby amended, effective January 1, 2010, as follows: 
    
           1. 
    Section 8 is hereby added to read as follows: 
       
     Matching Contribution  .  If a Participant makes contributions to SIP throughout a calendar year, the Participant s Matching Contribution Account shall be credited with a 4% Matching Contribution on any amount that would have been eligible for a contribution into SIP, under the terms of that plan without application of certain Tax Code limitations under Code sections 415 and 401(a)(17) and that was, in fact, deferred into this Plan.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Matching Contributions shall be credited in favor of a Participant during the suspension of such Participant s deferrals pursuant to Section 4.6 of this Plan. A Participant s Matching Contribution Account shall vest or be forfeited to the same extent, and on such date(s), that such Matching Contributions would have vested or been forfeited under the terms of SIP.  
           2. 
     Section 12.2 is hereby amended to read as follows: 
       
   The total amount of deferrals suspended or payment advanced shall not exceed the amount necessary to satisfy the financial consequences of the Unforeseeable Emergency plus any amounts necessary to pay any of the Participant s federal, state or local income taxes reasonably anticipated to result from such distribution and shall not exceed the total value of the Deferred Compensation Accounts under the Plan.  In determining the amount to be distributed from the Plan on a finding of an Unforeseeable Emergency, the Plan Administrator shall consider the availability of funds from other sources to satisfy the Unforeseeable Emergency including the availability of an in-service withdrawal from SIP, and shall offset those available amounts from the amount distributed from this Plan. No accommodation pursuant to this Section 12 shall be implemented in a manner or at a time when prohibited or punishable by any applicable Affiliate policy or law, including but not limited to laws regarding trading of securities on inside information and the exemptions therefrom.  
  3.  Section 20 is hereby amended to read as follows: 
    
   Qualified Domestic Relations Orders  .    The Plan Administrator will distribute, designate, or otherwise recognize the attachment of any portion of a Participant's Deferred Compensation Accounts in favor of the Participant's spouse, former spouse or dependents to the extent such action is mandated by the terms of a qualified domestic relations order as defined in Section 414(p) of the Code, and otherwise as determined by this Plan. In cases where the qualified domestic relations order does not state a specific time and form for distribution of the interest of the spouse, former spouse or dependents, then the interest of these third party beneficiaries will be paid directly to them in a lump sum as soon as administratively possible after the Plan Administrator reviews the court order and determines that it properly applies to the Plan.   
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Plan Administrator has caused this Amendment to be adopted this 11th day of December, 2009.   
    
  PLAN ADMINISTRATOR 
  /s/ Margery Brittain                
  Margery Brittain 
    
  ATTEST: 
  /s/ Bonita Haskins  _____________ 
    
    1 

</EX-10.85>

<EX-10.86>
 16
 met-20141231xex1086.htm
 EX-10.86

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.86 

Exhibit 10.86 
  AMENDMENT NUMBER FOUR TO THE 
  METLIFE LEADERSHIP DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 
  (As amended and restated effective with respect to salary and Cash Incentive Compensation January 1, 2005, and with respect to Stock Compensation April 15, 2005) 
    
  WHEREAS,   the MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ), was adopted to permit certain eligible employees voluntarily to defer the payment of certain types of compensation; 
    
  WHEREAS  , certain other nonqualified deferred compensation arrangements have been entered into with employees who are eligible to participate in the Plan, which arrangements either expressly or implicitly incorporate aspects of the Plan, and/or are otherwise administered, in whole or in part, in a manner consistent with the administration of the Plan; and to facilitate the administration of such other arrangements, it has been recommended that such arrangements be incorporated into the Plan; 
    
  WHEREAS  , pursuant to Section 19 of the Plan, the Plan Administrator has reserved the right to amend the Plan; 
    
  The Plan is hereby amended effective December 31, 2009, in the manner set forth below: 
    
  1.    Section 4 is amended to add a new Section 4.8 to read as follows, and to appropriately renumber all other sections thereof to reflect the addition of such Section: 
    
   4.8.  The Plan Administrator may permit other nonqualified deferred compensation arrangements, whether or not elective, between an Eligible Associate and any MetLife Company to be administered under and treated as part of the Plan.  The Plan Administrator shall establish a separate Alternative Compensation Account for an Eligible Associate who is party to a nonqualified deferred compensation arrangement treated as part of the Plan.   Unless otherwise provided in the corresponding non-qualified deferred compensation arrangement, herein, on Annex I or by the Plan Administrator in writing, the provisions of the Plan shall apply to any such Alternative Compensation Account, including without limitation, those provisions related to (i) the value of the Alternative Contribution Account (including the Investment Tracking of such Account), (ii) the timing, number and form of payments from such Account and (iii) the designation of any beneficiary(ies) to receive payment from such Account upon death of the Participant.   
    
  2.    Section 10 is amended to add a new Section 10.3.11 at the end of Section 10.3 thereof, to read as follows: 
    
   10.3.11.  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 10.3 to the contrary, payment in respect of any Alternative Compensation Account shall not be modified from the date payment would have been made under the corresponding nonqualified deferred compensation arrangement, as  
    1 

identified on Annex I or as otherwise specified in writing and submitted to the Plan Administrator by the Eligible Associate prior to January 1, 2009.     
    
  3.    Section 22 is amended to add new Sections 22.2 and 22.3 thereto, to read as follows, and to appropriately renumber all other sections thereof to reflect the addition of such Section: 
    
   22.2   Alternative Compensation Account  means a record-keeping account established for the benefit of an Eligible Associate which is credited with amounts deferred under the nonqualified deferred compensation arrangement, specified in Annex I, to which such Account relates.  
    
   22.3   Annex I  means the schedule established by the Plan Administrator, as may be amended by the Plan Administrator at any time and from time to time, which describes the nonqualified deferred compensation arrangement that is to be administered as part of the Plan.  Annex I, is expressly incorporated into the Plan reference and made a part hereof.  
    
  4.    Section 22.7,  Deferred Compensation Account , is amended to add a second sentence that will read as follows: 
    
   To the extent the context so requires, the term Deferred Compensation Account, as applied to any Participant, shall also include any Alternative Compensation Account established for the benefit of such Participant.  
    
  5.    Section 22.23,  Participant , is amended to add a second sentence that will read as follows: 
    
   To the extent that the context so requires, the term Participant shall also include any Eligible Associate for whose benefit an Alternative Compensation Account has been established under the Plan.  
    
  6.    The Plan is further amended to add at the end thereof, a new Annex I, as is attached hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof. 
       
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Plan Administrator has caused this Amendment to be adopted this 11th day of December, 2009.   
    
  PLAN ADMINISTRATOR 
  /s/ Margery Brittain  __________________________________________ 
  Margery Brittain 
  ATTEST: 
  /s/ Bonita Haskins  __________________________ 
    2 

</EX-10.86>

<EX-10.88>
 17
 met-20141231xex1088.htm
 EX-10.88

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.88 

Exhibit 10.88 
    
  AMENDMENT NUMBER NINE TO THE  
  METLIFE LEADERSHIP DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 
  (As amended and restated effective with respect to salary and Cash Incentive Compensation January 1, 2005 and with respect to Stock Compensation, April 15, 2005) 
    
  The MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan ( the Plan )  is hereby amended, effective January 1, 2015, as follows: 
    
           1. 
     Section 22.11 containing the definition of  Eligible Associate  is amended to delete subsection (d) added by Amendment Number Five to the Plan. 

3. 
    Section 22.32  Stock Compensation  is hereby amended to read as follows: 
       
   22.32  Stock Compensation  shall mean compensation payable in the form of shares of MetLife, Inc. Stock including awards in that form under the Long Term Performance Compensation Plan, the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, the MetLife, Inc. 2015 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan and any successor plans thereto.  
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, MetLife, Inc. has caused this amendment to be executed on the   30th   day of   December  , 2014, by the duly authorized individual below. 
    
  MetLife, Inc. 
                       
  By   _____/s/__Mark J. Davis_______ 
  Mark J. Davis, Plan Administrator 
    
  Date   ___12-30-2014______________ 
    
  Witnessed by: 
    
  __/s/__Candice Martin______________ 

</EX-10.88>

<EX-10.102>
 18
 met-20141231xex10102.htm
 EX-10.102

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.102 

Exhibit 10.102 
  AMENDMENT NUMBER FOUR TO THE 
  METLIFE AUXILIARY PENSION PLAN 
  (As amended and restated effective January 1, 2008) 
  The MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan is hereby amended, effective January 1, 2010, as follows: 
  1.      Part I Article 2, Section 2.2. is hereby deleted in its entirety.  All references to Section 2.2 shall be changed to the past tense and the word  former  shall be inserted before the words  Section 2.2  where referenced in all other Sections and subsections of Part I of the Plan.  As of January 1, 2010, no additional Participants can qualify under Section 2.2 of the Plan. 
  2.    Part I, Article 4, Section 4.1 shall have a new subsection (e) added to read as follows: 
   (e)    PRA/PLS Benefit  .  PRA/PLS Benefit  means a benefit that is either a Personal Retirement Account benefit or a Performance Pension Account benefit under the Retirement Plan.  Likewise, any benefit referred to as a  non PRA/PLS Benefit  or  not a PRA/PLS Benefit  refers to benefits under the Retirement Plan that are not PRA/PLS Benefits.  
    
  3.    Part I, Article 4, Section 4.6, the first paragraph of the Section is hereby amended to read as follows: 
   4.6    Only for an individual who was eligible under former Section 2.2 as of December 31, 2009, Final Average Compensation used to determine the largest amount that would have been payable under Article 4.2(a) above, will be based on the following rules, notwithstanding the actual provisions of the Retirement Plan.  
  4.    Part I, Article 4, Section 4.6 is hereby amended by adding a new subsection (c) immediately after (b) and before the final paragraph: 
   (c)  For eligible Participants who are not Commissioned Employees and who separate from service on or after January 1, 2010 the following provisions apply in lieu of (a) and (b) above: 
  (i)   Final Average Compensation will be calculated at separation from service in the same manner that Final Average Compensation is calculated under the Retirement Plan (hereinafter  Calculation #1 ).   
  (ii)  Participants who have a vested accrued benefit under the Plan on December 31, 2009 will also have Final Average Compensation calculated under the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) above both as of December 31, 2009 (hereinafter  Calculation #2 ) and at the time of separation from service (hereinafter  Calculation #3 ).   
  All Participants will have Calculation #1 used to determine their Final Average Compensation.  Participants who have a vested accrued benefit under the Plan on December 31, 2009 will not have Calculation #1 apply when Calculation #1 produces a lower accrued benefit than the accrued benefit on December 31, 2009 produced by using Calculation #2.  In such case, the Participant s accrued benefit will be the lesser of the accrued benefit determined as of December 31, 2009 using the Final Average Compensation under  
    1 

Calculation #2 as of December 31, 2009 or the accrued benefit using the Final Average Compensation under Calculation #3 at separation from service.  
  5.    Part I, Article 4A, Section 4A.6 is hereby amended to read as follows: 
   4A.6    Valuation. 
  The actuarial, interest and any other assumptions or factors needed to calculate the value of an Alternative Benefit shall be determined and applied in the sole discretion of the Plan Administrator.  In making such determinations the Plan Administrator shall take under advisement the terms of the Plan s Election and Distribution Procedures as they existed at the time a Participant who has elected an Alternative Benefit separates from service.  
           6. 
    Part I, Article 4A, Section 4A.7 is hereby amended to read as follows: 
      4A.7.    Interest on Deferred Installments 
  Benefit Eligible Participants who elect deferred installment payments under the terms of this Article 4A, shall receive interest from the date they separate from service to the date that the installment payments commence.  Interest will be calculated based on the entire amount that the Participant has elected to receive as deferred installments under Article 4A.  Interest will be credited using the SIP Rate in effect on the Participant s separation date and will be compounded annually from the date of separation from service to the date payments commence.  The interest accrued prior to payment commencement will be added to the accrued Plan benefit to produce a total benefit amount.  This total benefit amount will be credited with the SIP Rate for the duration of the payment(s) and divided by the number of installment payments due under the Participant s election to produce uniform payments under the Plan.  This interest will be part of the Participant s 409A Benefit and will be paid in accordance with 409A.  
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Amendment to be adopted in its name and behalf this 16th day of December, 2009, by its officer thereunto duly authorized.   
  METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 
  By:      /s/ Margery Brittain  ________________________________ 
  Margery Brittain, Plan Administrator 
    
  ATTEST: 
  /s/ Bonita Haskins  __________________________ 
    2 

</EX-10.102>

<EX-10.111>
 19
 met-20141231xex10111.htm
 EX-10.111

MET-2014.12.31-EX10.111 

Exhibit 10.111 
    
  AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE 
  TO THE 
  METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS 
  (Amended and Restated Effective April 1, 2014) 

The METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the  Plan ) is hereby amended, effective January 1, 2015, as follows: 
    
           1. 
    Section 1.4.09(c)(1) of the Plan is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:  an officer of the Company, MetLife Group, Inc., or Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company.  
       
           2. 
    Section 4.2 of the Plan is hereby amended, effective January 1, 2015, by adding  or the MetLife, Inc. 2015 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan  after  the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan  each time it appears therein. 
       
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this amendment to be executed on this   30   th      day of   December  , 2014 by the duly authorized individual below. 

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 

By:   _/s/ Mark J. Davis____________________ 
  Mark J. Davis, Plan Administrator 

Witness:   __/s/ Sharon R. Bibby_____________ 

</EX-10.111>

<EX-12.1>
 20
 met-xexhibit121ratioofearn.htm
 EX-12.1

MET -- Exhibit 12.1 (Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges)2014 

Exhibit 12.1 
    
  MetLife, Inc. 
  Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

__________________________________________ 
            (2) 
    For the year ended December 31, 2011, preferred stock dividends includes the redemption premium of $211 million associated with the convertible preferred stock repurchased and canceled in March 2011. 
       1 

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 21
 met-20141231ex211metlifesu.htm
 EX-21.1

MET-2014.12.31.EX21.1 MetLife Subsidiary List as of December 31_2014 

Exhibit 21.1 
    
  METLIFE, INC. 
  As of December 31, 2014 

Wholly-Owned Active Subsidiaries   1   

______________ 
    
   1    Does not include real estate joint ventures and partnerships of which MetLife, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries is an investment partner. 

32.    BETA PROPERTIES, INC. (DE) 
      33.    BORDERLAND INVESTMENT LIMITED (DE) 
      34.    BOULEVARD RESIDENTIAL, LLC (DE) 
      35.    CC HOLDCO MANAGER, LLC (DE) 
      36.    CHESTNUT FLATS WIND, LLC (DE) 
      37.    CITYPOINT HOLDINGS II LIMITED (UK) 
      38.    CLOSED JOINT STOCK COMPANY METLIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (RUSSIA) 
      39.    COMMUNICATION ONE KABUSHIKI KAISHA (JAPAN) 
      40.    COMPANIA INVERSORA METLIFE S.A. (ARGENTINA) 
      41.    CONVENT STATION EURO INVESTMENTS FOUR COMPANY (UK) 
      42.    CORPORATE REAL ESTATE HOLDINGS, LLC (DE) 
      43.    CORRIGAN TLP LLC (DE) 
      44.    COVA LIFE MANAGEMENT COMPANY (DE) 
      45.    CRB CO., INC. (MA) 
      46.    DELAWARE AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (DE) 
      47.    DELTA PROPERTIES JAPAN, INC. (DE) 
      48.    ECONOMY FIRE   CASUALTY COMPANY (IL) 
      49.    ECONOMY PREFERRED INSURANCE COMPANY (IL) 
      50.    ECONOMY PREMIER ASSURANCE COMPANY (IL) 
      51.    EL CONQUISTADOR MAH II LLC (DE) 
      52.    ENTERPRISE GENERAL INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. (DE) 
      53.    ENTRECAP REAL ESTATE II LLC (DE) 
      54.    EPSILON PROPERTIES JAPAN, INC. (DE) 
      55.    EURO CL INVESTMENTS, LLC (DE) 
      56.    EURO TI INVESTMENTS LLC (DE) 
      57.    EURO TL INVESTMENTS LLC (DE) 
      58.    EXCELENCIA OPERATIVA Y TECNOLOGICA, S.A de C.V. (MEXICO) 
      59.    FEDERAL FLOOD CERTIFICATION LLC (TX) 
      60.    FIRST HUNGARIAN- AMERICAN INSURANCE AGENCY LIMITED (HUNGARY) 
      61.    FIRST METLIFE INVESTORS INSURANCE COMPANY (NY) 
      62.    FUNDACION METLIFE MEXICO, A.C. (MEXICO) 
      63.    GALIC HOLDINGS LLC (DE) 
      64.    GENERAL AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (MO) 
      65.    GLOBALMKT S.A. (URUGUAY) 
      66.    GLOBAL PROPERTIES, INC. (DE) 
      67.    GREATER SANDHILL I, LLC (DE) 
      68.    GREENWICH STREET CAPITAL OFFSHORE FUND, LTD (VIRGIN ISLANDS) 
      69.    GREENWICH STREET INVESTMENTS, L.L.C. (DE) 
      70.    GREENWICH STREET INVESTMENTS, L.P. (DE) 
      71.    HASKELL EAST VILLAGE, LLC (DE) 
      72.    HEADLAND PROPERTIES ASSOCIATES (CA) 
      73.    HEADLAND-PACIFIC PALISADES, LLC (CA) 
      74.    HOUSING FUND MANAGER, LLC (DE) 
      75.    HPZ ASSETS LLC (DE) 

122.    METLIFE BIZTOSITO ZRT. (HUNGARY) 
      123.    METLIFE CABO HILTON MEMBER, LLC (DE) 
      124.    METLIFE CAMINO RAMON MEMBER, LLC (DE) 
      125.    METLIFE CANADA SOLAR ULC (CANADA) 
      126.    METLIFE CANADIAN PROPERTY VENTURES LLC (NY) 
      127.    METLIFE CAPITAL CREDIT L.P. (DE) 
      128.    METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST IV (DE) 
      129.    METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST X (DE) 
      130.    METLIFE CAPITAL, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (DE) 
      131.    METLIFE CB W/A, LLC (DE) 
      132.    METLIFE CC MEMBER, LLC (DE) 
      133.    MELIFE CHILE ACQUISITION CO. S.A. (CHILE) 
      134.    METLIFE CHILE ADMINISTRADORA DE MUTUOS HIPOTECARIOS S.A. (CHILE) 
      135.    METLIFE CHILE INVERSIONES LIMITADA (CHILE) 
      136.    METLIFE CHILE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (CHILE) 
      137.    METLIFE CHILE SEGUROS GENERALES S.A. (CHILE) 
      138.    METLIFE COLOMBIA SEGUROS  de VIDA S.A. (COLOMBIA) 
      139.    METLIFE CONSUMER SERVICES, INC. (DE) 
      140.    METLIFE CORE PROPERTY FUND GP, LLC (DE) 
      141.    METLIFE CREDIT CORP.(DE)  
      142.    METLIFE DIRECT CO.,LTD.(JAPAN) 
      143.    METLIFE EMEKLILIK DE HAYAT A.S. (TURKEY) 
      144.    METLIFE EU HOLDING COMPANY LIMITED (IRELAND) 
      145.    METLIFE EUROPE INSURANCE LIMITED (IRELAND) 
      146.    METLIFE EUROPE LIMITED (IRELAND) 
      147.    METLIFE EUROPE SERVICES LIMITED (IRELAND) 
      148.    METLIFE EUROPEAN HOLDINGS, LLC. (DE) 
      149.    METLIFE EXCHANGE TRUST I (DE) 
      150.    METLIFE FM HOTEL MEMBER, LLC (DE) 
      151.    METLIFE FUNDING, INC. (DE) 
      152.    METLIFE GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 
      153.    METLIFE GLOBAL HOLDING COMPANY I GmbH (SWISS I) (SWITZERLAND) 
      154.    METLIFE GLOBAL HOLDING COMPANY II GmbH (SWISS II) (SWITZERLAND) 
      155.    METLIFE GLOBAL HOLDINGS CORPORATION S.A. De C.V.(MEXICO) 
      156.    METLIFE GLOBAL OPERATIONS SUPPORT CENTER PRIVATE LIMITED(INDIA) 
      157.    METLIFE GLOBAL, INC. (DE) 
      158.    METLIFE GLOBAL BENEFITS, LTD. (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
      159.    METLIFE GREENSTONE SOUTHEAST VENTURES, LLC (DE) 
      160.    METLIFE GROUP, INC. (NY) 
      161.    METLIFE HEALTH PLANS, INC. (DE) 
      162.    METLIFE HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 
      163.    METLIFE HOLDINGS (CYPRUS) LIMITED (CYPRUS) 
      164.    METLIFE HOME LOANS LLC (DE) 
      165.    METLIFE INNOVATION CENTRE PTE. LTD. (SINGAPORE) 
      166.    METLIFE INSURANCE AND INVESTMENT TRUST (AUSTRALIA) 
      167.    METLIFE INSURANCE COMPANY USA (DE) 

168.    METLIFE INSURANCE K.K. (JAPAN) 
      169.    METLIFE INSURANCE LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 
      170.    METLIFE INSURANCE LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
      171.    METLIFE INTERNATIONAL HF PARTNERS, LP (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
      172.    METLIFE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 
      173.    METLIFE INTERNATIONAL LIMITED, LLC (DE) 
      174.    METLIFE INTERNATIONAL PE FUND I, LP (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
      175.    METLIFE INTERNATIONAL PE FUND II, LP (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
      176.    METLIFE INVESTMENTS ASIA LIMITED (HONG KONG) 
      177.    METLIFE INVESTMENTS LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
      178.    METLIFE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT, LLC (DE) 
      179.    METLIFE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
      180.    METLIFE INVESTMENTS PTY LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 
      181.    METLIFE INVESTORS DISTRIBUTION COMPANY (MO) 
      182.    METLIFE INVESTORS GROUP, LLC (DE) 
      183.    METLIFE IRELAND HOLDINGS ONE LIMITED (IRELAND) 
      184.    METLIFE IRELAND TREASURY LIMITED (IRELAND) 
      185.    METLIFE LATIN AMERICA ASESORIAS E INVERSIONES LIMITADA (CHILE) 
      186.    METLIFE LHH MEMBER, LLC (DE) 
      187.    METLIFE LIFE INSURANCE S.A. (GREECE) 
      188.    METLIFE LIMITED (HONG KONG) 
      189.    METLIFE LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
      190.    METLIFE LOAN ASSET MANAGEMENT LLC (DE) 
      191.    METLIFE MALL VENTURES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (DE) 
      192.    METLIFE MAS, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
      193.    METLIFE MEXICO CARES, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
      194.    METLIFE MEXICO S.A. (MEXICO)  
      195.    METLIFE MEXICO SERVICIOS, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
      196.    METLIFE OFC MEMBER, LLC (DE) 
      197.    METLIFE OBS MEMBER, LLC (DE) 
      198.    METLIFE PENSIONES MEXICO S.A. (MEXICO) 
      199.    METLIFE PENSION TRUSTEES LIMITED (UK) 
      200.    METLIFE PLANOS ODONTOLOGICOS LTDA. (BRAZIL) 
      201.    METLIFE POJISTOVNA A.S.  (CZECH REPUBLIC) 
      202.    METLIFE POWSZECHNE TOWARTZYSTWO EMERYTALNE S.A. (POLAND) 
      203.    METLIFE PRIVATE EQUITY HOLDINGS, LLC (DE) 
      204.    METLIFE PROPERTIES VENTURES, LLC (DE) 
      205.    METLIFE PROPERTY VENTURES CANADA ULC (CANADA) 
      206.    METLIFE RC SF MEMBER, LLC (DE) 
      207.    METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF BERMUDA LTD. (BERMUDA) 
      208.    METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF CHARLESTON (SC) 
      209.    METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF DELAWARE (DE) 
      210.    METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (SC) 
      211.    METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF VERMONT (VT) 
      212.    METLIFE RENEWABLES HOLDING, LLC (DE) 
      213.    METLIFE RETIREMENT SERVICES LLC (NJ) 

214.    METLIFE SAENGMYOUNG INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. (SOUTH KOREA)- (also known as MetLife Insurance Company of Korea Limited) 
      215.    METLIFE SECURITIES, INC. (DE)  
      216.    METLIFE SEGUROS DE RETIRO S.A. (ARGENTINA) 
      217.    METLIFE SEGUROS S.A. (URUGUAY) 
      218.    METLIFE SEGUROS S.A. (ARGENTINA) 
      219.    METLIFE SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS, LLC (DE) 
      220.    METLIFE SERVICES EAST PRIVATE LIMITED (INDIA) 
      221.    METLIFE SERVICES EEIG (IRELAND) 
      222.    METLIFE SERVICES EOOD (BULGARIA) 
      223.    METLIFE SERVICES, SOCIEDAD LIMITADA (SPAIN) 
      224.    METLIFE SERVICES SP Z.O.O (POLAND) 
      225.    METLIFE SERVICIOS S.A. (ARGENTINA) 
      226.    METLIFE SLOVAKIA S.R.O.(SLOVAKIA) 
      227.    METLIFE SOLUTIONS PTE. LTD. (SINGAPORE) 
      228.    METLIFE SOLUTIONS S.A.S. (FRANCE) 
      229.    METLIFE STANDBY I, LLC (DE) 
      230.    METLIFE THR INVESTOR, LLC (DE) 
      231.    METLIFE TOWARZYSTWO FUNDUSZY INWESTYCYJNYCH S.A. (POLAND) 
      232.    METLIFE TOWARZYSTWO UBEZPIECZEN NA ZYCIE I REASEKURACJI S.A. (POLAND) 
      233.    METLIFE TOWER RESOURCES GROUP, INC. (DE) 
      234.    METLIFE USA ASSIGNMENT COMPANY (CT 
      235.    METLIFE WORLDWIDE HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 
      236.    METPARK FUNDING, INC. (DE) 
      237.    METROPOLITAN CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 
      238.    METROPOLITAN CONNECTICUT PROPERTIES VENTURES, LLC (DE) 
      239.    METROPOLITAN DIRECT PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 
      240.    METROPOLITAN GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY (RI)  
      241.    METROPOLITAN GLOBAL MANAGEMENT, LLC. (DE/ IRELAND) 
      242.    METROPOLITAN GROUP PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI)   
      243.    METROPOLITAN LIFE ASIGURARI S.A. (ROMANIA) 
      244.    METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (NY) 
      245.    METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF HONG KONG LIMITED (HONG KONG) 
      246.    METROPOLITAN LIFE SEGUROS E PREVID NCIA PRIVADA S.A. (BRAZIL) 
      247.    METROPOLITAN LIFE SOCIETATE de ADMINISTRARE a UNUI FOND de PENSII ADMINISTRAT PRIVAT S.A. (ROMANIA) 
      248.    METROPOLITAN LIFE TRAINING   CONSULTING S.R.L. (ROMANIA) 
      249.    METROPOLITAN LLOYDS, INC. (TX) 
      250.    METROPOLITAN PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI)  
      251.    METROPOLITAN TOWER LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (DE)            
      252.    METROPOLITAN TOWER REALTY COMPANY, INC. (DE) 
      253.    MEX DF PROPERTIES, LLC (DE) 
      254.    MIDTOWN HEIGHTS, LLC (DE) 
      255.    MISSOURI REINSURANCE, INC. (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
      256.    ML-AI METLIFE MEMBER 1, LLC (DE) 
      257.    ML-AI METLIFE MEMBER 2, LLC (DE) 
      258.    MLA COMERCIAL, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 

METLIFE, INC. 
  As of December 31, 2014 
    
  Companies of which MetLife, Inc. directly or indirectly has actual ownership (for its own account) of 10% through 99% of the total     outstanding voting stock   2   

______________ 
    
   2    Does not include real estate joint ventures and partnerships of which MetLife, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries is an investment partner. 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 22
 met-xexhibit231dtconsentin.htm
 EX-23.1

MET -- Exhibit 23.1 (D&T Consent in Form 10-K)2014 

Exhibit 23.1 
    
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-192366, 333-192366-01, 333-192366-02, 333-192366-03, 333-192366-04 and 333-192366-05 on Form S-3 and 333-198145, 333-198143, 333-198141, 333-170879, 333-162927, 333-162926, 333-148024, 333-139384, 333-139383, 333-139382, 333-139380, 333-121344, 333-121343, 333-121342, 333-102306, 333-101291, 333-59134 and 333-37108 on Form S-8 of our report on the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ), dated February 26, 2015 and our report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting dated February 26, 2015, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2014. 

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
    
  New York, New York  
  February 26, 2015 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 23
 met-12312014xex311.htm
 EX-31.1

MET-12.31.2014-EX31.1 

Exhibit 31.1  
  CERTIFICATIONS  
  I, Steven A. Kandarian, certify that:  
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of MetLife, Inc.;  
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  
  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  
  4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  
           a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
     5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  
           a) 
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
       
  Date: February 26, 2015  
                   
    /s/ Steven A. Kandarian 
        
    Steven A. Kandarian 
        
    Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 24
 met-12312014xex312.htm
 EX-31.2

MET-12.31.2014-EX31.2 

Exhibit 31.2  
  CERTIFICATIONS  
  I, John C. R. Hele, certify that:  
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of MetLife, Inc.;  
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  
  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  
  4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  
           a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
     5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  
           a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  
     Date: February 26, 2015  
                   
    /s/ John C. R. Hele 
        
    John C. R. Hele 
        
    Executive Vice President and 
        
    Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 25
 met-12312014xex321.htm
 EX-32.1

MET-12.31.2014-EX32.1 

Exhibit 32.1  
  SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION  
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED  
  STATES CODE  
  I, Steven A. Kandarian, certify that (i) MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 (the  Form 10-K ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and (ii) the information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of MetLife, Inc.  
  Date: February 26, 2015  
                   
    /s/ Steven A. Kandarian 
        
    Steven A. Kandarian 
        
    Chairman of the Board, President and  
  Chief Executive Officer 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to MetLife, Inc. and will be retained by MetLife, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 26
 met-12312014xex322.htm
 EX-32.2

MET-12.31.2014-EX32.2 

Exhibit 32.2  
  SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION  
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED  
  STATES CODE  
  I, John C. R. Hele, certify that (i) MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 (the  Form 10-K ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and (ii) the information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of MetLife, Inc.  
  Date: February 26, 2015  
                   
    /s/ John C. R. Hele 
        
    John C. R. Hele 
        
    Executive Vice President and  Chief Financial Officer 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to MetLife, Inc. and will be retained by MetLife, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 27
 met-20141231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 28
 met-20141231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 29
 met-20141231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 30
 met-20141231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 31
 met-20141231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 32
 met-20141231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

COVER
 35
 filename35.htm

filename35 

Miriam B. Fine 
  Assistant General Counsel 
  Law Department 
  Tel 212 578-0423    Fax 212 251-1653 
    
  February 26, 2015 

VIA EDGAR 
  Securities and Exchange Commission 
  100 F Street, N.E. 
  Washington D.C. 20549 
    
  Dear Sir or Madam: 
    
  On behalf of MetLife, Inc. (the  Company ), transmitted herewith is the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 (the  Form 10-K ). 
    
  The financial statements contained in the Form 10-K do not reflect any change from the preceding year in any accounting principles or practices or in the method of applying any such principles or practices.  

Sincerely, 
    
  /s/ Miriam B. Fine 
           
  Miriam B. Fine 
    
  Attachment 

