<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100224_10-K_edgar_data_764180_0001193125-10-039027_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>9828300</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>677952</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>259055</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2170074</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>3096897</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3098670</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>130</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>21</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-10-039027.hdr.sgml : 20100224
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100224172405
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-10-039027
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		22
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100224
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100224

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ALTRIA GROUP, INC.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000764180
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CIGARETTES [2111]
		IRS NUMBER:				133260245
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			VA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08940
		FILM NUMBER:		10630673

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6601 WEST BROAD STREET
		CITY:			RICHMOND
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			23230
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(804) 274-2200

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6601 WEST BROAD STREET
		CITY:			RICHMOND
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			23230

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ALTRIA GROUP INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20030127

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FQanUe2vL4KqEXX+mQG0XVEUcTMj1vCRo0hJVF+EBK8hh9QYV6Dm66twUTMv/x6l
 KQTrt0S2S+Gqq/EARORuKA==

 0001193125-10-039027.txt : 20100224

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

     UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549              FORM 10-K
         
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009       OR          
    For the transition period from
                         to
                               Commission File Number 1-8940              ALTRIA
GROUP, INC.        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    
     804-274-2200    
   (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:         

Title of each
class                        
     
    Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
  Common Stock, $0.33   1   /  3   par value   
     
  New York Stock Exchange       Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act.    Yes             No               Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes             No               Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes             No               Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate
Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
submit and post such files).    Yes             No               Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.               Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated
filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer           
        
  Accelerated filer           
     
    Non-accelerated filer              (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)   
      
  Smaller reporting company                Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Act).    Yes             No               As
of June 30, 2009, the aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $34 billion based on the closing sale price of the common stock as reported on the New York Stock
Exchange.         
     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE    

Document     
      
     Parts Into Which Incorporated      
 
  Portions of the registrant s annual report to shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the  2009 Annual Report ).  
      
           Parts I, II, and IV           
 
  Portions of the registrant s definitive proxy statement for use in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 20, 2010, to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission ( SEC ) on or about April 9, 2010.  
      
           Part III     

Table of Contents  

     TABLE OF CONTENTS         

Page   

PART I   

Item 1.   
      
   Business   
      
  1   

Item 1A.   
      
   Risk Factors   
      
  11   

Item 1B.   
      
   Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  15   

Item 2.   
      
   Properties   
      
  16   

Item 3.   
      
   Legal Proceedings   
      
  16   

Item 4.   
      
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  49   

PART II   

Item 5.   
      
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
  50   

Item 6.   
      
   Selected Financial Data   
      
  50   

Item 7.   
      
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  51   

Item 7A.   
      
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
      
  51   

Item 8.   
      
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  51   

Item 9.   
      
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  51   

Item 9A.   
      
   Controls and Procedures   
      
  51   

Item 9B.   
      
   Other Information   
      
  51   

PART III   

Item 10.   
      
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
      
  52   

Item 11.   
      
   Executive Compensation   
      
  53   

Item 12.   
      
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
      
  53   

Item 13.   
      
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
      
  53   

Item 14.   
      
   Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
      
  53   

PART IV   

Item 15.   
      
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  54   

Signatures    

61   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement
Schedule    
      
  S-1   

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts    
      
  S-2    

Table of Contents  

    PART I          

Item 1.   
      Business.                     (a) General Development of Business               General             Altria Group, Inc. is a holding company incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1985. At December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. s
wholly-owned subsidiaries included Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and certain smokeless products in the United States; UST LLC ( UST ), which through its subsidiaries
is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless products and wine; and John Middleton Co. ( Middleton ), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco. Philip Morris Capital Corporation
( PMCC ), another wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc., maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct finance leases. In addition, Altria Group, Inc. held a 27.3% economic and voting interest in SABMiller plc
( SABMiller ) at December 31, 2009.            As
discussed in Note 3.  Acquisitions  to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2009 Annual Report, on January 6, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding
common stock of UST, whose direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries include U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC ( USSTC ) and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd. ( Ste. Michelle ). As a result of the acquisition, UST has become
an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc. The transaction was valued at approximately $11.7 billion, which represented a purchase price of $10.4 billion and included the assumption of approximately $1.3 billion of debt, which
together with acquisition-related costs and payments of approximately $0.6 billion (consisting primarily of structuring and arrangement fees, the funding of UST s non-qualified pension plans, investment banking fees and the early retirement of
UST s revolving credit facility), represent a total cash outlay of approximately $11 billion. The acquisition was financed with a combination of available cash of $6.7 billion (representing the net proceeds from the issuances of senior
unsecured long-term notes in November and December 2008 as described in Note 11.  Long-Term Debt  to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2009 Annual Report) and
borrowings of the entire available amount of $4.3 billion under a 364-day term bridge loan facility, which was prepaid and terminated upon the issuance of $4.2 billion of senior unsecured long-term notes in February 2009 (see Note 10.  Short-Term
Borrowings and Borrowing Arrangements  to such financial statements).            On March 28, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its interest in Philip Morris International Inc. ( PMI ) to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. On March 30,
2007, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft Foods Inc. ( Kraft ) on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. For a further discussion of the PMI and Kraft spin-offs,
see Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation  to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2009 Annual Report.            On December 11, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all of the
outstanding stock of Middleton for $2.9 billion in cash. The acquisition was financed with available cash. For additional discussion on the Middleton acquisition, see Note 3.  Acquisitions  to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial
statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2009 Annual Report.            PM USA is the largest cigarette company in the United States.  Marlboro , the principal cigarette brand of this company, has been the largest-selling cigarette brand in the United States since 1972. USSTC is
the leading producer and marketer of moist smokeless tobacco products, including the premium brands,  Copenhagen  and  Skoal,  and the value brands,  Red Seal  and  Husky.  Middleton is a
        
   -1-   

Table of Contents  

manufacturer of machine-made large cigars.  Black   Mild , the principal cigar brand of Middleton, is the second largest selling machine-made large cigar in the United States. Ste.
Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarily  Chateau Ste. Michelle  and  Columbia Crest , and owns wineries in or distributes wines from several other wine regions.            In June 2009, the President signed into law the Family Smoking Prevention
and Tobacco Control Act ( FSPTCA ), which provides the United States Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) with broad authority to regulate the design, manufacture, packaging, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of
cigarettes, cigarette tobacco and smokeless tobacco products and disclosures of related information. The FSPTCA also grants the FDA authority to extend the application of the FSPTCA, by regulation, to other tobacco products, including cigars. PM USA
and a subsidiary of USSTC are subject to quarterly user fees as a result of this legislation.             Dividends and Share Repurchases:             Following the Kraft spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its dividend so that holders of both Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft shares would receive initially, in the aggregate, the same dividends paid by Altria Group,
Inc. prior to the Kraft spin-off. Similarly, following the PMI spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its dividend so that holders of both Altria Group, Inc. and PMI shares would receive initially, in the aggregate, the same dividends paid by Altria
Group, Inc. prior to the PMI spin-off.            During the third
quarter of 2009, Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors approved a 6.3% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.34 per common share. In January 2010, Altria Group, Inc. changed its dividend payout ratio target from approximately 75% to
approximately 80% of adjusted diluted EPS beginning with its next declared dividend. Consistent with this payout ratio target change, on February 24, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors approved a 2.9% increase in the quarterly
dividend to $0.35 per common share. The present annualized dividend rate is $1.40 per Altria Group, Inc. common share. Future dividend payments remain subject to the discretion of Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors.            In September 2009, Altria Group, Inc. suspended indefinitely its $4.0
billion (2008 to 2010) share repurchase program in order to preserve financial flexibility and focus on interest expense reduction. Altria Group, Inc. s share repurchase program is at the discretion of the Board of Directors. No shares were
repurchased during 2009 under this program. During 2008, Altria Group, Inc. repurchased 53.5 million shares of its common stock at an aggregate cost of approximately $1.2 billion, or an average price of $21.81 per share.             Source of Funds Dividends             Because Altria Group, Inc. is a holding company, its principal sources of
funds are from the payment of dividends and repayment of debt from its subsidiaries. At December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. s principal wholly-owned subsidiaries were not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to
pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their common stock.              (b) Financial Information About Segments              Beginning with the first quarter of 2009, Altria Group, Inc. revised its reportable segments to reflect the change in the way in which Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker reviews the business
as a result of the acquisition of UST. At December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. s reportable segments were: cigarettes, smokeless products, cigars, wine and financial services. Net revenues and operating companies income (together with
reconciliation to earnings from continuing operations before income taxes) attributable to each such segment for each of the last three years are set forth in Note 17.  Segment Reporting  to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial
statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2009 Annual Report.         
   -2-   

Table of Contents  

   Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker reviews operating companies income to
evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Operating companies income for the segments excludes general corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles. Interest and other debt expense, net (consumer products), and provision for income
taxes are centrally managed at the corporate level and, accordingly, such items are not presented by segment since they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability reviewed by Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker. The
accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements and are incorporated herein by reference to the 2009
Annual Report.            The relative percentages of operating
companies income attributable to each reportable segment were as follows:         
          Changes in the relative percentages above reflect the following:         

In January 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST, the results of which are reflected in the smokeless products and wine segments.      

In December 2007, Altria Group, Inc. acquired Middleton, the results of which are reflected in the cigars segment.            

In 2008, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $100 million, primarily as a result of credit rating downgrades of certain leases and financial market
conditions. Financial services results during 2007 included pre-tax gains of $214 million on the sale of its ownership interests and bankruptcy claims in certain leveraged lease investments in aircraft, which represented a partial recovery, in cash,
of amounts that had been previously written down.                 (c) Narrative Description of Business               Tobacco Space             PM USA is engaged in the
manufacture and sale of cigarettes and certain smokeless products in the United States.            USSTC and other subsidiaries of UST are engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless products to customers, substantially all of whom are located in the United States.            Middleton is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large
cigars and pipe tobacco to customers, substantially all of whom are located in the United States.            Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco operating companies believe that a number of adult tobacco consumers switch between tobacco categories and use
different kinds of tobacco products.            During the second
quarter of 2009, Altria Group, Inc. created two new service organizations. Altria Sales   Distribution Inc. serves as agent for Altria Group, Inc. s three tobacco operating companies in
        
   -3-   

Table of Contents  

their interactions with tobacco wholesalers and retailers. Altria Consumer Engagement Services Inc. executes one-to-one adult consumer programs for the three tobacco operating companies.
            Cigarettes             PM USA is the largest tobacco company in the United States, with total
cigarette shipments in the United States of 148.7 billion units in 2009, a decrease of 12.2% from 2008.            PM USA s major premium brands are  Marlboro, Virginia Slims  and  Parliament . Its principal discount brand is  Basic . All of its
brands are marketed to take into account differing preferences of adult smokers.  Marlboro  is the largest-selling cigarette brand in the United States, with shipments of 126.5 billion units in 2009 (down 10.6% from 2008).            In the premium segment, PM USA s 2009 shipment volume decreased 11.8%
from 2008, and its shipment volume in the discount segment decreased 17.4%. Shipments of premium cigarettes accounted for 93.0% of PM USA s total 2009 volume, up from 92.6% in 2008.            The following table summarizes cigarettes segment volume performance by brand, which includes units sold, as well as
promotional units, but excludes Puerto Rico, U.S. Territories, Overseas Military, Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and 2008 contract manufacturing for PMI (terminated in the fourth quarter of 2008):         
          Effective in the first quarter of 2009, cigarettes segment retail share results are based on data from the Information Resources, Inc. ( IRI )/Capstone Integrated Retail Panel, which is a customized
retail tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share performance in retail stores selling cigarettes. The panel was not designed to capture sales through other channels, including the Internet and direct mail. This service
was developed to provide a comprehensive measure of market share in retail outlets selling cigarettes similar to the previous service. Market share data for 2008 have been restated to reflect this service. Due to the commencement date of the new
panel, market share data for 2007 have not been restated and accordingly are not presented below. A comparison of unrestated market share data for 2008 and 2007 can be found in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations  in the 2009 Annual Report.         
   -4-   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes cigarettes retail share performance based on this retail tracking
service:         
          PM USA ceased production at its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and completed the consolidation of its cigarette manufacturing capacity into its Richmond, Virginia facility on July 29, 2009. PM
USA expects to complete the de-commissioning of the Cabarrus facility during 2010.             Smokeless products             USSTC is the leading
producer and marketer of smokeless products, including the premium brands,  Copenhagen  and  Skoal , and the value brands,  Red Seal  and  Husky . In addition, the smokeless products segment includes  Marlboro  snus, a PM
USA spit-less smokeless tobacco product. For volume and share measurement purposes, USSTC and PM USA define smokeless products as MST and spit-less tobacco products. One pack of snus or other spit-less tobacco product is equivalent to a can of MST.
           The smokeless products segment domestic shipment volume for
the period January 6, 2009 through December 31, 2009 was 634.7 million units (measured in cans and packs). Including the volume of 10.9 million cans shipped from January 1 through January 5, 2009, the period prior to
Altria Group, Inc. s acquisition of UST, total volume for the full year ended December 31, 2009 was 645.6 million units (measured in cans and packs). The smokeless products segment domestic shipment volume for 2009 declined 2.4%
versus 2008.            The following table summarizes smokeless
products segment volume performance by brand (full year results), which includes cans and packs sold, as well as promotional units, but excludes international volume. Other includes  Marlboro  snus. Volume from 2008 represents only domestic
volume shipped by USSTC prior to the UST acquisition.         
       
   -5-   

Table of Contents  

   The smokeless products segment retail share performance is based on data from IRI, InfoScan Smokeless
Tobacco Database for Food, Drug, Mass Merchandisers (excluding Wal-Mart) and Convenience trade classes, which tracks smokeless products market share performance. It is IRI s standard practice to periodically refresh their InfoScan syndicated
services, and therefore prior period retail share results have been restated.            The following table summarizes the smokeless products segment sequential retail share performance (full quarterly results, excluding international volume):         
           Cigars             The
cigars segment shipment volume in 2009 decreased 3.6% versus 2008 to 1,259 million units. The following table summarizes cigars segment volume performance:         

          Middleton achieved a 30.5% retail share of the machine-made large cigars segment for 2009, up 1.2 share points versus the prior-year period. Middleton defines machine-made large cigars as cigars made by machine
that weigh greater than three pounds per thousand, except cigars sold at retail in packages of 20 cigars.  Black   Mild  s retail share increased 1.3 share points versus the prior-year period to 29.9% of the machine-made large
cigar segment. Effective with the first quarter of 2009, cigar retail share results are based on data from IRI, InfoScan Cigar Database for Food, Drug, Mass Merchandisers (excluding Wal-Mart) and Convenience trade classes, which tracks machine-made
large cigars market share performance. This service was developed to provide a representation of retail business performance in key trade channels. Market share data for 2008 have been restated to reflect this service. Due to the commencement date
of the new panel, market share data for 2007 have not been restated and accordingly are not presented below. A comparison of unrestated market share data for 2008 and 2007 can be found in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations  in the 2009 Annual Report. It is IRI s standard practice to periodically refresh their InfoScan syndicated services.         
   -6-   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes cigars segment retail share performance:         
           Distribution, Competition and Raw Materials             Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries sell their tobacco products principally to wholesalers (including distributors), large retail organizations, including chain stores, and the armed services.
           The market for tobacco products is highly competitive,
characterized by brand recognition and loyalty, with product quality, taste, price, product innovation, marketing, packaging and distribution constituting the significant methods of competition. Promotional activities include, in certain instances
and where permitted by law, allowances, the distribution of incentive items, price promotions and other discounts, including coupons, product promotions and allowances for new products. The tobacco products of Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries
are advertised and promoted through various media, although television and radio advertising of certain tobacco products is prohibited in the United States. In addition, as discussed below in Item 3.  Legal Proceedings , PM USA, USSTC and
other U.S. tobacco manufacturers have agreed to other marketing restrictions in the United States as part of the settlements of state health care cost recovery actions.       
     In the United States, under a contract growing program, PM USA purchases burley and flue-cured leaf tobaccos of various grades and
styles directly from tobacco growers. Under the terms of this program, PM USA agrees to purchase the amount of tobacco specified in the grower contracts. PM USA also purchases its United States tobacco requirements through other sources. In 2003, PM
USA and certain other defendants reached an agreement with plaintiffs to settle a suit filed on behalf of a purported class of tobacco growers and quota-holders. The agreement includes a commitment by each settling manufacturer defendant, including
PM USA, to purchase a certain percentage of its leaf requirements from U.S. tobacco growers over a period of at least ten years. These quantities are subject to adjustment in accordance with the terms of the settlement agreement.            Tobacco production in the United States was historically subject to
government controls, including the production control programs administered by the United States Department of Agriculture (the  USDA ). In October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ( FETRA ) was signed into
law. FETRA provided for the elimination of the federal tobacco quota and price support program through an industry funded buy-out of tobacco growers and quota-holders. The cost of the buy-out, which is estimated at approximately $9.5 billion,
is being paid over 10 years by manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The quota buy-out
payments offset already scheduled payments to the National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust (the  NTGST ). PM USA, USSTC, and Middleton are all subject to obligations imposed by FETRA. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings , Health Care
Cost Recovery Litigation National Grower Settlement Trust for a discussion of the NTGST. Manufacturers and importers of tobacco products, including the tobacco subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc., were also obligated to cover any losses (up to
$500 million) that the government incurred on the disposition of tobacco pool stock accumulated under the previous tobacco price support program. The quota buy-out did not have a material impact on Altria Group, Inc. s 2009
        
   -7-   

Table of Contents  

consolidated results and Altria Group, Inc. does not currently anticipate that the quota buy-out will have a material adverse impact on its consolidated results in 2010 and beyond.            USSTC purchases burley, dark fire-cured and air-cured tobaccos of various
grades and styles from domestic tobacco growers under a contract growing program as well as from leaf dealers.            Middleton purchases burley and flue-cured tobaccos of various grades and styles through leaf dealers. Middleton does not have a contract growing
program.            Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries
believe there is an adequate supply of tobacco in the world markets to satisfy their current and anticipated production requirements.             Wine             Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST and its premium wine business, Ste. Michelle in January 2009. Ste. Michelle is a producer of premium varietal and
blended table wines. Ste. Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarily  Chateau Ste. Michelle  and  Columbia Crest,  and owns wineries in or distributes wines from several other wine regions .  Ste. Michelle
holds an 85% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori, LLC, which owns  Stag s Leap Wine Cellars  in Napa Valley. Ste. Michelle also owns  Conn Creek  in Napa Valley and  Erath  in Oregon. In addition, Ste. Michelle distributes
Antinori and Villa Maria Estates wines and  Champagne Nicolas Feuillatte  in the United States.            For the year ended December 31, 2009, Ste. Michelle s wine shipment volume of 6.0 million cases was 2.1% lower than 2008.            The following table summarizes wine segment case shipment volume
performance by brand. Volume for 2008 represents volume shipped by Ste. Michelle prior to the UST acquisition:         
          In 2009, Ste. Michelle s retail volume, as measured by Nielsen Total Wine Database U.S. Food   Drug, increased 10% versus 2008.             Distribution, Competition and Raw Materials             A key element of Ste. Michelle s strategy is expanded domestic distribution of its wines, especially in certain
account categories such as restaurants, wholesale clubs, supermarkets, wine shops and mass merchandisers.            Ste. Michelle s business is subject to significant competition, including competition from many larger, well-established domestic and
international companies, as well as from many smaller wine producers. Wine segment competition is primarily based on quality, price, consumer and trade wine tastings, competitive wine judging, third-party acclaim and advertising. Substantially all
of Ste. Michelle s sales occur through state-licensed distributors.         
   -8-   

Table of Contents  

   Federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various
means, including licensing requirements, pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies. Further regulatory restrictions or additional excise or other taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages
may have an adverse effect on Ste. Michelle s wine business.            Ste. Michelle uses grapes harvested from its own vineyards or purchased from independent growers, as well as bulk wine purchased from other sources. Grape production can be adversely affected by weather and other
forces that may limit production. At the present time, Ste. Michelle believes that there is a sufficient supply of grapes and bulk wine available in the market to satisfy its current and expected production requirements.             Financial Services             In 2003, PMCC ceased making new investments and began focusing exclusively
on managing its existing portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize gains and generate cash flow from asset sales and related activities. Accordingly, PMCC s operating companies income will fluctuate over time as investments mature or are
sold. At December 31, 2009, PMCC s net finance receivables of approximately $4.8 billion in leveraged leases, which is included in finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheet, consisted of rentals
receivable ($14.4 billion) and the residual value of assets under lease ($1.4 billion), reduced by third-party nonrecourse debt ($9.2 billion) and unearned income ($1.8 billion). The payment of the nonrecourse debt is collateralized by lease
payments due under the associated leases and the leased property, and is nonrecourse to the general assets of PMCC or Altria Group, Inc. As required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the third-party
nonrecourse debt has been offset against the related rentals receivable and has been presented on a net basis within finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets. Finance assets, net, at December 31, 2009, also
included net finance receivables for direct finance leases ($0.3 billion) and an allowance for losses ($0.3 billion).            At December 31, 2009, PMCC s investment in finance leases was principally comprised of the following investment categories: rail and surface
transport (28%), aircraft (25%), electric power (23%), manufacturing (12%), and real estate (12%).             Business Environment             Portions of the information called for by this Item are hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraphs captioned  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Operating Results by
Business Segment Tobacco Space Business Environment  on pages 89 to 94 of the 2009 Annual Report;  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Operating Results by Business
Segment Wine Segment Business Environment  on page 98 of such report; and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Operating Results by Business Segment Financial
Services Segment Business Environment  on pages 98 to 99 of such report and made a part hereof.             Other Matters              Customers             The largest customer of PM USA,
USSTC and Middleton, McLane Company, Inc., accounted for approximately 26%, 27%, and 26% of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These net revenues were reported
in the cigarettes, smokeless products and cigars segments.         
   -9-   

Table of Contents  

   Sales to three distributors accounted for approximately 64% of net revenues for the wine segment for
the year ended December 31, 2009.             Employees             At December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries
employed approximately 10,000 people.             Executive Officers of Altria
Group, Inc.             The disclosure regarding executive
officers is set forth under the heading  Executive Officers as of February 24, 2010  in Item 10 of this Form 10-K and is incorporated by reference herein.             Research and Development             The research and development expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are set forth in Note 19.  Additional Information 
to Altria Group, Inc. s financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2009 Annual Report.             Intellectual Property             Trademarks are of material importance to Altria Group, Inc. and its operating companies, and are protected by registration or otherwise. In addition,
as of December 31, 2009, the portfolio of over 500 United States patents owned by Altria Group, Inc. s businesses, as a whole, was material to Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco businesses. However, no one patent or a group of related
patents was material to Altria Group, Inc. s business or its tobacco businesses as of December 31, 2009. We also have proprietary secrets, technology, know-how, processes and other intellectual property rights that are protected by
appropriate confidentiality measures. Certain trade secrets are material to Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco and wine businesses.             Environmental Regulation             Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the
discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise related to environmental protection, including, in the United States: the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as  Superfund ), which can impose joint and several liability on each responsible party. Subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) of Altria Group, Inc. are involved in several matters
subjecting them to potential costs related to remediations under Superfund or other laws and regulations. Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in connection with environmental laws and
regulations. Although it is not possible to predict precise levels of environmental-related expenditures, compliance with such laws and regulations, including the payment of any remediation costs and the making of such expenditures, has not had, and
is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position, earnings or competitive position.              (d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas              Substantially all of Altria Group, Inc. s net revenues from
continuing operations are from sales generated in the United States for each of the last three fiscal years. As is described in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  set forth in the
2009
        
   -10-   

Table of Contents  

Annual Report, subsequent to the PMI spin-off, PM USA recorded net revenues of $298 million from contract volume manufactured for PMI under an agreement that terminated in the fourth quarter of
2008. Subsequent to the PMI spin-off, substantially all of Altria Group, Inc. s long-lived assets are located in the United States.              (e) Available Information              Altria Group, Inc. is required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Investors may read
and copy any document that Altria Group, Inc. files, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the
Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access Altria Group, Inc. s SEC filings.            Altria Group, Inc. makes available free of charge on or through its website (www.altria.com), its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after Altria Group,
Inc. electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Investors can access Altria Group, Inc. s filings with the SEC by visiting www.altria.com/secfilings.            The information on the respective websites of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries is not, and shall not be deemed to
be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings Altria Group, Inc. makes with the SEC.         

Item 1A.   
        Risk Factors                    The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this
Annual Report. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report.  
           We   *    may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in filings with the SEC, in
reports to security holders and in press releases and investor webcasts. You can identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such as  strategy,   expects,   continues,   plans, 
 anticipates,   believes,   will,   estimates,   intends,   projects,   goals,   targets  and other words of similar meaning. You can also identify them by the fact that
they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.            We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions.
Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider
forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested in Altria Group, Inc. s securities. In connection with the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying
important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results and    

*  
    This section uses the terms  we,   our  and  us  when it is not necessary to distinguish among Altria Group, Inc. and its various
operating subsidiaries or when any distinction is clear from the context.            
   -11-   

Table of Contents  

outcomes to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. We elaborate
on these and other risks we face throughout this document, particularly in the  Business Environment  sections preceding our discussion of operating results of our subsidiaries  businesses in  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in the 2009 Annual Report. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete
discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time.             Tobacco-Related Litigation . Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United States and foreign
jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries including PM USA and UST, as well as their respective indemnitees. Various types of claims are raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust,
tax, contraband shipments, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors and distributors.            Litigation is subject to uncertainty and it is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending cases. An unfavorable outcome or settlement
of pending tobacco related litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation. Damages claimed in some tobacco-related litigation are significant and, in certain cases, range in the billions of dollars. The variability in
pleadings, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome.            Although PM USA has historically been able to obtain required bonds or
relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases. This risk has been substantially
reduced given that 43 states now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all.            Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have achieved substantial success in managing litigation. Nevertheless, litigation is subject to uncertainty and significant challenges remain. It is possible that the
consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of
certain pending litigation. Altria Group, Inc. and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well
as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts. Each of the companies has defended, and will continue to defend, vigorously against litigation challenges. However, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in
particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of Altria Group, Inc. to do so. See Note 22.  Contingencies  to our consolidated financial statements, Item 3.  Legal Proceedings , and Exhibit 99.1 for a discussion of
pending tobacco-related litigation.             Tobacco Regulation
and Control Action in the Public and Private Sectors . Our tobacco subsidiaries face significant governmental action, including efforts aimed at reducing the incidence of tobacco use, restricting marketing and advertising, imposing regulations on
packaging, warnings and disclosure of flavors or other ingredients, prohibiting the sale of tobacco products with certain characterizing flavors or other characteristics, limiting or prohibiting the sale of tobacco products by certain retail
establishments and the sale of tobacco products in certain packing sizes, and seeking to hold them responsible for the adverse health effects associated with both smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke. Governmental actions, combined
with the diminishing social acceptance of smoking and private actions to restrict smoking, have resulted in reduced industry volume, and we expect that these factors will continue to reduce consumption levels.         
   -12-   

Table of Contents  

   PM USA, USSTC and other Altria Group, Inc. subsidiaries are now subject to extensive regulation by the
FDA, as discussed further in  Tobacco Space Business Environment FDA Regulation  in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in the 2009 Annual Report. We cannot predict
how the FDA might implement and enforce its statutory authority, including by promulgating additional regulations and pursuing possible enforcement actions, but such implementation and enforcement may impact the consumer acceptability of tobacco
products, limit adult consumer choices, delay or prevent the launch of new or modified tobacco products, restrict communications to adult consumers, create a competitive advantage or disadvantage for certain tobacco companies, impose additional
manufacturing requirements, or otherwise significantly increase the cost of doing business, all or any of which may have a material adverse impact on the results of operations or financial condition of Altria Group, Inc.             Excise Taxes . Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise
taxes and significant increases in tobacco product-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States at the state, federal and local levels. Tax increases are expected
to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of our tobacco products due to lower consumption levels and to a potential shift in consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other low-priced or low-taxed
tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products. For further discussion, see  Tobacco Space Business Environment Excise Taxes  in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  in the 2009 Annual Report.             Increased
Competition in the United States Tobacco Categories . Each of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries operates in highly competitive tobacco categories. Settlements of certain tobacco litigation in the United States have resulted in
substantial cigarette price increases. PM USA faces competition from lowest priced brands sold by certain United States and foreign manufacturers that have cost advantages because they are not parties to these settlements. These manufacturers may
fail to comply with related state escrow legislation or may avoid escrow deposit obligations on the majority of their sales by concentrating on certain states where escrow deposits are not required or are required on fewer than all such
manufacturers  cigarettes sold in such states. Additional competition has resulted from diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the
sale of cigarettes by third parties over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes, and increased imports of foreign lowest priced brands. USSTC faces significant competition in the smokeless tobacco category,
both from existing competitors and new entrants, and has experienced consumer down-trading to lower-priced brands.             Governmental Investigations . From time to time, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations on a range of
matters. We cannot predict whether new investigations may be commenced or the outcome of such investigations, and it is possible that our subsidiaries  businesses could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome of future investigations.
            New Tobacco Product Technologies . Altria Group,
Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries continue to seek ways to develop and to commercialize new tobacco product technologies that may reduce the health risks associated with current tobacco products, while continuing to offer adult tobacco consumers
products that meet their taste expectations. Potential solutions being researched include tobacco products that reduce or eliminate exposure to cigarette smoke and/or constituents identified by public health authorities as harmful. Our tobacco
subsidiaries may not succeed in these efforts. If they do not succeed, but one or more of their competitors does, our subsidiaries may be at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we cannot predict whether regulators, including the FDA, will permit
the marketing of tobacco products with claims of reduced risk to consumers or whether consumers  purchase decisions would be affected by such claims, which could affect the commercial viability of any tobacco products that might be developed.
        
   -13-   

Table of Contents  

    Adjacency Strategy . Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have adjacency growth strategies
involving moves and potential moves into complementary products or processes. We cannot guarantee that these strategies, or any products introduced in connection with these strategies, will be successful.             Tobacco Price, Availability and Quality . Any significant change in
tobacco leaf prices, quality or availability could affect our tobacco subsidiaries  profitability and business. For a discussion of factors that influence leaf prices, availability and quality, see  Tobacco Space Business
Environment Tobacco Price, Availability and Quality  in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in the 2009 Annual Report.             Key Facilities; Supply Security . Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco
subsidiaries face risks inherent in reliance on a few significant facilities and a small number of significant suppliers. A natural or man-made disaster or other disruption that affects the manufacturing facilities of any of Altria Group,
Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries or the facilities of any significant suppliers of any of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries could adversely impact the operations of the affected subsidiaries. An extended interruption in operations
experienced by one or more Altria Group, Inc. subsidiaries or significant suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of Altria Group, Inc.             Attracting and Retaining Talent . Our ability to implement our
strategy of attracting and retaining the best talent may be impaired by the decreasing social acceptance of tobacco usage. The tobacco industry competes for talent with the consumer products industry and other companies that enjoy greater societal
acceptance. As a result, our tobacco subsidiaries may be unable to attract and retain the best talent.             Competition and Economic Downturns . Each of our tobacco and wine subsidiaries is subject to intense competition, changes in consumer preferences
and changes in economic conditions. To be successful, they must continue to:         

promote brand equity successfully;            

anticipate and respond to new and evolving consumer preferences;          

develop new products and markets and to broaden brand portfolios in order to compete effectively with lower-priced products;            

improve productivity; and            

protect or enhance margins through cost savings and price increases.               The willingness of adult consumers to purchase premium consumer product brands depends in part on economic conditions. In
periods of economic uncertainty, adult consumers may purchase more discount brands and/or, in the case of tobacco products, consider lower-priced tobacco products. The volumes of our tobacco and wine subsidiaries could suffer accordingly.
           Our finance subsidiary, PMCC, holds investments in finance
leases, principally in transportation (including aircraft), power generation and manufacturing equipment and facilities. Its lessees are also subject to intense competition and economic conditions. If parties to PMCC s leases fail to manage
through difficult economic and competitive conditions, PMCC may have to increase its allowance for losses, which would adversely affect our earnings.             Acquisitions . Altria Group, Inc. from time to time considers acquisitions. From time to time we may engage in confidential acquisition
negotiations that are not publicly announced unless and until those negotiations result in a definitive agreement. Although we seek to maintain or improve our debt ratings over time, it is possible that completing a given acquisition or other event
could impact our debt ratings
        
   -14-   

Table of Contents  

or the outlook for those ratings. Furthermore, acquisition opportunities are limited, and acquisitions present risks of failing to achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic
objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms, that we will realize any of the anticipated benefits from an
acquisition or that acquisitions will be quickly accretive to earnings.             UST Acquisition . There can be no assurance that we will achieve the synergies expected of the UST acquisition.             Capital Markets . Access to the capital markets is important for us to satisfy our liquidity and financing needs. Disruption and uncertainty in
the capital markets and any resulting tightening of credit availability, pricing and/or credit terms may negatively affect the amount of credit available to us and may also increase our costs and adversely affect our earnings or our dividend rate.
            Exchange Rates . For purposes of financial reporting,
the equity earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. s investment in SABMiller are translated into U.S. dollars from various local currencies based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. During times of a
strengthening U.S. dollar against these currencies, our reported equity earnings in SABMiller will be reduced because the local currencies will translate into fewer U.S. dollars.             Asset Impairment . We periodically calculate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets to test for
impairment. This calculation may be affected by the market conditions noted above, as well as interest rates and general economic conditions. If an impairment is determined to exist, we will incur impairment losses, which will reduce our earnings.
For further discussion, see  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Depreciation, Amortization and Intangible Asset Valuation  in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in
the 2009 Annual Report.             IRS Challenges to PMCC
Leases . The Internal Revenue Service has challenged the tax treatment of certain of PMCC s leveraged leases. Should Altria Group, Inc. not prevail in any one or more of these matters, Altria Group, Inc. may have to accelerate the payment of
significant amounts of federal income tax, pay associated interest costs and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the income from the affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash
flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year. For further discussion see Note 22.  Contingencies  to our consolidated financial statements and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings .             Wine Competition; Grape Supply; Regulation and Excise Taxes .
Ste. Michelle s business is subject to significant competition, including from many large, well-established national and international organizations. The adequacy of Ste. Michelle s grape supply is influenced by consumer demand
for wine in relation to industry-wide production levels as well as by weather and crop conditions, particularly in eastern Washington State. Supply shortages related to any one or more of these factors could increase production costs and wine
prices, which ultimately may have a negative impact on Ste. Michelle s sales. In addition, federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various means, including licensing requirements,
pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies. New regulations or revisions to existing regulations, resulting in further restrictions or taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages, may have
an adverse effect on Ste. Michelle s wine business. For further discussion, see  Wine Segment Business Environment  in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in the
2009 Annual Report.         

Item 1B.       
    Unresolved Staff Comments.                   None.         
   -15-   

Table of Contents  

Item 2.       
    Properties.                   The property in Richmond, Virginia that serves as the headquarters facility for Altria Group, Inc., PM USA, USSTC and Middleton and certain other
subsidiaries is under lease.            At December 31, 2009, PM
USA owned and operated four tobacco manufacturing and processing facilities in the Richmond, Virginia area. One of these facilities is used for the manufacturing and processing of smokeless products. PM USA ceased production at its Cabarrus, North
Carolina manufacturing facility and completed the consolidation of its cigarette manufacturing capacity into its Richmond, Virginia facility on July 29, 2009. PM USA expects to complete the de-commissioning of the Cabarrus facility during 2010.
In addition, PM USA owns a research and technology center in Richmond, Virginia that is leased to an affiliate, Altria Client Services Inc.            At December 31, 2009, a wholly-owned subsidiary of USSTC owned and operated three smokeless tobacco manufacturing and processing facilities
located in Franklin Park, Illinois; Hopkinsville, Kentucky; and Nashville, Tennessee.            At December 31, 2009, Middleton owned and operated two manufacturing and processing facilities one in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania and one in Limerick, Pennsylvania.            At December 31, 2009, Ste. Michelle operated 11 wine-making
facilities seven in Washington State, three in California and one in Oregon. All of these facilities are owned, with the exception of two facilities which are leased, one in each of the states of Washington and Oregon. In addition, in order to
support the production of its wines, Ste. Michelle owns or leases vineyards in Washington State, California and Oregon.            The plants and properties owned or leased and operated by Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are maintained in good condition and are believed to
be suitable and adequate for present needs.         

Item 3.   
      Legal Proceedings.                  Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group,
Inc. and its subsidiaries, including PM USA and UST and its subsidiaries, as well as their respective indemnitees. Various types of claims are raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband
shipments, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of distributors.            Litigation is subject to uncertainty and it is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending or future cases. An unfavorable outcome or
settlement of pending tobacco-related or other litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation. Damages claimed in some tobacco-related and other litigation are or can be significant and, in certain cases, range in the billions
of dollars. The variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the
ultimate outcome.            Although PM USA has historically been
able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases.
This risk has been substantially reduced given that 43 states now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all.            Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when they determine that an
unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the
        
   -16-   

Table of Contents  

loss can be reasonably estimated. At the present time, while it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur, except as discussed elsewhere in this Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings : (i) management has concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result
from an unfavorable outcome in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for unfavorable outcomes, if any. Legal defense costs are expensed
as incurred.            Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have
achieved substantial success in managing litigation. Nevertheless, litigation is subject to uncertainty and significant challenges remain. It is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group,
Inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. Altria Group, Inc. and each of its subsidiaries named as a
defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts. Each of the companies has defended, and
will continue to defend, vigorously against litigation challenges. However, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of Altria Group, Inc. to do so.
        
   -17-   

Table of Contents  

    Overview of Altria Group, Inc. and/or PM USA Tobacco-Related Litigation              Types and Number of Cases             Claims related to tobacco products generally fall within the following
categories: (i) smoking and health cases alleging personal injury brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs; (ii) smoking and health cases primarily alleging personal injury or seeking court-supervised programs for ongoing medical
monitoring and purporting to be brought on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs, including cases in which the aggregated claims of a number of individual plaintiffs are to be tried in a single proceeding; (iii) health care cost recovery
cases brought by governmental (both domestic and foreign) and non-governmental plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking and/or disgorgement of profits; (iv) class action suits alleging
that the uses of the terms  Lights  and  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud, or violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ( RICO  and
(v) other tobacco-related litigation described below. Plaintiffs  theories of recovery and the defenses raised in pending smoking and health, health care cost recovery and  Lights/Ultra Lights  cases are discussed below.
           The table below lists the number of certain tobacco-related
cases pending in the United States against PM USA and, in some instances, Altria Group, Inc. as of February 19, 2010, December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008.         

(1)  
  Does not include 2,595 cases brought by flight attendants seeking compensatory damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to environmental tobacco smoke
( ETS ). The flight attendants allege that they are members of an ETS smoking and health class action, which was settled in 1997. The terms of the court-approved settlement in that case allow class members to file individual lawsuits
seeking compensatory damages, but prohibit them from seeking punitive damages. Also, does not include eight individual smoking and health cases brought against certain retailers that are indemnitees of PM USA. Additionally, does not include
approximately 7,711 individual smoking and health cases (3,272 state court cases and 4,439 federal court cases) brought by or on behalf of approximately 9,511 plaintiffs in Florida (5,073 state court plaintiffs and 4,438 federal court plaintiffs)
following the decertification of the  Engle  case discussed below. It is possible that some of these cases are duplicates and additional cases have been filed but not yet recorded on the courts  dockets.           

(2)  
    Includes as one case the 711 civil actions (of which 405 are actions against PM USA) that are proposed to be tried in a single proceeding in West Virginia.
Middleton and USSTC were named as defendants in this action but they, along with other non-cigarette manufacturers, have been severed from this case. The West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals has ruled that the United States Constitution does not
preclude a trial in two phases in this case. Issues related to defendants  conduct, plaintiffs  entitlement to punitive damages and a punitive damages multiplier, if any, would be determined in the first phase. The second phase would
consist of individual trials to determine liability, if any, and compensatory damages. In November 2007, the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals denied defendants  renewed motion for review of the trial plan. In
           
   -18-   

Table of Contents  

December 2007, defendants filed a petition for  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court, which was denied in February 2008. The first phase of the trial is now
scheduled for June 1, 2010.                International
Tobacco-Related Cases             As of February 19, 2010, PM
USA is a named defendant in Israel in a  Lights  class action, a health care cost recovery action, and an individual smoking and health action. PM USA is a named defendant in three health care cost recovery actions in Canada, two of which
also name Altria Group, Inc. as a defendant. PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. are also named defendants in four smoking and health class actions filed in various Canadian provinces. See   Guarantees   for a discussion of the Distribution
Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products.             Pending and Upcoming Trials             As of February 19, 2010, 56  Engle  progeny cases against PM USA are set for trial in 2010. Cases against other tobacco companies are also
scheduled for trial in 2010. Trial dates are subject to change.             Trial
Results             Since January 1999, verdicts have been
returned in 52 smoking and health,  Lights/Ultra Lights  and health care cost recovery cases in which PM USA was a defendant. Verdicts in favor of PM USA and other defendants were returned in 31 of the 52 cases. These 31 cases were tried
in California (5), Florida (11), Mississippi (1), Missouri (2), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (1), New York (3), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania (1), Rhode Island (1), Tennessee (2), and West Virginia (1). A motion for a new trial was granted in one of the
cases in Florida.            Of the 21 cases in which verdicts were
returned in favor of plaintiffs, ten have reached final resolution and one case ( Williams    see below) has reached partial resolution. A verdict against defendants in one health care cost recovery case has been reversed and all claims
were dismissed with prejudice. In addition, a verdict against defendants in a purported  Lights  class action in Illinois ( Price ) was reversed and the case was dismissed with prejudice in December 2006. In December 2008, the
plaintiff in  Price  filed a motion with the state trial court to vacate the judgment dismissing this case in light of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good  (see below for a discussion of developments in  Good 
and  Price ). After exhausting all appeals, PM USA has paid judgments in these cases totaling $107.6 million and interest totaling $64.3 million.         
   -19-   

Table of Contents  

   The chart below lists the verdicts and post-trial developments in the cases that were pending during
2009 that have gone to trial since January 1999 in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs.         

Date                 
      
     Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      
 
  November 2009  
      
    Florida/      Naugle    
      
   Engle  progeny  
      
  On November 19, 2009, a Broward County jury in the  Naugle  trial returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and against PM USA. The jury awarded approximately $56.6 million in
compensatory damages and $244 million in punitive damages. The jury allocated 90% of the fault to PM USA.  
      
  On November 23 and November 30, 2009, PM USA filed motions for a new trial and to set aside the verdicts as well as a motion for remittitur of the compensatory damages and punitive
damages awards. On December 18, 2009, the trial court denied all post-trial motions except for the motion for remittitur. On February 24, 2010, the trial court granted a remittitur, giving plaintiff 30 days to choose between either
accepting a reduced award of approximately $13 million in compensatory damages and $26 million in punitive damages or opting for a new trial on the issues of compensatory and punitive damages.   

August 2009  
      
    Florida/      Campbell    
      
   Engle  progeny  
      
  In August 2009, the jury in the  Campbell  trial (conducted in Escambia County) returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and against R.J. Reynolds, PM USA and Liggett Group. The jury
awarded $7.8 million in compensatory damages. There was no punitive damages award. In September 2009, the trial court entered final judgment and awarded the plaintiff $156,000 in damages against PM USA due to the jury allocating only 2% of the fault
to PM USA.  
      
  In August 2009, defendants filed a joint motion to set aside the verdict, to enter judgment in accordance with defendants  motion for directed verdict, or, in the alternative, to order a
new trial or for remittitur of the jury s actual damages award. On December 23, 2009, the trial court denied this post-verdict motion. On January 8, 2010, defendants filed their notice of appeal, and on January 12, 2010, PM USA posted a
$156,000 appeal bond.   
       
   -20-   

Table of Contents  

Date                 
      
     Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

August 2009  
      
    Florida/      Barbanell    
      
   Engle  progeny  
      
  In August 2009, a Broward County jury in the  Barbanell  trial returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff, awarding $5.3 million in compensatory damages. The judge had previously
dismissed the punitive damages claim. In September 2009, the trial court entered final judgment and awarded plaintiff $1.95 million in actual damages. The judgment reduced the jury s $5.3 million award of compensatory damages due to the jury
allocating 36.5% of the fault to PM USA.  
      
  A notice of appeal was filed in September 2009, and PM USA posted a $1.95 million appeal bond.   

February 2009  
      
    Florida/      Hess    
      
   Engle  progeny  
      
  In February 2009, a Broward County jury in the  Hess  trial found in favor of plaintiffs and against PM USA. The jury awarded $3 million in compensatory damages and $5 million in
punitive damages. In June 2009, the trial court entered final judgment and awarded plaintiffs $1,260,000 in actual damages and $5 million in punitive damages. The judgment reduced the jury s $3 million award of compensatory damages due to the
jury allocating 42% of the fault to PM USA.   
      
  PM USA noticed an appeal to the Fourth District Court of Appeal in July 2009 and posted a $7.3 million appeal bond.   
       
   -21-   

Table of Contents  

Date                 
      
     Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

May 2007  
      
  California/  Whiteley   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  Approximately $2.5 million in compensatory damages against PM USA and the other defendant in the case, as well as $250,000 in punitive damages against the other defendant in the
case.  
      
  In October 2007, in a limited retrial on the issue of punitive damages, the jury found that plaintiffs are not entitled to punitive damages against PM USA. In November 2007, the trial court
entered final judgment and PM USA filed a motion for a new trial and for judgment notwithstanding the verdict. The trial court rejected these motions in January 2008. In March 2008, PM USA noticed an appeal to the California Court of Appeal, First
Appellate District and, in May 2008, posted a $2.2 million appeal bond. The court affirmed the judgment in October 2009. On November 23, 2009, PM USA and the other defendant in the case filed a petition for review with the California Supreme
Court. On January 13, 2010, the California Supreme Court denied defendants  petition for review. PM USA recorded a provision for compensatory damages of $1.26 million plus costs and interest in the first quarter of 2010, and paid its share
of the judgment on February 5, 2010, concluding this litigation.   
       
   -22-   

Table of Contents  

Date                 
      
     Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

August 2006  
      
    District of Columbia/  United       States
of       America    
      
  Health Care Cost Recovery  
      
  Finding that defendants, including Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA, violated the civil provisions of RICO. No monetary damages were assessed, but the court made specific findings and issued
injunctions. See  Federal Government s Lawsuit  below.  
      
  See  Federal Government s Lawsuit  below.   

March 2005  
      
    New York/      Rose  (now known as
 Adamo )   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $3.42 million in compensatory damages against two defendants, including PM USA, and $17.1 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  In April 2008, an intermediate New York appellate court reversed the verdict and vacated the compensatory and punitive damages awards against PM USA. In December 2008, the New York Court of
Appeals affirmed the appellate court decision. In January 2009, plaintiffs filed a petition with the New York Court of Appeals requesting that the court either vacate its earlier decision and reinstate the jury verdict or remand the case to the
trial court for a new trial. The New York Court of Appeals denied plaintiffs  motion in March 2009. Plaintiffs filed a petition for a  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court, which was denied in October 2009, concluding
this litigation.   
       
   -23-   

Table of Contents  

Date                 
      
     Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

May 2004  
      
  Louisiana/  Scott   
      
  Smoking and Health Class Action  
      
  Approximately $590 million against all defendants, including PM USA, jointly and severally, to fund a 10-year smoking cessation program.  
      
  See  Scott Class Action  below.   

October 2002  
      
  California/  Bullock   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $850,000 in compensatory damages and $28 billion in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  In December 2002, the trial court reduced the punitive damages award to $28 million. In April 2006, the California Court of Appeal affirmed the $28 million punitive damages award. In January
2008, the California Court of Appeal reversed the judgment with respect to the $28 million punitive damages award, affirmed the judgment in all other respects, and remanded the case to the trial court to conduct a new trial on the amount of punitive
damages. In April 2008, the California Supreme Court denied PM USA s petition for review. In August 2009, the jury returned a verdict awarding plaintiff $13.8 million in punitive damages. See discussion (1) below.   

June 2002  
      
    Florida/      Lukacs    
      
   Engle  progeny  
      
  $37.5 million in compensatory damages against all defendants, including PM USA.  
      
  In March 2003, the trial court reduced the damages award to $24.8 million. PM USA s share of the damages award is approximately $6 million. In January 2007, defendants   
       
   -24-   

Table of Contents  

Date                 
      
     Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

petitioned the trial court to set aside the jury s verdict and dismiss plaintiffs  punitive damages claim. In August 2008, the trial court granted plaintiffs  motion for entry
of judgment and ordered compensatory damages of $24.8 million plus interest from the date of the verdict. In August 2008, PM USA filed a motion for reconsideration, which was denied. Final judgment was entered in November 2008, awarding plaintiffs
actual damages of $24.8 million, plus interest from the date of the verdict. Defendants filed a notice of appeal in December 2008 and collectively posted an appeal bond of $30.3 million. Argument is scheduled to be held in March
2010.   

March 2002  
      
  Oregon/  Schwarz   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $168,500 in compensatory damages and $150 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  In May 2002, the trial court reduced the punitive damages award to $100 million. In May 2006, the Oregon Court of Appeals affirmed the compensatory damages verdict, reversed the award of
punitive damages and remanded the case to the trial court for a second trial to determine the amount of punitive damages, if any. In June 2006,   
       
   -25-   

Table of Contents  

Date                 
      
     Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

plaintiff petitioned the Oregon Supreme Court to review the portion of the Court of Appeals  decision reversing and remanding the case for a new trial on punitive damages. The Oregon
Supreme Court held this petition in abeyance until the United States Supreme Court decided the  Williams  case described in (2) below. In May 2009, the Oregon Supreme Court issued an order granting plaintiff s petition for review. Argument
was heard on November 2, 2009.   

July 2000  
      
  Florida/  Engle   
      
  Smoking and Health Class Action  
      
  $145 billion in punitive damages against all defendants, including $74 billion against PM USA.  
      
  See  Engle Class Action  below.   

March 1999  
      
  Oregon/  Williams   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $800,000 in compensatory damages (capped statutorily at $500,000), $21,500 in medical expenses and $79.5 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  See discussion (2) below.          

(1)  
      Bullock :  In August 2006, the California Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  petition to overturn the trial court s reduction of the punitive
damages award and granted PM USA s petition for review challenging the punitive damages award. The court granted review of the case on a  grant and hold  basis under which further action by the court was deferred pending the United
States Supreme Court s 2007 decision on punitive damages in the  Williams  case described below. In February 2007, the United States Supreme Court vacated the punitive damages judgment in  Williams  and remanded the case to the Oregon
Supreme Court for proceedings consistent with its decision. In May 2007, the California Supreme Court transferred the case to the Second District of the California Court of Appeal with directions that the court vacate its 2006 decision and
reconsider the case in light of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Williams.  In January 2008, the California Court of Appeal reversed the judgment with respect to the $28 million punitive damages award, affirmed the judgment
in all other respects, and remanded the case to the trial
           
   -26-   

Table of Contents  

court to conduct a new trial on the amount of punitive damages. In March 2008, plaintiffs and PM USA appealed to the California Supreme Court. In April 2008, the California Supreme Court denied
both petitions for review. In July 2008, $43.3 million of escrow funds were returned to PM USA. The case was remanded to the superior court for a new trial on the amount of punitive damages, if any. In August 2009, the jury returned a verdict, and
on December 1, 2009, the superior court entered a judgment, awarding plaintiff $13.8 million in punitive damages, plus costs. On December 17, 2009, PM USA filed a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict that seeks a reduction of
the punitive damages award, which motion was denied on January 28, 2010. On December 28, 2009, plaintiffs filed a motion for a new trial but subsequently withdrew their motion on February 1, 2010. PM USA has recorded a provision of
approximately $1.6 million for compensatory damages, costs and interest.            

(2)  
    Williams :  The trial court reduced the punitive damages award to $32 million, and PM USA and plaintiff appealed. In June 2002, the Oregon Court of Appeals reinstated
the $79.5 million punitive damages award. Following the Oregon Supreme Court s refusal to hear PM USA s appeal, PM USA recorded a provision of $32 million and petitioned the United States Supreme Court for further review (PM USA later
recorded additional provisions of approximately $29 million related primarily to accrued interest). In October 2003, the United States Supreme Court set aside the Oregon appellate court s ruling and directed the Oregon court to reconsider the
case in light of the 2003  State Farm  decision by the United States Supreme Court, which limited punitive damages. In June 2004, the Oregon Court of Appeals reinstated the $79.5 million punitive damages award. In February 2006, the Oregon
Supreme Court affirmed the Court of Appeals  decision. The United States Supreme Court granted PM USA s petition for  writ of certiorari  in May 2006. In February 2007, the United States Supreme Court vacated the $79.5 million
punitive damages award, holding that the United States Constitution prohibits basing punitive damages awards on harm to non-parties. The Court also found that states must assure that appropriate procedures are in place so that juries
are provided with proper legal guidance as to the constitutional limitations on awards of punitive damages. Accordingly, the Court remanded the case to the Oregon Supreme Court for further proceedings consistent with this decision. In
January 2008, the Oregon Supreme Court affirmed the Oregon Court of Appeals  June 2004 decision, which in turn, upheld the jury s compensatory damages award and reinstated the jury s award of $79.5 million in punitive damages. In
March 2008, PM USA filed a petition for  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court, which was granted in June 2008. In March 2009, the United States Supreme Court dismissed the  writ of certiorari  as being improvidently
granted. Subsequent to the United States Supreme Court s dismissal, PM USA paid $61.1 million to the plaintiffs, representing the compensatory damages award, forty percent of the punitive damages award and accrued interest. Oregon state law
requires that sixty percent of any punitive damages award be paid to the state. However, PM USA believes that, as a result of the Master Settlement Agreement ( MSA ), it is not liable for the sixty percent that would be paid to the state.
Oregon and PM USA are parties to a proceeding in Oregon state court that seeks a determination of PM USA s liability for that sixty percent. If PM USA prevails, its obligation to pay punitive damages will be limited to the forty percent
previously paid to the plaintiff. The court has consolidated that MSA proceeding with  Williams , where plaintiff seeks to challenge the constitutionality of the Oregon statute apportioning the punitive damages award and claims that any
punitive damages award released by the state reverts to plaintiff. On February 12, 2010, the trial court ruled that the state is not entitled to collect its sixty percent share of the punitive damages award. The court must still determine
whether PM USA must pay the sixty percent share to plaintiff.               Security for Judgments             To obtain stays of
judgments pending current appeals, as of February 19, 2010, PM USA has posted various forms of security totaling approximately $95 million, the majority of which has been collateralized with cash deposits that are included in other assets on
the consolidated balance sheets.         
   -27-   

Table of Contents  

    Engle Class Action             In July 2000, in the second phase of the  Engle  smoking and health class action in Florida, a jury returned a verdict assessing punitive damages
totaling approximately $145 billion against various defendants, including $74 billion against PM USA. Following entry of judgment, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of $100 million and appealed.            In May 2001, the trial court approved a stipulation providing that
execution of the punitive damages component of the  Engle  judgment will remain stayed against PM USA and the other participating defendants through the completion of all judicial review. As a result of the stipulation, PM USA placed $500
million into a separate interest-bearing escrow account that, regardless of the outcome of the judicial review, will be paid to the court and the court will determine how to allocate or distribute it consistent with Florida Rules of Civil Procedure.
In July 2001, PM USA also placed $1.2 billion into an interest-bearing escrow account, which was returned to PM USA in December 2007. In addition, the $100 million bond related to the case has been discharged. In connection with the stipulation, PM
USA recorded a $500 million pre-tax charge in its consolidated statement of earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2001. In May 2003, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal reversed the judgment entered by the trial court and instructed
the trial court to order the decertification of the class. Plaintiffs petitioned the Florida Supreme Court for further review.            In July 2006, the Florida Supreme Court ordered that the punitive damages award be vacated, that the class approved by the trial court be decertified,
and that members of the decertified class could file individual actions against defendants within one year of issuance of the mandate. The court further declared the following Phase I findings are entitled to  res judicata  effect in such
individual actions brought within one year of the issuance of the mandate: (i) that smoking causes various diseases; (ii) that nicotine in cigarettes is addictive; (iii) that defendants  cigarettes were defective and unreasonably
dangerous; (iv) that defendants concealed or omitted material information not otherwise known or available knowing that the material was false or misleading or failed to disclose a material fact concerning the health effects or addictive nature
of smoking; (v) that defendants agreed to misrepresent information regarding the health effects or addictive nature of cigarettes with the intention of causing the public to rely on this information to their detriment; (vi) that defendants
agreed to conceal or omit information regarding the health effects of cigarettes or their addictive nature with the intention that smokers would rely on the information to their detriment; (vii) that all defendants sold or supplied cigarettes
that were defective; and (viii) that defendants were negligent. The court also reinstated compensatory damages awards totaling approximately $6.9 million to two individual plaintiffs and found that a third plaintiff s claim was barred by
the statute of limitations. In February 2008, PM USA paid a total of $2,964,685, which represents its share of compensatory damages and interest to the two individual plaintiffs identified in the Florida Supreme Court s order.   
        In August 2006, PM USA sought rehearing from the Florida Supreme Court
on parts of its July 2006 opinion, including the ruling (described above) that certain jury findings have  res judicata  effect in subsequent individual trials timely brought by  Engle  class members. The rehearing motion also asked, among
other things, that legal errors that were raised but not expressly ruled upon in the Third District Court of Appeal or in the Florida Supreme Court now be addressed. Plaintiffs also filed a motion for rehearing in August 2006 seeking clarification
of the applicability of the statute of limitations to non-members of the decertified class. In December 2006, the Florida Supreme Court refused to revise its July 2006 ruling, except that it revised the set of Phase I findings entitled to  res
judicata  effect by excluding finding (v) listed above (relating to agreement to misrepresent information), and added the finding that defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that, at the time of sale or supply, did not conform to the
representations of fact made by defendants. In January 2007, the Florida Supreme Court issued the mandate from its revised opinion. Defendants then filed a motion with the Florida Third District Court of Appeal requesting that the court address
legal errors that were previously raised by
        
   -28-   

Table of Contents  

defendants but have not yet been addressed either by the Third District Court of Appeal or by the Florida Supreme Court. In February 2007, the Third District Court of Appeal denied
defendants  motion. In May 2007, defendants  motion for a partial stay of the mandate pending the completion of appellate review was denied by the Third District Court of Appeal. In May 2007, defendants filed a petition for  writ of
certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court. In October 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petition. In November 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petition for rehearing from the denial
of their petition for  writ of certiorari .            The
deadline for filing  Engle  progeny cases, as required by the Florida Supreme Court s decision, expired in January 2008. As of February 19, 2010, approximately 7,713 cases (3,275 state court cases and 4,438 federal court cases) were
pending against PM USA or Altria Group, Inc. asserting individual claims by or on behalf of approximately 9,522 plaintiffs (5,086 state court plaintiffs and 4,436 federal court plaintiffs). It is possible that some of these cases are duplicates. 
 Some of these cases have been removed from various Florida state courts to the federal district courts in Florida, while others were filed in federal court. In July 2007, PM USA and other defendants requested that the multi-district litigation
panel order the transfer of all such cases pending in the federal courts, as well as any other  Engle  progeny cases that may be filed, to the Middle District of Florida for pretrial coordination. The panel denied this request in December 2007.
In October 2007, attorneys for plaintiffs filed a motion to consolidate all pending and future cases filed in the state trial court in Hillsborough County. The court denied this motion in November 2007. In February 2008, the trial court decertified
the class except for purposes of the May 2001 bond stipulation, and formally vacated the punitive damages award pursuant to the Florida Supreme Court s mandate. In April 2008, the trial court ruled that certain defendants, including PM USA,
lacked standing with respect to allocation of the funds escrowed under the May 2001 bond stipulation and will receive no credit at this time from the $500 million paid by PM USA against any future punitive damages awards in cases brought by
former  Engle  class members.            In May 2008, the trial
court, among other things, decertified the limited class maintained for purposes of the May 2001 bond stipulation and, in July 2008, severed the remaining plaintiffs  claims except for those of Howard Engle. The only remaining plaintiff in
the  Engle  case, Howard Engle, voluntarily dismissed his claims with prejudice. In July 2008, attorneys for a putative former  Engle  class member petitioned the Florida Supreme Court to permit members of the  Engle  class additional
time to file individual lawsuits. The Florida Supreme Court denied this petition in January 2009.            Three federal district courts (in the  Merlob, Brown  and  Burr  cases) have ruled that the findings in the first phase of the  Engle 
proceedings cannot be used to satisfy elements of plaintiffs  claims, and two of those rulings  (Brown  and  Burr)  have been certified by the trial court for interlocutory review. The certification in both cases has been granted by
the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit and the appeals have been consolidated. Argument was held on January 26, 2010. In February 2009, the appeal in  Burr  was dismissed for lack of prosecution.  Engle
 progeny cases pending in the federal district courts in the Middle District of Florida asserting individual claims by or on behalf of approximately 4,436 plaintiffs have been stayed pending interlocutory review by the Eleventh Circuit. State
trial court judges have issued contrary rulings that allowed plaintiffs to use the  Engle  findings to establish elements of their claims and required certain defenses to be stricken.            In June 2009, Florida amended its existing bond cap statute by adding a
$200 million bond cap that applies to all  Engle  progeny lawsuits in the aggregate and establishes individual bond caps for individual  Engle  progeny cases in amounts that vary depending on the number of judgments in effect at a given
time. The legislation, which became effective in June 2009, applies to judgments entered after the effective date and remains in effect until December 31, 2012.            As of February 19, 2010, six  Engle  progeny cases involving PM USA have resulted in verdicts since the Florida
Supreme Court  Engle  decision. Four verdicts (see  Hess, Barbanell, Campbell  and
        
   -29-   

Table of Contents  

Naugle  descriptions in the table above) were returned in favor of plaintiffs and two verdicts were returned in favor of PM USA ( Gelep  and  Kalyvas ). The plaintiff in  Gelep 
initially appealed the defense verdict, but in September 2009 voluntarily dismissed her appeal.  Engle  progeny trial results are included in the totals provided in  Trial Results  above .             On January 12, 2010, the plaintiff in the  J. Cohen  case
voluntarily dismissed the case with prejudice during trial after accepting PM USA s offer of judgment in the amount of $1,000.             Scott Class Action             In July 2003, following the first phase of the trial in the  Scott  class action, in which plaintiffs sought creation of a fund to pay for medical
monitoring and smoking cessation programs, a Louisiana jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants, including PM USA, in connection with plaintiffs  medical monitoring claims, but also found that plaintiffs could benefit from smoking
cessation assistance. The jury also found that cigarettes as designed are not defective but that the defendants failed to disclose all they knew about smoking and diseases and marketed their products to minors. In May 2004, in the second phase of
the trial, the jury awarded plaintiffs approximately $590 million against all defendants jointly and severally, to fund a 10-year smoking cessation program.            In June 2004, the court entered judgment, which awarded plaintiffs the approximately $590 million jury award plus prejudgment interest accruing from
the date the suit commenced. PM USA s share of the jury award and prejudgment interest has not been allocated. Defendants, including PM USA, appealed. Pursuant to a stipulation of the parties, the trial court entered an order setting the amount
of the bond at $50 million for all defendants in accordance with an article of the Louisiana Code of Civil Procedure, and a Louisiana statute (the  bond cap law ), fixing the amount of security in civil cases involving a signatory to the
MSA. Under the terms of the stipulation, plaintiffs reserve the right to contest, at a later date, the sufficiency or amount of the bond on any grounds including the applicability or constitutionality of the bond cap law. In September 2004,
defendants collectively posted a bond in the amount of $50 million.            In February 2007, the Louisiana Court of Appeal issued a ruling on defendants  appeal that, among other things: affirmed class certification but limited the scope of the class; struck certain of the categories of damages included in
the judgment, reducing the amount of the award by approximately $312 million; vacated the award of prejudgment interest, which totaled approximately $444 million as of February 15, 2007; and ruled that the only class members who are eligible to
participate in the smoking cessation program are those who began smoking before, and whose claims accrued by, September 1, 1988. As a result, the Louisiana Court of Appeal remanded the case for proceedings consistent with its opinion, including
further reduction of the amount of the award based on the size of the new class. In March 2007, the Louisiana Court of Appeal rejected defendants  motion for rehearing and clarification. In January 2008, the Louisiana Supreme Court denied
plaintiffs  and defendants  petitions for  writ of certiorari . Following the Louisiana Supreme Court s denial of defendants  petition for  writ of certiorari , PM USA recorded a provision of $26 million in connection
with the case and has recorded additional provisions of approximately $4.9 million related to accrued interest. In March 2008, plaintiffs filed a motion to execute the approximately $279 million judgment plus post-judgment interest or, in the
alternative, for an order to the parties to submit revised damages figures. Defendants filed a motion to have judgment entered in favor of defendants based on accrual of all class member claims after September 1, 1988 or, in the alternative,
for the entry of a case management order. In April 2008, the Louisiana Supreme Court denied defendants  motion to stay proceedings and the defendants filed a petition for  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court. In June
2008, the United States Supreme Court denied the defendant s petition. Plaintiffs filed a motion to enter judgment in the amount of approximately $280 million (subsequently changed to approximately $264 million) and defendants filed a motion to
enter judgment in their favor dismissing the case entirely or, alternatively,
        
   -30-   

Table of Contents  

to enter a case management order for a new trial. In July 2008, the trial court entered an Amended Judgment and Reasons for Judgment denying both motions, but ordering defendants to deposit into
the registry of the court the sum of $263,532,762 plus post-judgment interest (which is approximately $107 million as of February 19, 2010) while stating, however, that the judgment award  may be satisfied with something less than a full
cash payment now  and that the court would  favorably consider  returning unused funds annually to defendants if monies allocated for that year were not fully expended.            In September 2008, defendants filed an application for  writ of mandamus  or  supervisory writ  to secure the
right to appeal with the Louisiana Circuit Court of Appeals. The appellate court, in November 2008, granted the defendants   writ  and directed the trial court to enter an order permitting the appeal and to set the appeal bond in
accordance with Louisiana law. In December 2008, plaintiffs   supervisory writ  petition to the Louisiana Supreme Court was denied and the trial court entered an order permitting the appeal and approving a $50 million bond for all
defendants in accordance with the Louisiana bond cap law discussed above. In April 2009, plaintiffs filed a cross-appeal seeking to reinstate the June 2004 judgment and to award the medical monitoring rejected by the jury. Argument before the
Louisiana Court of Appeal, Fourth Circuit, was held in September 2009.             Smoking and Health Litigation              Overview             Plaintiffs  allegations of
liability in smoking and health cases are based on various theories of recovery, including negligence, gross negligence, strict liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, nuisance, breach of express and implied warranties,
breach of special duty, conspiracy, concert of action, violations of deceptive trade practice laws and consumer protection statutes, and claims under the federal and state anti-racketeering statutes. Plaintiffs in the smoking and health actions seek
various forms of relief, including compensatory and punitive damages, treble/multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, creation of medical monitoring and smoking cessation funds, disgorgement of profits, and injunctive and
equitable relief. Defenses raised in these cases include lack of proximate cause, assumption of the risk, comparative fault and/or contributory negligence, statutes of limitations and preemption by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act.
           In July 2008, the New York Supreme Court, Appellate
Division, First Department in  Fabiano , an individual personal injury case, held that plaintiffs  punitive damages claim was barred by the MSA (as defined below) based on principles of  res judicata  because the New York
Attorney General had already litigated the punitive damages claim on behalf of all New York residents. In August 2008, plaintiffs filed a motion for permission to appeal to the Court of Appeals. The motion was denied in November 2008.
            Smoking and Health Class Actions             Since the dismissal in May 1996 of a purported nationwide class action
brought on behalf of allegedly addicted smokers, plaintiffs have filed numerous putative smoking and health class action suits in various state and federal courts. In general, these cases purport to be brought on behalf of residents of a particular
state or states (although a few cases purport to be nationwide in scope) and raise addiction claims and, in many cases, claims of physical injury as well.            Class certification has been denied or reversed by courts in 57 smoking and health class actions involving PM USA in Arkansas (1), the District of
Columbia (2), Florida (2), Illinois (2), Iowa (1), Kansas (1), Louisiana (1), Maryland (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (1), Nevada (29), New Jersey (6),
        
   -31-   

Table of Contents  

New York (2), Ohio (1), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (1), Puerto Rico (1), South Carolina (1), Texas (1) and Wisconsin (1). A class remains certified in the  Scott  class action discussed
above.            Two purported class actions pending against PM USA
have been brought in New York ( Caronia,  filed in January 2006 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York) and Massachusetts ( Donovan , filed in December 2006 in the United States District Court for the
District of Massachusetts) on behalf of each state s respective residents who: are age 50 or older; have smoked the  Marlboro  brand for 20 pack-years or more; and have neither been diagnosed with lung cancer nor are under investigation by
a physician for suspected lung cancer. Plaintiffs in these cases seek to impose liability under various product-based causes of action and the creation of a court-supervised program providing members of the purported class Low Dose CT Scanning in
order to identify and diagnose lung cancer. Neither claim seeks punitive damages. In  Caronia , on February 11, 2010, the trial court granted in part PM USA s summary judgment motion, dismissing plaintiffs  strict liability and
negligence claims and certain other claims, granted plaintiffs leave to amend their complaint to allege a medical monitoring cause of action and requested further briefing on PM USA s summary judgment motion as to plaintiffs  implied
warranty claim and, if plaintiffs amend their complaint, their medical monitoring claim. Defendants  motions for summary judgment and judgment on the pleadings and plaintiffs  motion for class certification are pending in  Donovan .
In  Donovan , the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts heard arguments in June 2009 on the questions certified to it by the district court regarding medical monitoring and statute of limitations issues. In October 2009, the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts, in answering the questions certified to it, held that under certain circumstances state law recognizes a claim by individual smokers for medical monitoring despite the absence of an actual injury. The court also ruled that
whether or not the case is barred by the applicable statute of limitations is a factual issue to be determined by the trial court. The case has been remanded to federal court for further proceedings and is set for trial on July 5, 2010.
           In November 2008, a purported class action naming PM
USA, Altria Group, Inc. and the other major cigarette manufacturers as defendants was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia on behalf of a purported class of cigarette smokers who seek medical monitoring
( Peoples ). Plaintiffs alleged that the tobacco companies conspired to convince the National Cancer Institute ( NCI ) to not recommend spiral CT scans to screen for lung cancer and plaintiffs assert claims based on defendants 
purported violations of RICO. The complaint identified the purported class as all residents of the State of Georgia who, by virtue of their age and history of smoking cigarettes, are at increased risk for developing lung cancer; are 50 years of age
or older; have cigarette smoking histories of 20 pack-years or more; and are covered by an insurance company, Medicare, Medicaid or a third party medical payor. Plaintiffs sought relief in the form of the creation of a fund for medical monitoring
and punitive damages. In September 2009, the district judge entered judgment against plaintiffs and dismissed the case, concluding that plaintiffs failed to allege sufficient facts to state a claim for relief under RICO. The time for plaintiffs to
file an appeal in  Peoples  has expired and the case has concluded. A similar purported class action ( Jackson ) was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia in May 2009. Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA
are named as defendants. On February 9, 2010, the district court granted defendants  motions to dismiss.            In July 2009, PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. were named as defendants, along with other cigarette manufacturers, in four actions filed in various
Canadian provinces. In the Province of Saskatchewan, plaintiffs seek class certification on behalf of individuals who suffer or have suffered from various diseases including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, emphysema, heart disease or cancer.
In each of the other actions, plaintiffs seek certification of a class of all individuals who smoked defendants  cigarettes. See   Guarantees   for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI
that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products.         
   -32-   

Table of Contents  

    Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation              Overview             In health care cost recovery litigation, governmental entities and non-governmental plaintiffs seek reimbursement of
health care cost expenditures allegedly caused by tobacco products and, in some cases, of future expenditures and damages as well. Relief sought by some but not all plaintiffs includes punitive damages, multiple damages and other statutory damages
and penalties, injunctions prohibiting alleged marketing and sales to minors, disclosure of research, disgorgement of profits, funding of anti-smoking programs, additional disclosure of nicotine yields, and payment of attorney and expert witness
fees.            The claims asserted include the claim that cigarette
manufacturers were  unjustly enriched  by plaintiffs  payment of health care costs allegedly attributable to smoking, as well as claims of indemnity, negligence, strict liability, breach of express and implied warranty, violation of a
voluntary undertaking or special duty, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, conspiracy, public nuisance, claims under federal and state statutes governing consumer fraud, antitrust, deceptive trade practices and false advertising, and claims under
federal and state anti-racketeering statutes.            Defenses
raised include lack of proximate cause, remoteness of injury, failure to state a valid claim, lack of benefit, adequate remedy at law,  unclean hands  (namely, that plaintiffs cannot obtain equitable relief because they participated in,
and benefited from, the sale of cigarettes), lack of antitrust standing and injury, federal preemption, lack of statutory authority to bring suit, and statutes of limitations. In addition, defendants argue that they should be entitled to  set
off  any alleged damages to the extent the plaintiffs benefit economically from the sale of cigarettes through the receipt of excise taxes or otherwise. Defendants also argue that these cases are improper because plaintiffs must proceed under
principles of subrogation and assignment. Under traditional theories of recovery, a payor of medical costs (such as an insurer) can seek recovery of health care costs from a third party solely by  standing in the shoes  of the injured
party. Defendants argue that plaintiffs should be required to bring any actions as subrogees of individual health care recipients and should be subject to all defenses available against the injured party.            Although there have been some decisions to the contrary, most judicial
decisions have dismissed all or most health care cost recovery claims against cigarette manufacturers. Nine federal circuit courts of appeals and six state appellate courts, relying primarily on grounds that plaintiffs  claims were too remote,
have ordered or affirmed dismissals of health care cost recovery actions. The United States Supreme Court has refused to consider plaintiffs  appeals from the cases decided by five circuit courts of appeals.            In March 1999, in the first health care cost recovery case to go to trial,
an Ohio jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants on all counts. In addition, a $17.8 million verdict against defendants (including $6.8 million against PM USA) was reversed in a health care cost recovery case in New York, and all claims were
dismissed with prejudice in February 2005 ( Blue Cross/Blue Shield ). In June 2009, the trial court denied two of defendants  motions for summary judgment in a health care cost recovery case brought by the City of St. Louis, Missouri and
approximately 40 Missouri hospitals, in which PM USA, USSTC and Altria Group, Inc. are defendants. Defendants  other summary judgment motions, as well as plaintiffs  motion for summary judgment claiming collateral estoppel from the
findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see  Federal Government s Lawsuit  described below), are still pending. Trial is currently scheduled to begin no earlier than January 2011.            Individuals and associations have also sued in purported class actions or
as private attorneys general under the Medicare as Secondary Payer ( MSP ) provisions of the Social Security Act to
        
   -33-   

Table of Contents  

recover from defendants Medicare expenditures allegedly incurred for the treatment of smoking-related diseases. Cases brought in New York  (Mason )  , Florida  (Glover)  and
Massachusetts  (United Seniors Association)  have been dismissed by federal courts. In April 2008, an action,  National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, et al. v. Philip   Morris USA, et al. ( National Committee
I ),  was brought under the MSP statute in the Circuit Court of the Eleventh Judicial Circuit of and for Miami County, Florida, but was dismissed voluntarily in May 2008. The action purported to be brought on behalf of Medicare to
recover an unspecified amount of damages equal to double the amount paid by Medicare for smoking-related health care services provided from April 19, 2002 to the present.            In May 2008, an action,  National Committee to Preserve Social Security, et al. v. Philip Morris USA, et al. , was
brought under the MSP statute in United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. This action was brought by the same plaintiffs as  National Committee I  and similarly purports to be brought on behalf of Medicare to recover
an unspecified amount of damages equal to double the amount paid by Medicare for smoking-related health care services provided from May 21, 2002 to the present. In July 2008, defendants filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs  claims and
plaintiffs filed a motion for partial summary judgment. In March 2009, the court granted defendants  motion to dismiss. Plaintiffs noticed an appeal in May 2009 after the district court denied their motion for reconsideration.            In addition to the cases brought in the United States, health care cost
recovery actions have also been brought against tobacco industry participants, including PM USA, in Israel (1), the Marshall Islands (1 dismissed), and Canada (3) and other entities have stated that they are considering filing such actions. In
September 2005, in the first of the three health care recovery cases filed in Canada, the Canadian Supreme Court ruled that legislation passed in British Columbia permitting the lawsuit is constitutional, and, as a result, the case, which had
previously been dismissed by the trial court, was permitted to proceed. PM USA s and other defendants  challenge to the British Columbia court s exercise of jurisdiction was rejected by the Court of Appeals of British Columbia and, in
April 2007, the Supreme Court of Canada denied review of that decision. During 2008, the Province of New Brunswick, Canada, proclaimed into law previously adopted legislation allowing reimbursement claims to be brought against cigarette
manufacturers, and it filed suit shortly thereafter. In September 2009, the Province of Ontario, Canada, filed suit against a number of cigarette manufacturers based on previously adopted legislation nearly identical in substance to the New
Brunswick health care cost recovery legislation. PM USA is named as a defendant in the British Columbia case, while Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA are named as defendants in the New Brunswick and Ontario cases. Several other provinces in Canada have
enacted similar legislation or are in the process of enacting similar legislation. See   Guarantees   for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain
liabilities concerning tobacco products.             Settlements of Health Care Cost
Recovery Litigation             In November 1998, PM USA and
certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers entered into the MSA with 46 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa and the Northern Marianas to settle asserted and unasserted
health care cost recovery and other claims. PM USA and certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (together with the MSA, the  State
Settlement Agreements ). The State Settlement Agreements require that the original participating manufacturers make substantial annual payments of approximately $9.4 billion each year (excluding future annual payments, if any, under the
National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust discussed below), subject to adjustments for several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume. In addition, the original participating manufacturers are required to pay settling
plaintiffs  attorneys  fees, subject to an annual cap of $500 million. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the aggregate amount
        
   -34-   

Table of Contents  

recorded in cost of sales with respect to the State Settlement Agreements and the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ( FETRA ) was approximately $5.0 billion and $5.5
billion, respectively.            The State Settlement Agreements also
include provisions relating to advertising and marketing restrictions, public disclosure of certain industry documents, limitations on challenges to certain tobacco control and underage use laws, restrictions on lobbying activities and other
provisions.             Possible Adjustments in MSA Payments for 2003 to 2008  
           Pursuant to the provisions of the MSA, domestic tobacco
product manufacturers, including PM USA, who are original signatories to the MSA (the  Original Participating Manufacturers  or  OPMs ) are participating in proceedings that may result in downward adjustments to the amounts paid
by the OPMs and the other MSA-participating manufacturers to the states and territories that are parties to the MSA for each of the years 2003 to 2008. The proceedings relate to an MSA payment adjustment (the  NPM Adjustment ) based on the
collective loss of market share for the relevant year by all participating manufacturers who are subject to the payment obligations and marketing restrictions of the MSA to non-participating manufacturers ( NPMs ) who are not subject to
such obligations and restrictions.            As part of these
proceedings, an independent economic consulting firm jointly selected by the MSA parties or otherwise selected pursuant to the MSA s provisions is required to determine whether the disadvantages of the MSA were a  significant factor 
contributing to the collective loss of market share for the year in question. If the firm determines that the disadvantages of the MSA were such a  significant factor,  each state may avoid a downward adjustment to its share of the
participating manufacturers  annual payments for that year by establishing that it diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute during the entirety of that year. Any potential downward adjustment would then be reallocated to any states that
do not establish such diligent enforcement. PM USA believes that the MSA s arbitration clause requires a state to submit its claim to have diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute to binding arbitration before a panel of three former
federal judges in the manner provided for in the MSA. A number of states have taken the position that this claim should be decided in state court on a state-by-state basis.            In March 2006, an independent economic consulting firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant
factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2003. In February 2007, this same firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating
manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2004. In February 2008, the same economic consulting firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers 
collective loss of market share for the year 2005. A different economic consulting firm was selected to make the  significant factor  determination regarding the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the
year 2006. In March 2009, this firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2006. Following the firm s
determination for 2006, the OPMs and the states agreed that the states will not contest that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the years
2007 and 2008 (and 2009, if the participating manufacturers collectively sustain a sufficient loss of market share for that year as well). Accordingly, the OPMs and the states have agreed that no  significant factor  determination by the
firm will be necessary with respect to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the years 2007, 2008 and 2009.            Following the economic consulting firm s determination with respect to 2003, thirty-eight states filed declaratory judgment actions in state
courts seeking a declaration that the state diligently enforced its escrow statute during 2003. The OPMs and other MSA-participating manufacturers responded to
        
   -35-   

Table of Contents  

these actions by filing motions to compel arbitration in accordance with the terms of the MSA, including filing motions to compel arbitration in eleven MSA states and territories that did not
file declaratory judgment actions. Courts in all but one of the forty-six MSA states and the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico have ruled that the question of whether a state diligently enforced its escrow statute during 2003 is subject to
arbitration. One state court has ruled that the diligent enforcement claims of that state may be litigated in state court, rather than in arbitration. Several of these rulings may be subject to further review. PM USA, the other OPMs and
approximately twenty-five other MSA-participating manufacturers have entered into an agreement regarding arbitration with over forty MSA states concerning the 2003 NPM Adjustment, including the states  claims of diligent enforcement for 2003.
The selection of the arbitration panel for the 2003 NPM Adjustment is currently underway. The agreement further provides for a partial liability reduction for the 2003 NPM Adjustment for states that entered into the agreement by January 30,
2009 and are determined in the arbitration not to have diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute during 2003. Based on the number of states that entered into the agreement by January 30, 2009 (forty-five), the partial liability reduction
for those states is 20%. The partial liability reduction would reduce the amount of PM USA s 2003 NPM Adjustment by up to a corresponding percentage. Proceedings to determine state diligent enforcement claims for the years 2004 through 2008
have not yet been scheduled.            The availability and the
precise amount of any NPM Adjustment for 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 will not be finally determined until late 2010 or thereafter. There is no certainty that the OPMs and other MSA-participating manufacturers will ultimately receive any
adjustment as a result of these proceedings. If the OPMs do receive such an adjustment through these proceedings, the adjustment would be allocated among the OPMs pursuant to the MSA s provisions, and PM USA s share would likely be applied
as a credit against future MSA payments.             National Grower Settlement
Trust             As part of the MSA, the settling defendants
committed to work cooperatively with the tobacco-growing states to address concerns about the potential adverse economic impact of the MSA on tobacco growers and quota holders. To that end, in 1999, four of the major domestic tobacco product
manufacturers, including PM USA, established the National Tobacco Growers Settlement Trust ( NTGST ), a trust fund to provide aid to tobacco growers and quota holders. The NTGST was to be funded by these four manufacturers over 12 years
with payments, subject to application of various adjustments, scheduled to total $5.15 billion. Provisions of the NTGST allowed for offsets to the extent that industry-funded payments were made for the benefit of growers or quota holders as part of
a legislated end to the federal tobacco quota and price support program.            In October 2004, FETRA was signed into law. FETRA provides for the elimination of the federal tobacco quota and price support program through an industry-funded buy-out of tobacco growers and quota holders. The
cost of the buy-out, which is estimated at approximately $9.5 billion, is being paid over 10 years by manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and
importers of each kind of tobacco product. The quota buy-out payments offset already scheduled payments to the NTGST. In addition to the approximately $9.5 billion cost of the buy-out, FETRA also obligated manufacturers and importers of tobacco
products to cover any losses (up to $500 million) that the government incurred on the disposition of tobacco pool stock accumulated under the previous tobacco price support program. PM USA, Middleton and USSTC are subject to the requirements of
FETRA. Altria Group, Inc. does not currently anticipate that the quota buy-out will have a material adverse impact on its consolidated results in 2009 and beyond.            Two of the grower states, Maryland and Pennsylvania, filed claims in the North Carolina state courts, asserting that the
companies which established the NTGST (including PM USA) must continue making payments under the NTGST through 2010 for the benefit of Maryland and Pennsylvania
        
   -36-   

Table of Contents  

growers (such continuing payments would represent slightly more than one percent of the originally scheduled payments that would have been due to the NTGST for the years 2005 through 2010)
notwithstanding the offsets resulting from the FETRA payments. The North Carolina trial court held in favor of Maryland and Pennsylvania, and the companies (including PM USA) appealed. The North Carolina Court of Appeals, in December 2008, reversed
the trial court ruling and entered summary judgment in favor of the companies. In January 2009, Maryland and Pennsylvania filed a notice of appeal to the North Carolina Supreme Court. On November 6, 2009, the North Carolina Supreme Court upheld
the decision of the North Carolina Court of Appeals, ruling in favor of PM USA and the other companies. The period for filing an appeal has elapsed, concluding this litigation.             Other MSA-Related Litigation             PM USA was named as a defendant in an action brought in October 2008 in federal court in Kentucky by an MSA participating manufacturer that is not an
OPM. Other defendants include various other participating manufacturers and the Attorneys General of all 52 states and territories that are parties to the MSA. The plaintiff alleged that certain of the MSA s payment provisions discriminate
against it in favor of certain other participating manufacturers in violation of the federal antitrust laws and the United States Constitution. The plaintiff also sought injunctive relief, alteration of certain MSA payment provisions as
applied to it, treble damages under the federal antitrust laws, and/or rescission of its joinder in the MSA. The plaintiff also filed a motion for a preliminary injunction enjoining the states from enforcing the allegedly discriminatory payment
provisions against it during the pendency of the action. In January 2009, the district court dismissed the complaint and denied plaintiff s request for preliminary injunctive relief. On January 5, 2010, the court entered final judgment
dismissing the case. On January 13, 2010, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.            In December 2008, PM USA was named as a defendant in an action seeking declaratory relief under the MSA. The action was filed in California state court
by the same MSA participating manufacturer that filed the Kentucky action discussed in the preceding paragraph. Other defendants included the State of California and various other participating manufacturers. The plaintiff sought a declaratory
judgment that its proposed amended adherence agreement with California and other states that are parties to the MSA was consistent with provisions in the MSA, and that the MSA s limited most favored nations provision does not apply to the
proposed agreement. Plaintiff sought no damages in this action. In July 2009, the court granted defendants  motion for summary judgment and subsequently entered final judgment in favor of defendants on all claims asserted by plaintiff.
Plaintiff then filed an appeal. The State of California informed the plaintiff and the appeals court on November 17, 2009 that it no longer intends to enter into the amended adherence agreement with the plaintiff. As a result, on
December 23, 2009, the participating manufacturer defendants, including PM USA, filed a motion to dismiss the appeal as moot. On January 14, 2010, plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the appeal, concluding the litigation.            Without naming PM USA or any other private party as a defendant, NPMs
and/or their distributors or customers have filed several legal challenges to the MSA and related legislation. New York state officials are defendants in a lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in
which cigarette importers allege that the MSA and/or related legislation violates federal antitrust laws and the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution. In a separate proceeding pending in the same court, plaintiffs assert the same
theories against not only New York officials but also the Attorneys General for thirty other states. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has held that the allegations in both actions, if proven, establish a basis for relief on
antitrust and Commerce Clause grounds and that the trial courts in New York have personal jurisdiction sufficient to enjoin other states  officials from enforcing their MSA-related legislation. On remand in those two actions, one trial court
has granted summary judgment for the New York officials and lifted a
        
   -37-   

Table of Contents  

preliminary injunction against New York officials  enforcement against plaintiffs of the state s  allocable share  amendment to the MSA s Model Escrow Statute; the other
trial court has held that plaintiffs are unlikely to succeed on the merits. The former decision is on appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.       
     In another action, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed a trial court s dismissal of challenges to
MSA-related legislation in Louisiana under the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution. On remand in that case, and in another case filed against the Louisiana Attorney General, trial courts have granted summary judgment
for the Louisiana Attorney General. Both of those decisions are on appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.            The United States Courts of Appeals for the Sixth, Eighth, Ninth and Tenth Circuits have affirmed dismissals or grants of summary judgment in favor of
state officials in four other cases asserting antitrust and constitutional challenges to the allocable share amendment legislation in those states. On December 30, 2009, the plaintiff in the Eighth Circuit case filed a petition for
 certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court.            Another proceeding has been initiated before an international arbitration tribunal under the provisions of the North American Free Trade Agreement. A hearing on the merits concluded on February 14, 2010.             Federal Government s Lawsuit             In 1999, the United States government filed a lawsuit in the United
States District Court for the District of Columbia against various cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA, and others, including Altria Group, Inc. asserting claims under three federal statutes, namely the Medical Care Recovery Act
( MCRA ), the MSP provisions of the Social Security Act and the civil provisions of RICO. Trial of the case ended in June 2005. The lawsuit sought to recover an unspecified amount of health care costs for tobacco-related illnesses
allegedly caused by defendants  fraudulent and tortious conduct and paid for by the government under various federal health care programs, including Medicare, military and veterans  health benefits programs, and the Federal Employees
Health Benefits Program. The complaint alleged that such costs total more than $20 billion annually. It also sought what it alleged to be equitable and declaratory relief, including disgorgement of profits which arose from defendants  allegedly
tortious conduct, an injunction prohibiting certain actions by the defendants, and a declaration that the defendants are liable for the federal government s future costs of providing health care resulting from defendants  alleged past
tortious and wrongful conduct. In September 2000, the trial court dismissed the government s MCRA and MSP claims, but permitted discovery to proceed on the government s claims for relief under the civil provisions of RICO.            The government alleged that disgorgement by defendants of approximately
$280 billion is an appropriate remedy. In May 2004, the trial court issued an order denying defendants  motion for partial summary judgment limiting the disgorgement remedy. In February 2005, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia Circuit held that disgorgement is not a remedy available to the government under the civil provisions of RICO and entered summary judgment in favor of defendants with respect to the disgorgement claim. In April 2005, the
Court of Appeals denied the government s motion for rehearing. In July 2005, the government petitioned the United States Supreme Court for further review of the Court of Appeals  ruling that disgorgement is not an available remedy, and in
October 2005, the Supreme Court denied the petition.            In
June 2005, the government filed with the trial court its proposed final judgment seeking remedies of approximately $14 billion, including $10 billion over a five-year period to fund a national
        
   -38-   

Table of Contents  

smoking cessation program and $4 billion over a ten-year period to fund a public education and counter-marketing campaign. Further, the government s proposed remedy would have required
defendants to pay additional monies to these programs if targeted reductions in the smoking rate of those under 21 are not achieved according to a prescribed timetable. The government s proposed remedies also included a series of measures and
restrictions applicable to cigarette business operations including, but not limited to, restrictions on advertising and marketing, potential measures with respect to certain price promotional activities and research and development, disclosure
requirements for certain confidential data and implementation of a monitoring system with potential broad powers over cigarette operations.            In August 2006, the federal trial court entered judgment in favor of the government. The court held that certain defendants, including Altria Group,
Inc. and PM USA, violated RICO and engaged in 7 of the 8  sub-schemes  to defraud that the government had alleged. Specifically, the court found that:         

defendants falsely denied, distorted and minimized the significant adverse health consequences of smoking;            

defendants hid from the public that cigarette smoking and nicotine are addictive;            

defendants falsely denied that they control the level of nicotine delivered to create and sustain addiction;            

defendants falsely marketed and promoted  low tar/light  cigarettes as less harmful than full-flavor cigarettes;            

defendants falsely denied that they intentionally marketed to youth;            

defendants publicly and falsely denied that ETS is hazardous to non-smokers; and            

defendants suppressed scientific research.               The court did not impose monetary penalties on the defendants, but ordered the following relief: (i) an injunction against  committing any
act of racketeering  relating to the manufacturing, marketing, promotion, health consequences or sale of cigarettes in the United States; (ii) an injunction against participating directly or indirectly in the management or control of the
Council for Tobacco Research, the Tobacco Institute, or the Center for Indoor Air Research, or any successor or affiliated entities of each; (iii) an injunction against  making, or causing to be made in any way, any material false,
misleading, or deceptive statement or representation or engaging in any public relations or marketing endeavor that is disseminated to the United States public and that misrepresents or suppresses information concerning cigarettes 
(iv) an injunction against conveying any express or implied health message through use of descriptors on cigarette packaging or in cigarette advertising or promotional material, including  lights,   ultra lights  and
 low tar,  which the court found could cause consumers to believe one cigarette brand is less hazardous than another brand; (v) the issuance of  corrective statements  in various media regarding the adverse health effects of
smoking, the addictiveness of smoking and nicotine, the lack of any significant health benefit from smoking  low tar  or  light  cigarettes, defendants  manipulation of cigarette design to ensure optimum nicotine delivery
and the adverse health effects of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke; (vi) the disclosure on defendants  public document websites and in the Minnesota document repository of all documents produced to the government in the lawsuit or
produced in any future court or administrative action concerning smoking and health until 2021, with certain additional requirements as to documents withheld from production under a claim of privilege or confidentiality; (vii) the disclosure of
disaggregated marketing data to the government in the same form and on the same schedule as defendants now follow in disclosing such data to the FTC for a period of ten years; (viii) certain restrictions on the sale or transfer by defendants of
any cigarette brands, brand names, formulas or cigarette businesses within the United States; and (ix) payment of the government s costs in bringing the action.       
  
   -39-   

Table of Contents  

   In September 2006, defendants filed notices of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit and in October 2006, a three judge panel of the Court of Appeals stayed the trial court s judgment pending its review of the decision. Certain defendants, including PM USA and Altria Group, Inc., filed a motion to
clarify the trial court s August 2006 Final Judgment and Remedial Order. In March 2007, the trial court denied in part and granted in part defendants  post-trial motion for clarification of portions of the court s remedial order.
           In May 2009, a three-judge panel of the Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia Circuit issued a  per curiam  decision largely affirming the trial court s judgment against defendants and in favor of the government. Although the panel largely affirmed the remedial order that was issued by
the trial court, it vacated the following aspects of the order:         

its application to defendants  subsidiaries;            

the prohibition on the use of express or implied health messages or health descriptors, but only to the extent of extraterritorial application;

its point-of-sale display provisions; and            

its application to Brown   Williamson Holdings.               The Court of Appeals panel remanded the case for the trial court to reconsider these four aspects of the injunction and
to reformulate its remedial order accordingly.            Furthermore,
the Court of Appeals panel rejected all of the government s and intervenor s cross appeal arguments and refused to broaden the remedial order entered by the trial court. The Court of Appeals panel also left undisturbed its prior holding
that the government cannot obtain disgorgement as a permissible remedy under RICO.            In July 2009, defendants filed petitions for a rehearing before the panel and for a rehearing by the entire Court of Appeals. Defendants also filed a motion to vacate portions of the trial court s judgment on
the grounds of mootness because of the passage of legislation granting FDA broad authority over the regulation of tobacco products. In September 2009, the Court of Appeals entered three  per curiam  rulings. Two of them denied defendants 
petitions for panel rehearing or for rehearing  en banc . In the third  per curiam  decision, the Court of Appeals denied defendants  suggestion of mootness and motion for partial  vacatur . In September 2009, defendants
petitioned the Court of Appeals to issue a stay of its mandate pending the filing and disposition of petitions for  writs of certiorari  to the United States Supreme Court. In October 2009, the Court of Appeals granted the motion in part,
staying the issuance of the mandate until December 28, 2009. On December 11, 2009, the Court of Appeals extended the stay of the mandate through the Supreme Court s final disposition of defendants   certiorari  petitions. On
February 19, 2010, PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. filed their  certiorari  petitions with the United States Supreme Court. In addition, the federal government filed its own  certiorari  petition, asking the court to reverse an earlier Court
of Appeals decision and hold that civil RICO allows the trial court to order disgorgement as well as other equitable relief, such as smoking cessation remedies, designed to redress continuing consequences of prior RICO violations. The trial
court s judgment and remedial orders remain stayed.              Lights/Ultra Lights  Cases              Overview
            Plaintiffs in certain pending matters seek
certification of their cases as class actions and allege, among other things, that the uses of the terms  Lights  and/or  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud, or RICO violations, and
seek injunctive and equitable relief, including restitution and, in certain cases, punitive damages. These class actions have been brought against PM USA and, in certain instances, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries, on behalf of individuals who
purchased and consumed various brands of cigarettes, including  Marlboro Lights, Marlboro Ultra   Lights, Virginia Slims Lights  and  Superslims, Merit Lights  and  Cambridge Lights.  Defenses raised in
        
   -40-   

Table of Contents  

these cases include lack of misrepresentation, lack of causation, injury, and damages, the statute of limitations, express preemption by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act
( FCLAA ) and implied preemption by the policies and directives of the Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ), non-liability under state statutory provisions exempting conduct that complies with federal regulatory directives, and the
First Amendment. As of February 19, 2010, a total of twenty-eight such cases were pending in the United States. Thirteen of these cases were pending in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in a single U.S. federal court. One of the cases is
pending in federal court but is not part of the multidistrict litigation proceedings. The other fourteen cases were pending in various U.S. state courts. In addition, a purported  Lights  class action is pending against PM USA in Israel.
Other entities have stated that they are considering filing such actions against Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA.             The Good Case             In May 2006, a federal trial court in Maine granted PM USA s motion for summary judgment in  Good , a purported  Lights  class
action, on the grounds that plaintiffs  claims are preempted by the FCLAA and dismissed the case. In August 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit vacated the district court s grant of PM USA s motion for
summary judgment on federal preemption grounds and remanded the case to district court. The district court stayed the case pending the United States Supreme Court s ruling on defendants  petition for  writ of certiorari  with the
United States Supreme Court, which was granted in January 2008. The case was stayed pending the United States Supreme Court s decision. In December 2008, the United States Supreme Court ruled that plaintiffs  claims are not
barred by federal preemption. Although the Court rejected the argument that the FTC s actions were so extensive with respect to the descriptors that the state law claims were barred as a matter of federal law, the Court s decision was
limited: it did not address the ultimate merits of plaintiffs  claim, the viability of the action as a class action, or other state law issues. The case has been returned to the federal court in Maine for further proceedings and has been
consolidated with other federal cases in the multidistrict litigation proceeding discussed below.             Certain Developments Since December 2008 Good Decision             Since the December 2008 U.S. Supreme Court decision in  Good , and through February 19, 2010, twenty-one  Lights  class actions
were served upon PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. These twenty-one cases were filed in 13 states and the District of Columbia. All of these cases either were filed in federal court or were removed to federal court by PM USA.            In April 2009, a petition was filed with the Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation ( JPMDL ) to transfer and consolidate pretrial proceedings in a number of  Lights  class actions. In September 2009, the JPMDL granted this motion and ordered that eight  Lights  cases be
transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of Maine for pretrial proceedings ( MDL proceeding ). Since the September 2009 order was entered, the JPMDL has transferred additional cases to the MDL proceeding .  Plaintiffs
in some of these cases chose to dismiss their cases following the transfer to the MDL proceedings. As of February 19, 2010, thirteen cases against Altria Group, Inc. and/or PM USA were pending in or awaiting transfer to the MDL proceeding.
These cases, and the states in which each originated, are:  Biundo  (Illinois),  Corse  (Tennessee),  Domaingue  (New York),  Good  (Maine),  Haubrich  (Pennsylvania),  Mirick  (Mississippi),  Mulford  (New
Mexico),  Parsons  (District of Columbia),  Slater  (the District of Columbia),  Tang  (New York),  Tyrer  (California),  Williams  (Arkansas) and  Wyatt  (formerly  Nikolic ) (Wisconsin).            The cases voluntarily dismissed without prejudice by plaintiffs from the
MDL proceeding as of February 19, 2010 are:  Alcorn  (Tennessee),  Boyd  (Florida),  Fray  (Colorado),  Gisick  (Kansas),  Hanson 
        
   -41-   

Table of Contents  

(Texas),  LeBoeuf  (Louisiana),  Moos  (Kansas),  Newman  (Louisiana),  Robinson  (Louisiana),  Rosenthal  (Florida),  Salazar  (Texas) and  Weber
 (Pennsylvania).            On November 20, 2009, plaintiffs
in the MDL proceeding filed a motion seeking collateral estoppel effect from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see  Federal Government s Lawsuit  described above). On January 22, 2010, PM USA filed a
motion for summary judgment regarding plaintiffs  claims for purchases made after December 1, 2002.            The September 2009 consolidation order by the JPMDL denied the application as to three cases ( Cleary, Caronia  and  Schwab ).              Lights  Cases Dismissed, Not Certified or Ordered De-Certified
            To date, 13 courts in 14  Lights  cases have
refused to certify class actions, dismissed class action allegations, reversed prior class certification decisions or have entered judgment in favor of PM USA.         
  Trial courts in Arizona, Kansas, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon, Tennessee and Washington have refused to grant class certification or have
dismissed plaintiffs  class action allegations. Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed a case in Michigan after a trial court dismissed the claims plaintiffs asserted under the Michigan Unfair Trade and Consumer Protection Act.            Several appellate courts have issued rulings that either affirmed rulings
in favor of Altria Group, Inc. and/or PM USA or reversed rulings entered in favor of plaintiffs. In Florida, an intermediate appellate court overturned an order by a trial court that granted class certification in  Hines . The Florida Supreme
Court denied review in January 2008. The Supreme Court of Illinois has overturned a judgment that awarded damages to a certified class in the  Price  case. See  The Price Case  below for further discussion. In Louisiana, the United States
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit dismissed a purported  Lights  class action brought in Louisiana federal court ( Sullivan)  on the grounds that plaintiffs  claims were preempted by the FCLAA. In New York, the United States
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit overturned a decision by a New York trial court in  Schwab  that denied defendants  summary judgment motions and granted plaintiffs  motion for certification of a nationwide class of all United
States residents that purchased cigarettes in the United States that were labeled  Light  or  Lights.  In Ohio, the Ohio Supreme Court overturned class certifications in the  Marrone  and  Phillips  cases. Plaintiffs
voluntarily dismissed both cases in August 2009. In Oregon ( Pearson ), a state court denied plaintiff s motion for interlocutory review of the trial court s refusal to certify a class. In February 2007, PM USA filed a motion for
summary judgment based on federal preemption and the Oregon statutory exemption. In September 2007, the district court granted PM USA s motion based on express preemption under the FCLAA, and plaintiffs appealed this dismissal and the class
certification denial to the Oregon Court of Appeals. Argument is set to be held on April 9, 2010. The Supreme Court of Washington denied a motion for interlocutory review filed by the plaintiffs in the  Davies  case that sought review of
an order by the trial court that refused to certify a class. Plaintiffs subsequently voluntarily dismissed the  Davies  case with prejudice. Plaintiffs in the New Mexico case ( Mulford ) renewed their motion for class certification, which
motion was denied by the federal district court in March 2009, with leave to file a new motion for class certification.             Other Developments             In  Cleary,  which is pending in an Illinois federal court, the district court dismissed plaintiffs   Lights  claims against one
defendant and denied plaintiffs  request to remand the case to state court. In September 2009, the court issued its ruling on PM USA s and the remaining defendants  motion for summary judgment as to all  Lights  claims.
The court granted the motion as to all defendants except
        
   -42-   

Table of Contents  

PM USA. As to PM USA, the court granted the motion as to all  Lights  and other low tar brands other than  Marlboro Lights . As to  Marlboro Lights , the court ordered
briefing on why the 2002 state court order dismissing the  Marlboro Lights  claims should not be vacated based upon  Good . On January 13, 2010, the court vacated the previous dismissal. On February 1, 2010, the court granted
summary judgment in favor of defendants as to all claims except for the  Marlboro Lights  claims, based on the statute of limitations and deficiencies relating to the named plaintiffs. With respect to plaintiffs  addiction claims, the
court gave plaintiffs until March 18, 2010 to propose a new class representative. On February 23, 2010, the court denied plaintiffs  motion for class certification of all three proposed classes. The court gave plaintiffs leave to
reinstate their motion as to one proposed class if plaintiffs identified a new class representative by March 18, 2010.           On December 4, 2009, the state trial court in the  Holmes  case (pending in Delaware), denied PM USA s motion for summary judgment based
on an exemption provision in the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act.             The Price
Case             Trial in the  Price  case commenced in state
court in Illinois in January 2003, and in March 2003, the judge found in favor of the plaintiff class and awarded $7.1 billion in compensatory damages and $3 billion in punitive damages against PM USA. In connection with the judgment, PM USA
deposited into escrow various forms of collateral, including cash and negotiable instruments. In December 2005, the Illinois Supreme Court issued its judgment, reversing the trial court s judgment in favor of the plaintiffs and directing the
trial court to dismiss the case. In May 2006, the Illinois Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  motion for re-hearing, in November 2006, the United States Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  petition for  writ of certiorari  and, in December
2006, the Circuit Court of Madison County enforced the Illinois Supreme Court s mandate and dismissed the case with prejudice. In January 2007, plaintiffs filed a motion to vacate or withhold judgment based upon the United States Supreme
Court s grant of the petition for  writ of certiorari  in  Watson  (described below). In May 2007, PM USA filed applications for a  writ of mandamus  or a supervisory order with the Illinois Supreme Court seeking an order
compelling the lower courts to deny plaintiffs  motion to vacate and/or withhold judgment. In August 2007, the Illinois Supreme Court granted PM USA s motion for supervisory order and the trial court dismissed plaintiff s motion to
vacate or withhold judgment. The collateral that PM USA deposited into escrow after the initial 2003 judgment has since been released and returned to PM USA.            In December 2008, plaintiffs filed with the trial court a petition for relief from the final judgment that was entered in favor of PM USA.
Specifically, plaintiffs sought to vacate the 2005 Illinois Supreme Court judgment, contending that the United States Supreme Court s December 2008 decision in  Good  demonstrated that the Illinois Supreme Court s decision was
 inaccurate.  PM USA filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs  petition and, in February 2009, the trial court granted PM USA s motion. In March 2009, the  Price  plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal with the Fifth Judicial
District of the Appellate Court of Illinois. Argument was held on February 2, 2010.            In June 2009, the plaintiff in an individual smoker lawsuit  (Kelly)  brought on behalf of an alleged smoker of  Lights  cigarettes in Madison County, Illinois state court filed a motion seeking a
declaration that (1) his claims under the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act are not barred by the exemption in that statute based on his assertion that the Illinois Supreme Court s decision in  Price  is no longer good law in light of the
decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court in  Good  and  Watson , and (2) their claims are not preempted in light of the U.S. Supreme Court s decision in  Good . In September 2009, the court granted plaintiff s motion as to
federal preemption, but denied it with respect to the state statutory exemption.         
   -43-   

Table of Contents  

    Trial Court Class Certifications        
     Trial courts have certified classes against PM USA in Massachusetts ( Aspinall ), Minnesota ( Curtis ), and Missouri
( Craft ). PM USA has appealed or otherwise challenged these class certification orders. Significant developments in these cases include:         

Aspinall:  In August 2004, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court affirmed the class certification order. In August 2006, the trial court denied PM
USA s motion for summary judgment and granted plaintiffs  motion for summary judgment on the defenses of federal preemption and a state law exemption to Massachusetts  consumer protection statute. On motion of the parties, the trial
court subsequently reported its decision to deny summary judgment to the appeals court for review and stayed further proceedings pending completion of the appellate review. In December 2008, subsequent to the United States Supreme Court s
decision in  Good , the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court issued an order requesting that the parties advise the court within 30 days whether the  Good  decision is dispositive of federal preemption issues pending on appeal. In January
2009, PM USA notified the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court that  Good  is dispositive of the federal preemption issues on appeal, but requested further briefing on the state law statutory exemption issue. In March 2009, the Massachusetts
Supreme Judicial Court affirmed the order denying summary judgment to PM USA and granting the plaintiffs  cross-motion. On January 15, 2010, plaintiffs moved for partial summary judgment as to liability claiming collateral estoppel from
the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see  Federal Government s Lawsuit  described above).            

Curtis:  In April 2005, the Minnesota Supreme Court denied PM USA s petition for interlocutory review of the trial court s class
certification order. In October 2009, the trial court denied plaintiffs  motion for partial summary judgment, filed in February 2009, claiming collateral estoppel from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see
Federal Government s Lawsuit described above). In October 2009, the trial court granted PM USA s motion for partial summary judgment, filed in August 2009, as to all consumer protection counts and, on December 4, 2009, dismissed
the case in its entirety. Plaintiffs have appealed.            

Craft:  In August 2005, a Missouri Court of Appeals affirmed the class certification order. On December 17, 2009, the trial court denied
plaintiff s motion for reconsideration of the period during which potential class members can qualify to become part of the class. The class period remains 1995   2003. The court set a trial date for January 2011. On January 27, 2010,
PMUSA filed a motion for partial summary judgment regarding plaintiffs  request for punitive damages.               In addition to these cases, in June 2007, the United States Supreme Court reversed the lower court rulings in the  Watson  case that denied
plaintiffs  motion to have the case heard in a state, as opposed to federal, trial court. The Supreme Court rejected defendant s contention that the case must be tried in federal court under the  federal officer  statute. The
case has been remanded to the state trial court in Arkansas.            In the  Miner  case, which is pending in a state court in Arkansas, plaintiffs in August 2007 renewed their motion for certification of a class composed of individuals who purchased Marlboro Lights or Cambridge Lights brands in
Arkansas. In October 2007, the court denied PM USA s motion to dismiss on procedural grounds and the court entered a case management order.         
   -44-   

Table of Contents  

    Certain Other Tobacco-Related Litigation               Tobacco Price Cases :  As of February 19, 2010, two
separate cases were pending, one in Kansas and one in New Mexico, in which plaintiffs allege that defendants, including PM USA, conspired to fix cigarette prices in violation of antitrust laws. Altria Group, Inc. is a defendant in the case in
Kansas. Plaintiffs  motions for class certification have been granted in both cases. In June 2006, defendants  motion for summary judgment was granted in the New Mexico case. In November 2008, the New Mexico Court of Appeals reversed
the trial court decision granting summary judgment as to certain defendants, including PM USA. In February 2009, the New Mexico Supreme Court granted the petition for  writ of certiorari  filed by PM USA and other defendants. Argument was held
on February 22, 2010    . The case in Kansas is pending; there is no trial date.              Cases Under the California Business and Professions Code :  In June 1997, a lawsuit ( Brown)  was filed in California state court
alleging that domestic cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA and others, have violated California Business and Professions Code Sections 17200 and 17500 regarding unfair, unlawful and fraudulent business practices. Class certification was
granted as to plaintiffs  claims that class members are entitled to reimbursement of the costs of cigarettes purchased during the class periods and injunctive relief. In September 2004, the trial court granted defendants  motion for
summary judgment as to plaintiffs  claims attacking defendants  cigarette advertising and promotion and denied defendants  motion for summary judgment on plaintiffs  claims based on allegedly false affirmative statements.
Plaintiffs  motion for rehearing was denied. In March 2005, the court granted defendants  motion to decertify the class based on a California law, which  inter alia  limits the ability to bring a lawsuit to only those plaintiffs who
have  suffered injury in fact  and  lost money or property  as a result of defendant s alleged statutory violations ( Proposition 64 ). In two July 2006 opinions, the California Supreme Court held Proposition 64
applicable to pending cases (the  Proposition 64 Cases ). Plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration of the order that decertified the class was denied, and plaintiffs appealed. In September 2006, an intermediate appellate court affirmed
the trial court s order decertifying the class. In May 2009, the California Supreme Court reversed the trial court decision that was affirmed by the appellate court and remanded the case to the trial court. Defendants filed a rehearing petition
in June 2009. In August 2009, the California Supreme Court denied defendants  rehearing petition and issued its mandate. In October 2009, the trial court began review of the question whether it should reconsider its September 2004 order
granting partial summary judgment to defendants with respect to plaintiffs   Lights  claims on the basis of judicial decisions issued since its order was issued, including the United States Supreme Court s ruling in  Good .
A hearing is scheduled for March 11, 2010.            In May 2004, a
lawsuit  (Gurevitch)  was filed in California state court on behalf of a purported class of all California residents who purchased the  Merit  brand of cigarettes since July 2000 to the present alleging that defendants, including PM USA,
violated California s Business and Professions Code Sections 17200 and 17500 regarding unfair, unlawful and fraudulent business practices, including false and misleading advertising. The complaint also alleges violations of California s
Consumer Legal Remedies Act. Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief, disgorgement, restitution, and attorneys  fees. In July 2005, defendants  motion to dismiss was granted; however, plaintiffs  motion for leave to amend the complaint was
also granted, and plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in September 2005. In October 2005, the court stayed this action pending the California Supreme Court s rulings in the Proposition 64 Cases. In September 2006, the stay was lifted and
defendants filed their demurrer to plaintiffs  amended complaint. In March 2007, the court, without ruling on the demurrer, again stayed the action pending rulings from the California Supreme Court in another case involving Proposition 64
( Brown,  described above) that is relevant to PM USA s demurrer. After the California Supreme Court s decision in  Brown,  the case reactivated and in August 2009, PM USA filed its demurrer to plaintiffs  amended complaint.
On November 29, 2009, the court sustained PM USA s demurrer to all of plaintiffs  claims, dismissing the case in its entirety. The period for filing an appeal has expired, concluding this litigation.         
   -45-   

Table of Contents  

     Ignition Propensity Cases  : PM USA is currently a defendant in six wrongful
death actions in which plaintiffs contend that fires caused by cigarettes led to other individuals  deaths. In one case pending in federal court in Massachusetts ( Sarro ), the district court in August 2009 granted in part PM
USA s motion to dismiss, but ruled that two claims unrelated to product design could go forward. On January 13, 2010, plaintiff filed a motion for reconsideration or to certify questions to the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court. In a
Kentucky federal court case ( Walker ), the court dismissed plaintiffs  claims in February 2009 and plaintiffs subsequently filed a notice of appeal. The appeal is pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit. The four remaining actions are  Green  and  Hallmark  (each filed in April 2009 in Alabama state court),  Kerr  (filed in Mississippi state court in February 2009 and removed by PM USA to Mississippi federal court in
July 2009) and  Villarreal  (filed in Texas state court in July 2009 against Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA and removed by PM USA to federal court in August 2009). In  Villarreal , plaintiff s motion to remand to state court was
granted on January 29, 2010.             UST Litigation  
             Types of Cases              Claims related to smokeless tobacco products generally fall within the
following categories:            First, UST and/or its tobacco
subsidiaries has been named in certain health care cost reimbursement/third-party recoupment/class action litigation against the major domestic cigarette companies and others seeking damages and other relief. The complaints in these cases on their
face predominantly relate to the usage of cigarettes; within that context, certain complaints contain a few allegations relating specifically to smokeless tobacco products. These actions are in varying stages of pretrial activities.            Second, UST and/or its tobacco subsidiaries has been named in certain
actions in West Virginia brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs against cigarette manufacturers, smokeless tobacco manufacturers, and other organizations seeking damages and other relief in connection with injuries allegedly sustained as a
result of tobacco usage, including smokeless tobacco products. Included among the plaintiffs are five individuals alleging use of USSTC s smokeless tobacco products and alleging the types of injuries claimed to be associated with the use of
smokeless tobacco products. While certain of these actions had not been consolidated for pretrial and trial proceedings, USSTC, along with other non-cigarette manufacturers, has remained severed from such proceedings since December 2001.   
        Third, UST and/or its tobacco subsidiaries has been named in a number
of other individual tobacco and health suits. Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in these cases are based on various theories of recovery, such as negligence, strict liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, breach
of implied warranty, addiction, and breach of consumer protection statutes. Plaintiffs seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and punitive damages, and certain equitable relief, including but not limited to disgorgement. Defenses
raised in these cases include lack of causation, assumption of the risk, comparative fault and/or contributory negligence, and statutes of limitations. USSTC is currently named in an action in Florida ( Vassallo ) and in an action in
Connecticut ( Hill ). Trial in the  Hill  case is set to commence in December 2010.              Antitrust Litigation              Following a previous antitrust action brought against UST and certain of its tobacco subsidiaries by a competitor, Conwood Company L.P., UST and certain of its tobacco subsidiaries were named as defendants in
certain actions brought by indirect purchasers (consumers) in a number of jurisdictions. As indirect purchasers of USSTC s smokeless tobacco products during various periods of time ranging
        
   -46-   

Table of Contents  

from January 1990 to the date of certification or potential certification of the proposed classes, plaintiffs in those actions alleged, individually and on behalf of putative class members
in a particular state or individually and on behalf of class members in the applicable states, that UST and certain of its tobacco subsidiaries violated the antitrust laws, unfair and deceptive trade practices statutes and/or common law of those
states. In connection with these actions, plaintiffs sought to recover compensatory and statutory damages in an amount not to exceed $75,000 per purported class member or per class member, and certain other relief. The indirect purchaser actions, as
filed, were similar in all material respects.            The indirect
purchaser actions have been settled in all jurisdictions. Pursuant to the settlements in all jurisdictions except California and Massachusetts, adult consumers received coupons redeemable on future purchases of USSTC s moist smokeless tobacco
products, and UST agreed to pay all related administrative costs and plaintiffs  attorneys  fees. As of January 31, 2010, UST has recognized a liability of approximately $7.4 million, reflecting the costs attributable to coupons
previously distributed to Kansas, New Hampshire, New York and Wisconsin class members, which are redeemable on future purchases of USSTC s moist smokeless tobacco products. The California and Massachusetts settlements were for cash only and did
not involve distribution of coupons.              Other Litigation 
            In September 2008, plaintiffs filed a purported class
action on behalf of a purported class of UST stockholders in Superior Court in Connecticut to enjoin the proposed acquisition of UST by Altria Group, Inc., alleging, among other things, that UST and/or nine of its directors had violated their
fiduciary duties by agreeing to the terms of the acquisition and that Altria Group, Inc. had aided and abetted in the alleged violation. In October 2008, plaintiffs amended the complaint to add allegations concerning UST s definitive proxy
statement and certain benefits payable to UST s officers in connection with the transaction. The amended complaint also included aiding and abetting claims against UST. In December 2008, the parties entered into a Memorandum of Understanding to
settle this lawsuit and resolve all claims. The settlement received final court approval in October 2009. The settlement amount was immaterial.             Certain Other Actions               IRS Challenges to PMCC Leases :  The IRS concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns for the years
1996 through 1999, and issued a final Revenue Agent s Report ( RAR ) in March 2006. The RAR disallowed benefits pertaining to certain PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. Altria Group, Inc. agreed with
all conclusions of the RAR, with the exception of the disallowance of benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. Altria Group, Inc. contests approximately $150 million of tax and net interest
assessed and paid with regard to them. The IRS may in the future challenge and disallow more of PMCC s leveraged lease benefits based on Revenue Rulings, an IRS Notice and subsequent case law addressing specific types of leveraged leases
(lease-in/lease-out ( LILO ) and sale-in/lease-out ( SILO ) transactions).            In October 2006, Altria Group, Inc. filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York to claim refunds on a portion of these tax payments and associated interest for the
years 1996 and 1997. In July 2009, the jury returned a unanimous verdict in favor of the IRS and subsequently Altria Group, Inc. filed motions for judgment as a matter of law or, in the alternative, for a new trial.            In March 2008, Altria Group, Inc. filed a second complaint in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking a refund of the tax payments and associated interest for the
        
   -47-   

Table of Contents  

years 1998 and 1999 attributable to the disallowance of benefits claimed in those years with respect to the leases subject to the recent jury verdict and with respect to certain other leases
entered into in 1998 and 1999.            Based on Notices of Proposed
Adjustments received by Altria Group, Inc., we expect that the IRS will challenge and disallow tax benefits claimed by Altria Group, Inc. with respect to the leases subject to the recent jury verdict plus other PMCC leveraged lease transactions
characterized by the IRS as LILOs and SILOs, including benefits claimed from LILO and SILO transactions entered into during both the 1996   1999 years and the 2000   2003 years. Altria Group, Inc. plans to contest proposed leveraged lease
adjustments made by the IRS. The total disallowance for 2000   2003 for these leases in federal income tax and related interest would be approximately $1.0 billion.       
     If the tax benefits for the transactions entered into from 1996 to 2003 were similarly disallowed for the period January 1, 2004
through December 31, 2009, the disallowance for such period for these leases in federal income tax and related interest would be approximately $900 million, taking into account federal income tax paid or payable on gains associated with sales
of leased assets during that period.            The payment, if any,
of the foregoing amounts would depend upon the timing and outcome of the ongoing 2000   2003 audit and future IRS audits and any related administrative challenges or litigation.            LILO and SILO transactions represent approximately 40% of the Net Finance Assets of PMCC s lease portfolio. PMCC
entered into no LILO or SILO transactions after 2003.            Should Altria Group, Inc. not prevail in these matters, Altria Group, Inc. may have to accelerate the payment of significant amounts of federal income tax, pay associated interest costs and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the
recalculation of the income from the affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year.              Kraft Thrift Plan Case :  Four participants in the Kraft Foods
Global, Inc. Thrift Plan ( Kraft Thrift Plan ), a defined contribution plan, filed a class action complaint on behalf of all participants and beneficiaries of the Kraft Thrift Plan in July 2008 in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois alleging breach of fiduciary duty under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ). Named defendants in this action include Altria Corporate Services, Inc. (now Altria Client Services Inc.) and
certain company committees that allegedly had a relationship to the Kraft Thrift Plan. Plaintiffs request, among other remedies, that defendants restore to the Kraft Thrift Plan all losses improperly incurred. The Altria Group, Inc. defendants
deny any violation of ERISA or other unlawful conduct and intend to defend the case vigorously. Under the terms of a Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft, Altria Client Services Inc. and related defendants may be
entitled to indemnity against any liabilities incurred in connection with this case.             Environmental Regulation             Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise related to environmental
protection, including, in the United States: The Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as  Superfund ),
which can impose joint and several liability on each responsible party. Subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) of Altria Group, Inc. are involved in several matters subjecting them to potential costs of remediation and natural resource damages under
Superfund or other laws and regulations. Altria Group, Inc. s
        
   -48-   

Table of Contents  

subsidiaries expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in connection with environmental laws and regulations. Although it is not possible to predict precise levels of
environmental-related expenditures, compliance with such laws and regulations, including the payment of any remediation costs or damages and the making of such expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on
Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position, earnings or competitive position.             Guarantees             At December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. had a $12 million third-party guarantee, related to a divestiture, which was recorded as a liability on
its consolidated balance sheet. This guarantee has no specified expiration date. Altria Group, Inc. is required to perform under this guarantee in the event that a third party fails to make contractual payments. In the ordinary course of business,
certain subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. have agreed to indemnify a limited number of third parties in the event of future litigation. At December 31, 2009, subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. were also contingently liable for $25 million of
guarantees related to their own performance, consisting primarily of surety bonds. These items have not had, and are not expected to have, a significant impact on Altria Group, Inc. s liquidity.            Under the terms of a distribution agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and
PMI, entered into in connection with the PMI spin-off, liabilities concerning tobacco products will be allocated based in substantial part on the manufacturer. PMI will indemnify Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA for liabilities related to tobacco
products manufactured by PMI or contract manufactured for PMI by PM USA, and PM USA will indemnify PMI for liabilities related to tobacco products manufactured by PM USA, excluding tobacco products contract manufactured for PMI. Altria Group, Inc.
does not have a related liability recorded on its consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2009 as the fair value of this indemnification is insignificant.            As more fully discussed in Note 23.  Condensed Consolidating Financial Information  to Altria Group, Inc. s
consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2009 Annual Report, PM USA has issued guarantees relating to Altria Group, Inc. s obligations under its outstanding debt securities and borrowings under its
revolving credit agreements and its commercial paper program.             Redeemable
Noncontrolling Interest             In September 2007, UST
completed the acquisition of  Stag s Leap Wine Cellars  through one of its consolidated subsidiaries, Michelle-Antinori, LLC ( Michelle-Antinori ), in which UST holds an 85% ownership interest with a 15% noncontrolling interest
held by Antinori California ( Antinori ). In connection with the acquisition of  Stag s Leap Wine Cellars , UST entered into a put arrangement with Antinori. The put arrangement, as later amended, provides Antinori with the right
to require UST to purchase its 15% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori at a price equal to Antinori s initial investment of $27 million. The put arrangement becomes exercisable beginning September 11, 2010. As of December 31,
2009, the redemption value of the put arrangement did not exceed the noncontrolling interest balance. Therefore, no adjustment to the value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest was recognized in the consolidated balance sheet for the put
arrangement.            The noncontrolling interest put arrangement is
accounted for as mandatorily redeemable securities because redemption is outside of the control of UST. As such, the redeemable noncontrolling interest is reported in the mezzanine equity section in the consolidated balance sheet at
December 31, 2009.         

Item 4.   
      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.              
     None.         
   -49-   

Table of Contents  

    PART II          

Item 5.   
      Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.                   In September 2009, Altria Group, Inc. suspended indefinitely its $4.0
billion (2008 to 2010) share repurchase program in order to preserve financial flexibility and focus on interest expense reduction. Altria Group, Inc. s share repurchase program is at the discretion of the Board of Directors.            Altria Group, Inc. s share repurchase activity for each of the three
months in the period ended December 31, 2009, was as follows:         

(1)  
  Represents shares tendered to Altria Group, Inc. by employees who vested in restricted and deferred stock, or exercised stock options, and used shares to pay all, or a portion
of, the related taxes and/or option exercise price.           
          The principal stock exchange on which Altria Group, Inc. s common stock (par value $0.33   1   /  3   per share) is listed is the New York Stock Exchange. At January 29,
2010, there were approximately 93,000 holders of record of Altria Group, Inc. s common stock.             The other information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraph captioned  Quarterly Financial Data
(Unaudited)  on pages 79 to 80 of the 2009 Annual Report and made a part hereof.         

Item 6.   
      Selected Financial Data.                   The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the information with respect to 2005-2009 appearing under the caption
 Selected Financial Data   Five Year Review  on page 18 of the 2009 Annual Report and made a part hereof.         
   -50-   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.                   The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by
reference to the paragraphs captioned  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  on pages 81 to 106 of the 2009 Annual Report and made a part hereof.         

Item 7A.   
      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.                   The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraphs in the
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  captioned  Market Risk  on pages 103 to 104 of the 2009 Annual Report and made a part hereof.         

Item 8.   
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.                
  The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2009 Annual Report as set forth under the caption  Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited)  on pages 79 to 80 and in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules (see Item 15) and made a part hereof.         

Item 9.   
      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.                   None.         

Item 9A.   
      Controls and Procedures.                

(a)  
  Disclosure Controls and Procedures              Altria Group, Inc. carried out an evaluation, with the participation of Altria Group, Inc. s management, including Altria Group, Inc. s Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of Altria Group, Inc. s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the end of the period
covered by this report. Based upon that evaluation, Altria Group, Inc. s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that Altria Group, Inc. s disclosure controls and procedures are effective. There have been no changes
in Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial
reporting.            See pages 107 to 108 of Exhibit 13 for the
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm and the Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting incorporated herein by reference.         

Item 9B.   
      Other Information.                   None.         
   -51-   

Table of Contents  

    PART III             Except for the information relating to the executive officers set forth in Item 10, the information called for by
Items 10-14 is hereby incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s definitive proxy statement for use in connection with its annual meeting of shareholders to be held on May 20, 2010 that will be filed with the SEC on or about
April 9, 2010 (the  proxy statement ), and, except as indicated therein, made a part hereof.         

Item 10.   
        Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.                   Executive Officers as of February 24, 2010:          

Name     
      
     Office     
      
   Age      
 
    Martin J. Barrington   
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Compliance and Administrative Officer   
      
  56   
 
    David R. Beran   
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
      
  55   
 
    Nancy E. Brennan   
      
    Senior Vice President, Marketing, Altria Client Services Inc.   
      
  57   
 
    William F. Gifford, Jr.   
      
    President and Chief Executive Officer, Philip Morris USA Inc.   
      
  39   
 
    Louanna O. Heuhsen   
      
    Vice President, Corporate Governance and Associate General Counsel   
      
  59   
 
    Craig A. Johnson   
      
    Executive Vice President   
      
  57   
 
    Denise F. Keane   
      
    Executive Vice President and General Counsel   
      
  58   
 
    Salvatore Mancuso   
      
    Vice President and Treasurer   
      
  44   
 
    John R. Nelson   
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer   
      
  58   
 
    Peter P. Paoli   
      
    President and Chief Executive Officer, U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC   
      
  52   
 
    W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr.   
      
    Corporate Secretary and Senior Assistant General Counsel   
      
  44   
 
    Michael E. Szymanczyk   
      
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer   
      
  61   
 
    Linda M. Warren   
      
    Vice President and Controller   
      
  61   
 
    Howard A. Willard III   
      
    Executive Vice President, Strategy and Business Development   
      
  46             All of the above-mentioned officers have been employed by Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries in various capacities during the past five years, except for Ms. Heuhsen, who joined in 2008 after serving as a
partner in the law firm of Hunton   Williams LLP, and Mr. Surgner, who rejoined in 2006 after serving as Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Tredegar Corporation.             Codes of Conduct and Corporate Governance             Altria Group, Inc. has adopted the Altria Code of Conduct for Compliance
and Integrity, which complies with requirements set forth in Item 406 of Regulation S-K. This Code of Conduct applies to all of its employees, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting
officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions. Altria Group, Inc. has also adopted a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to the members of its Board of Directors. These documents are available free of charge on Altria
Group, Inc. s website at www.altria.com.            In addition,
Altria Group, Inc. has adopted corporate governance guidelines and charters for its Audit, Compensation and Nominating, Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committees and the other committees of the Board of Directors. All of these
documents are available free of charge on Altria Group, Inc. s web site at www.altria.com. Any waiver granted by Altria Group, Inc. to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer or controller under the code of ethics, or
certain amendments to the code of ethics, will be disclosed on Altria Group, Inc. s website at www.altria.com.         
   -52-   

Table of Contents  

   The information on the respective web sites of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries is not, and
shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Report or incorporated into any other filings Altria Group, Inc. makes with the SEC.         

Item 11.   
      Executive Compensation.                   Refer to  Compensation Committee Matters  and  Compensation of Directors  sections of the proxy statement.         

Item 12.   
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.                   Refer to  Ownership of Equity Securities  and  Equity
Compensation Plan Information  sections of the proxy statement.         

Item 13.   
      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.                   Refer to  Related Person Transactions and Code of Conduct  and
 Independence of Nominees  sections of the proxy statement.         

Item 14.   
      Principal Accounting Fees and Services.                   Refer to  Audit Committee Matters  section of the proxy statement.         
   -53-   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV          

Item 15.   
      Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   .            

(a)  
  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules           
          Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted either because such schedules are not required or are not applicable.         

(b)  
  The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report:           

2.1  
      
  Distribution Agreement by and between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft Foods Inc., dated as of January 31, 2007. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on January 31, 2007 (File No. 1-08940).   

2.2  
      
  Distribution Agreement by and between Altria Group, Inc. and Philip Morris International Inc., dated as of January 30, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 30, 2008 (File No. 1-08940).   

2.3  
      
  Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among UST Inc., Altria Group, Inc., and Armchair Merger Sub, Inc., dated as of September 7, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group,
Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 8, 2008 (File No. 1-08940).   

2.4  
      
  Amendment No. 1 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 7, 2008, by and among UST Inc., Altria Group, Inc., and Armchair Merger Sub, Inc., dated as of October 2,
2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 3, 2008 (File No. 1-08940).   

3.1  
      
  Articles of Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of Altria Group, Inc. and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Altria
Group, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 (File No. 1-08940).          
   -54-   

Table of Contents  

3.2  
      
  Amended and Restated By-laws of Altria Group, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 22, 2010 (File No. 1-08940).

4.1  
      
  Indenture between Altria Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York (as successor in interest to JPMorgan Chase Bank, formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as Trustee, dated as of
December 2, 1996. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-3/A filed on January 29, 1998 (No. 333-35143).   

4.2  
      
  First Supplemental Indenture to Indenture, dated as of December 2, 1996, between Altria Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York (as successor in interest to JPMorgan Chase Bank, formerly
known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as Trustee, dated as of February 13, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 15, 2008 (File No. 1-08940).   

4.3  
      
  Indenture among Altria Group, Inc., as Issuer, Philip Morris USA Inc., as Guarantor, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee, dated as of November 4, 2008. Incorporated by
reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on November 4, 2008 (No. 333-155009).   

4.4  
      
  5-Year Revolving Credit Agreement among Altria Group, Inc. and the Initial Lenders named therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agents, Credit Suisse
First Boston, Cayman Islands Branch and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as Syndication Agents and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., BNP Paribas, HSBC Bank USA, National Association and UBS Securities LLC, as Arrangers and Documentation Agents, dated as of
April 15, 2005. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 20, 2005 (File No. 1-08940).   

4.5  
      
  Consent and Waiver, dated as of June 25, 2009, to the 5-Year Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of April 15, 2005, among Altria Group, Inc., the Lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agents, Credit Suisse First Boston, Cayman Islands Branch and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as Syndication Agents, and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., BNP Paribas, HSBC Bank USA, National Association and UBS
Securities LLC, as Arrangers and Documentation Agents. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2009 (File No. 1-08940).   

4.6  
      
  3-Year Revolving Credit Agreement among Altria Group, Inc. and the Initial Lenders named therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agents, Barclays
Capital, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as Syndication Agents and Banco Santander, S.A., New York Branch, The Bank of Nova Scotia, HSBC Bank USA, National Association, Morgan
Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, as Documentation Agents, dated as of November 20, 2009. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 23, 2009 (File No. 1-08940).

4.7  
      
  The Registrant agrees to furnish copies of any instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries that does not exceed
10 percent of the total assets of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries to the Commission upon request.   

10.1  
      
  Comprehensive Settlement Agreement and Release related to settlement of Mississippi health care cost recovery action, dated as of October 17, 1997. Incorporated by reference to Altria
Group, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.2  
      
  Settlement Agreement related to settlement of Florida health care cost recovery action, dated August 25, 1997. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on September 3, 1997 (File No. 1-08940).          
   -55-   

Table of Contents  

-56-   

Table of Contents  

10.16  
      
  Employee Matters Agreement by and between Altria Group, Inc. and Philip Morris International Inc., dated as of March 28, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 28, 2008 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.17  
      
  Tax Sharing Agreement by and between Altria Group, Inc. and Philip Morris International Inc., dated as of March 28, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on March 28, 2008 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.18  
      
  Transition Services Agreement by and between Altria Corporate Services, Inc. and Philip Morris International Inc., dated as of March 28, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria
Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 28, 2008 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.19  
      
  364-Day Bridge Loan Agreement among Altria Group, Inc. and the Initial Lenders named therein and Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. as Administrative
Agents, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agents and Credit Suisse, Cayman Islands Branch and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as Arrangers and Documentation Agents, dated as of January 28, 2008. Incorporated by reference to
Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 1, 2008 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.20  
      
  Guarantee made by Philip Morris USA Inc., in favor of the lenders party to the 5-Year Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of April 15, 2005, among Altria Group, Inc., the lenders
named therein, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agents, dated as of September 8, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 8, 2008 (File
No. 1-08940).   

10.21  
      
  Guarantee made by Philip Morris USA Inc., in favor of the lenders party to the Bridge Loan Agreement, dated as of January 28, 2008, among Altria Group, Inc., the lenders named therein, and
Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., as Administrative Agents, dated as of September 8, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 8, 2008 (File
No. 1-08940).   

10.22  
      
  Commitment Letter among Altria Group, Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, dated as of September 7,
2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 8, 2008 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.23  
      
  Amended and Restated Commitment Letter among Altria Group, Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Goldman Sachs Bank USA,
dated as of October 20, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2008 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.24  
      
  364-Day Bridge Loan Agreement among Altria Group, Inc. and the Initial Lenders named therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as Administrative Agents,
Citicorp North America, Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Syndication Agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Barclays Bank
PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Co-arrangers, dated as of December 19, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report
on Form 8-K filed on December 22, 2008 (File No. 1-08940).          
   -57-   

Table of Contents  

-58-   

Table of Contents  

-59-   

Table of Contents  

-60-   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES              Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.           

A LTRIA  G ROUP , I NC .   

By:   
     
    /s/    M ICHAEL  E. S ZYMANCZYK         

(Michael E. Szymanczyk     Chairman of the Board and     Chief Executive Officer)     
         Date: February 24, 2010             Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:          

Signature     
      
     Title     
     
     Date      

/s/    M ICHAEL  E.
S ZYMANCZYK               (Michael E.
Szymanczyk)   
      
    Director, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer   
     
  February 24, 2010   

/s/    D AVID  R.
B ERAN               (David R.
Beran)   
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
     
  February 24, 2010   

/ S /    L INDA  M.
W ARREN               (Linda M.
Warren)   
      
    Vice President and Controller   
     
  February 24, 2010   

*   ELIZABETH E. BAILEY,     GERALD L. BALILES,     JOHN T.
CASTEEN III,     DINYAR S. DEVITRE,     THOMAS F. FARRELL II,     ROBERT E. R. HUNTLEY,     THOMAS W. JONES,     GEORGE
MU OZ,     NABIL Y. SAKKAB   
      
    Directors   

*By:   
     
    /s/    M ICHAEL  E. S ZYMANCZYK       (M ICHAEL  E. S ZYMANCZYK      A TTORNEY - IN - FACT )   

February 24, 2010          
   -61-   

Table of Contents  

        Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm             To the Board of Directors and
Stockholders of Altria Group, Inc.:            Our audits of the
consolidated financial statements and of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting referred to in our report dated January 28, 2010 appearing in the 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. (which report and
consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement
schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.            /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP            Richmond, Virginia      January 28, 2010         
   S-1   

Table of Contents  

        ALTRIA GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        For the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007        (in millions)          
     Notes:         

(a)  
  Primarily related to acquisitions.           

(b)  
  Represents charges for which allowances were created.           
   S-2   

<EX-10.28>
 2
 dex1028.htm
 FINANCIAL COUNSELING PROGRAM

Financial Counseling Program 

Exhibit 10.28       ALTRIA GROUP, INC.      Financial Counseling Program      Altria Group, Inc. has a program that has existed since January 1, 1980 to provide for financial counseling services for key executives. This program
currently provides for reimbursement to senior management or payment directly to the chosen advisor for expenditures they incur in connection with their personal financial and estate planning and preparation of tax returns for them and/or their
dependent children, subject to the following annual limits:       

3.  
  Lesser amounts for certain subordinate salary bands.        Rather than limit individuals to specific advisors, each eligible executive may seek his own reputable advisor to perform such services. Reimbursement shall be limited to the services set forth above and will not include, for example, fees
related to the execution of financial transactions (e.g., a broker s fee for the purchase and/or sale of a mutual fund or individual stock). Also, it shall be necessary for invoices to reflect in reasonable detail the nature and extent of the
services performed.      Payments by Altria Group, Inc. under this program will be included in the executive s taxable compensation in the
year in which reimbursement occurred.         

</EX-10.28>

<EX-10.34>
 3
 dex1034.htm
 UNIT PLAN FOR INCUMBENT NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS

Unit Plan For Incumbent Non-Employee Directors 

Exhibit 10.34        Unit Plan For Incumbent Non-Employee Directors        (as
amended effective August 31, 2007)        SECTION 1. Introduction       The Unit Plan for Incumbent Non-Employee Directors provides for a Stock Unit Account, an Equity Index Account and an Interest Income Account
for each Incumbent Director, the value of which will be paid to the Incumbent Director or, in the case of his or her death, a Beneficiary, upon such Incumbent Director s ceasing to be a Director after January 1, 1996. This Plan was
initially effective November 29, 1995. No additional amounts, other than earnings, have been credited since January 1, 1996.       SECTION 2. Definitions       For purposes of the Plan, the following terms are defined as set forth below:

a.  
    Account   means the Stock Unit Account, the Equity Index Account or the Interest Income Account, and  Accounts  means more than one of the
Accounts.         

b.  
    Altria Stock Fund   means the Altria Stock Fund of the Profit-Sharing Plan or the predecessor thereto (such predecessor fund was referred to as the
Philip Morris Stock Fund).         

c.  
    Beneficiary   means any person or entity designated as such in a current Beneficiary Designation Form on file with the Corporate Secretary of the
Company. If there is no valid designation or if no designated Beneficiary survives the Participant, the Beneficiary is the Participant s estate.         

d.  
    Beneficiary Designation Form   means a Plan Beneficiary Designation Form properly completed and signed.         

e.  
    Board   means the Board of Directors of the Company.         

f.  
    Common Stock   means the common stock, $0.331/3 par value, of the Company.         

g.  
    Company   means Altria Group, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, or any successor corporation.

h.  
    Director   means a person serving on the Board.         

i.  
    Distribution Election Form   means a Plan Distribution and Special Transfer Election Form properly completed and signed.         

j.  
    Equity Index Account   means the unfunded deferred compensation account established by the Company in accordance with Section 3 of the Plan.
          
   1   

k.  
    Equity Index Fund   means the Equity Index Fund of the Profit-Sharing Plan.         

l.  
    ERISA   means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations thereunder.

m.  
    Interest Income Account   means the unfunded deferred compensation account established by the Company in accordance with Section 3 of the Plan.

n.  
    Interest Income Fund   means the Interest Income Fund of the Profit-Sharing Plan.         

o.  
    Incumbent Director   means a Director on January 1, 1996 who is not entitled to receive a pension or similar benefit from the Company or any
corporation in which the Company owns, or at any time owned, directly or indirectly, stock possessing at least fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote; provided, however, if an Incumbent
Director is eligible for a Pension Allowance (as defined in the Pension Plan) if he or she ceases to be a Director, he or she waives, before December 20, 1995, his or her right to such Pension Allowance.         

p.  
    Participant   means an Incumbent Director, and a person who was, but is no longer, serving on the Board as long as an Account is being maintained for
his or her benefit.         

q.  
    Pension Plan   means the Pension Plan for Directors of Philip Morris Companies Inc.         

r.  
    Plan   means the Unit Plan for Incumbent Non-Employee Directors.         

s.  
    Profit-Sharing Plan   means the Altria Group, Inc. Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan, effective as of January 1, 1956, as amended from time to time.

t.  
    Stock Unit   means a notional entry that is the equivalent of one share of Common Stock.         

u.  
    Stock Unit Account   means the unfunded deferred compensation account established by the Company in accordance with Section 3 of the Plan.
        SECTION 3. Accounts       On January 1, 1996, the Company shall establish a Stock Unit Account for each Incumbent Director and shall credit thereto a number of Stock Units equal to that resulting from a theoretical investment
of $285,000 on December 29, 1995 in the Altria Stock Fund; provided, however, if, before December 20, 1995, a Director shall have elected to credit an amount, not in excess of $142,500 in the aggregate, to one or both of the Equity Index
Account and the Interest Income Account, the Company shall establish for each such Incumbent Director on January 1, 1996 such Accounts in the amounts specified and shall credit to a Stock Unit Account for such Incumbent Director that number of
Stock Units equal to that resulting from a theoretical investment on December
        
   2   

29, 1995 in the Altria Stock Fund of $285,000, less the amounts credited to such other Accounts.      The Stock Unit Account shall be a bookkeeping account whose value shall be based on a theoretical investment in the Altria Stock Fund. If as a result of adjustments or substitutions in connection with an
event described in the second paragraph of Section 4 of the Company s Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors or the comparable provision of any successor to such plan, a participant has received or receives with respect to his
or her Stock Unit Account rights or amounts measured by reference to stock other than Common Stock, (i) such rights or amounts shall be accounted for in an additional account under the Plan but treated as subject to the elections made with
respect to the Stock Unit Account under the Plan and (ii) within 12 months following the event described in such Section 4, the participant shall be offered the opportunity to convert the portion of his or her account measured by reference
to such other stock to an amount credited under the Stock Unit Account having the same fair market value (rounded as necessary to reflect fractional shares) as of the date of such conversion.      The Equity Index Account shall be a bookkeeping account whose value shall be based on a theoretical investment in the Equity Index Fund of
the Profit-Sharing Plan.      The Interest Income Account shall be a bookkeeping account whose value shall be based on a
theoretical investment in the Interest Income Fund of the Profit-Sharing Plan.      Each Account shall be credited with earnings
and charged with losses, if any, on the same basis as the corresponding Fund, as the same may be changed from time to time, under the Profit-Sharing Plan. The value of any Account at any relevant time shall be determined as if all amounts credited
thereto had been invested in the corresponding Fund; provided, however, that if as a result of adjustments or substitutions in connection with an event described in the second paragraph of Section 4 of the Company s Stock Compensation Plan
for Non-Employee Directors or the comparable provision of any successor to such plan, a participant has received or receives with respect to his or her Stock Unit Account rights or amounts measured by reference to stock other than Common Stock, then
any crediting of amounts to reflect dividends with respect to such other stock shall be allocated among and treated as invested proportionately in the Accounts most recently selected and in effect for investment by the Participant.      Except as provided in Section 4 below, no transfer shall be permitted among Accounts.       SECTION 4. Distribution and Special Transfer Election       Unless the Participant has filed a Distribution Election Form with the Corporate Secretary of the Company no later than one year and one day preceding the date he or she ceases to be a Director, the
Participant s Accounts shall be distributed in a lump sum on
        
   3   

the first day of the second month following the date the Participant ceases to be a Director.      A Participant may file a Distribution Election Form, which shall be irrevocable, providing that distribution from his or her Accounts may be made (i) in no more than one-hundred eighty
(180) monthly, sixty (60) quarterly or fifteen (15) annual installments or (ii) in a combination of a lump sum and installments. The first such payment shall be made on the first day of the second month following the date the
participant ceases to be a Director. Each installment shall be determined by dividing the sum of the Account balances by the number of remaining installments. If a Participant or a Beneficiary is receiving distributions in installments, the Accounts
shall continue to accrue earnings and incur losses in accordance with Section 3.      A Participant who elects a distribution
in installments shall be entitled to make a special investment election on his or her Distribution Election Form pursuant to which transfers from the Participant s Stock Unit Account will be made, effective the first day of the second month
following the date the Participant ceases to be a Director, to an Equity Index Account or an Interest Income Account or both.      If a distribution occurs by reason of the Participant s death or, if at the time of death, the Participant was receiving distributions in installments, the balance remaining in the Participant s Accounts shall be payable to his or
her Beneficiaries designated in, and in the manner of payment set forth on, the Participant s Beneficiary Designation Form in effect on the date of the Participant s death. Any lump sum distributions to Beneficiaries shall be without
interest.      All distributions shall be paid in cash.       SECTION 5. Beneficiary Designation       A Participant may at any time file a
Beneficiary Designation Form with the Corporate Secretary of the Company. Such Beneficiary Designation Form may be revoked or modified at any time by filing a new Beneficiary Designation Form.       SECTION 6. General Provisions        6.1
Unfunded Plan.       It is intended that the Plan constitute an  unfunded  plan for deferred compensation. The Company may authorize
the creation of trusts or other arrangements to meet the obligations created under the Plan; provided, however, that, unless the Company otherwise determines, the existence of such trusts or other arrangements is consistent with the
 unfunded  status of the Plan. Any liability of the Company to any person with respect to any grant under the Plan shall be based solely upon any contractual obligations that may be created pursuant to the Plan. No such obligation of the
Company shall be
        
   4   

deemed to be secured by any pledge of, or other encumbrance on, any property of the Company.       6.2 Rules of Construction.       Headings are given to the sections of the Plan solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. The
reference to any statute, regulation, or other provision of law shall be construed to refer to any amendment to or successor of such provision of law.       6.3 Withholding.       No later than the date as of which an amount first becomes includible in the gross income of the Participant
or Beneficiary for Federal income tax purposes with respect to any participation under the Plan, the Participant or Beneficiary shall pay to the Company, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding the payment of, any Federal, state,
local or foreign taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to such amount.       6.4 Amendment.       The Plan may be amended by the Board, but no amendment shall be made that would impair the rights of a Participant to his or her Accounts without his or her
consent.       6.5 Duration of Plan.       There shall be no time limitation with respect to the Plan. The Board may terminate the Plan at any time. Upon termination of the Plan, amounts credited to each Account shall be distributed in accordance with the Distribution Election Form
applicable to each such Account or as otherwise provided in Section 4.       6.6 Assignability.       No Participant or Beneficiary shall have the right to assign, pledge or otherwise transfer any payments to which such Participant or Beneficiary may be
entitled under the Plan other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a  qualified domestic relations order  (as defined by Title I of ERISA).       6.7 Construction.       The Plan shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with Virginia
law. Headings are given to the sections of the Plan solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. The reference to any statute, regulation, or other provision of law shall be construed to refer to any amendment to or successor of such provision
of law. The Plan is intended to be construed so that participation in the Plan will be exempt from Section 16(b) of the
        
   5   

Exchange Act pursuant to regulations and interpretations issued from time to time by the Securities and Exchange Commission.         
   6   

</EX-10.34>

<EX-10.53>
 4
 dex1053.htm
 FORM OF RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT, DATED AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2009

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2009 

Exhibit 10.53        THE ALTRIA GROUP, INC.        2005 PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE
PLAN        RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT        (December 31, 2009)       ALTRIA GROUP, INC. (the  Company ), a
Virginia corporation, hereby grants to the employee identified in the 2009 Restricted Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the  Employee ) under the Altria Group, Inc. 2005 Performance Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) a
Restricted Stock Award (the  Award ) dated December 31, 2009, with respect to the number of shares set forth in the 2009 Restricted Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the  Shares ) of the Common Stock of the Company
(the  Common Stock ), all in accordance with and subject to the following terms and conditions:      1.  Book Entry
Registration . The Shares shall be evidenced by a book entry account maintained by the Company s Transfer Agent for the Common Stock. Upon the vesting of Shares, no certificates will be issued except upon a separate written request made to
such Transfer Agent or other agent as determined by the Company.      2.  Restrictions . Subject to Section 3 below, the
restrictions on the Shares shall lapse and the Shares shall vest on the Vesting Date set forth in the 2009 Restricted Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the  Vesting Date ), provided that the Employee remains an employee of the
Company (or a subsidiary or affiliate) during the entire period (the  Restriction Period ) commencing on the Award Date set forth in the Award Statement and ending on the Vesting Date.      3.  Termination of Employment During Restriction Period . In the event of the termination of the Employee s employment with the
Company (and with all subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company) prior to the Vesting Date due to death or Disability, or upon the Employee reaching eligibility for Normal Retirement, the restrictions on the Shares shall lapse and the Shares shall
become fully vested on the date of death, Disability, or eligibility for Normal Retirement.      If the Employee s employment
with the Company (and with all subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company) is terminated for any reason other than death or Disability prior to the end of the Restriction Period, the Employee shall forfeit all rights to the Shares. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company may, in its sole discretion, waive the restrictions on, and the vesting requirements for, the Shares.      4.  Voting and Dividend Rights . During the Restriction Period, the Employee shall have the rights to vote the Shares and to receive
any cash dividends payable with respect to the Shares, as paid, less applicable withholding taxes (it being understood that such dividends will generally be taxable as ordinary compensation income during such Restriction Period).      5.  Transfer Restrictions . This Award and the Shares (until they become unrestricted pursuant to the terms hereof) are
non-transferable and may not be assigned, hypothecated or otherwise pledged and shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to effect any such disposition, or upon the levy of any such process, the Award shall
immediately become null and void and the Shares shall be forfeited.      6.  Withholding Taxes . The Company is authorized to
satisfy the actual minimum statutory withholding taxes arising from the granting or vesting of this Award, as the case may be, by deducting the number of shares having an aggregate value equal to the amount of withholding taxes due from the total

number of shares awarded or the number of shares vesting or otherwise becoming subject to current taxation. The Company is also authorized to satisfy the actual withholding taxes arising from the
granting or vesting of this Award, or hypothetical withholding tax amounts if the Employee is covered under a Company tax equalization policy, as the case may be, by the remittance of the required amounts from any proceeds realized upon the
open-market sale of vested Shares by the Employee. Shares deducted from this Award in satisfaction of actual minimum withholding tax requirements shall be valued at the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date as of which the amount giving rise
to the withholding requirement first became includible in the gross income of the Employee under applicable tax laws. If the Employee is covered by a Company tax equalization policy, the Employee also agrees to pay to the Company any additional
hypothetical tax obligation calculated and paid in accordance with such tax equalization policy.      7.  Death of Employee .
If any of the Shares shall vest upon the death of the Employee, they shall be registered in the name of the estate of the Employee except that, to the extent permitted by the Compensation Committee, if the Company shall have theretofore received in
writing a beneficiary designation, the Shares shall be registered in the name of the designated beneficiary.      8.  Board
Authorization in the Event of Restatement . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if the Board of Directors of the Company or an appropriate Committee of the Board determines that, as a result of a restatement of the
Company s financial statements, the Employee has received greater compensation in connection with the Award than would been received absent the incorrect financial statements, the Board or Committee, in its discretion, may take such action with
respect to this Award as it deems necessary or appropriate to address the events that gave rise to the restatement and to prevent its recurrence. Such action may include, to the extent permitted by applicable law, causing the full or partial
cancellation of this Award and, with respect to Shares that have vested, requiring the Employee to repay to the Company the full or partial Fair Market Value of the Award determined at the time of vesting, and the Employee agrees by accepting this
Award that the Board or Committee may make such a cancellation, impose such a repayment obligation, or take other necessary or appropriate actions in such circumstances.      9.  Other Terms and Provisions . The terms and provisions of the Plan (a copy of which will be furnished to the Employee upon written request to the Office of the Secretary, Altria Group, Inc., 6601
West Broad Street, Richmond, Virginia 23230) are incorporated herein by reference. To the extent any provision of this Award is inconsistent or in conflict with any term or provision of the Plan, the Plan shall govern. Capitalized terms not
otherwise defined herein have the meaning set forth in the Plan. In the event of any merger, share exchange, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, distribution, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up,
spin-off, issuance of rights or warrants or other similar transaction or event affecting the Common Stock after the date of this Award, the Board of Directors of the Company is authorized, to the extent it deems appropriate, to make adjustments to
the number and kind of shares of stock subject to this Award, including the substitution of equity interests in other entities involved in such transactions, to provide for cash payments in lieu of Shares, and to determine whether continued
employment with any entity resulting from such a transaction will or will not be treated as continued employment with the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, in each case subject to any Board or Committee action specifically addressing any
such adjustments, cash payments, or continued employment treatment.      For purposes of this Agreement, (a) the term
 Disability  means permanent and total disability as determined under procedures established by the Company for purposes of the Plan, and (b) the term  Normal Retirement  means retirement from active employment under a
pension plan of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or under an employment contract with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company on or after the date specified as the normal retirement age in the
        
   2   

pension plan or employment contract, if any, under which the Employee is at that time accruing pension benefits for his or her current service (or, in the absence of a specified normal retirement
age, the age at which pension benefits under such plan or contract become payable without reduction for early commencement and without any requirement of a particular period of prior service). In any case in which (i) the meaning of
 Normal Retirement  is uncertain under the definition contained in the prior sentence or (ii) a termination of employment at or after age 65 would not otherwise constitute  Normal Retirement,  an Employee s termination
of employment shall be treated as a  Normal Retirement  under such circumstances as the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems equivalent to retirement. Generally, for purposes of this Agreement, (x) a  subsidiary 
includes only any company in which the Company, directly or indirectly, has a beneficial ownership interest of greater than 50 percent and (y) an  affiliate  includes only any company that (A) has a beneficial ownership interest,
directly or indirectly, in the Company of greater than 50 percent or (B) is under common control with the Company through a parent company that, directly or indirectly, has a beneficial ownership interest of greater than 50 percent in both the
Company and the affiliate.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Restricted Stock Agreement has been duly executed as of December 31,
2009.        

ALTRIA GROUP, INC.   

By:  
     
    /s/    W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr.    

W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr.     Corporate Secretary     
      
   3   

</EX-10.53>

<EX-10.55>
 5
 dex1055.htm
 FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE TIME SHARING AGREEMENT

First Amendment to the Time Sharing Agreement 

Exhibit 10.55         FIRST AMENDMENT TO TIME SHARING AGREEMENT        On January 28, 2009, Altria Client Services Inc. ( Operator ) and Michael E. Szymanczyk ( User ) entered into a Time Sharing Agreement (the  Agreement ). Pursuant to
paragraph 12 of the Agreement, Operator and User amend the Agreement as set forth below, effective November 12, 2009:      1. The first  WHEREAS  clause on page 1 of the Agreement is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following language:       WHEREAS, Operator owns or leases the aircraft more particularly described on  Exhibit A  attached hereto
(collectively, the  Aircraft  .      2. The following aircraft is added to Exhibit A of the
Agreement:       
        All other terms
and conditions of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. The persons signing below warrant their authority to sign.       

Operator:  

User:   

ALTRIA CLIENT SERVICES INC.  

MICHAEL E. SZYMANCZYK   

By:  
     
    /s/ Kevin P. Benner   

/s/ Michael E. Szymanczyk   
 
    Name:   
     
  Kevin P. Benner  

Title:  
     
  Senior Vice President, Human Resources  

1 of 1   

</EX-10.55>

<EX-12>
 6
 dex12.htm
 STATEMENTS REGARDING COMPUTATION OF RATIOS

Statements regarding computation of ratios 

Exhibit 12       ALTRIA GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES      Computation of Ratios of
Earnings to Fixed Charges      (in millions of dollars)                 

(A)  
  Altria Group, Inc. includes interest relating to uncertain tax positions in its provision for income taxes, therefore such amounts are not included in fixed charges in
the computation.     

(B)  
  Computation includes interest incurred and the portion of rent expense deemed to represent the interest factor from the discontinued operations of Philip Morris
International Inc. and Kraft Foods Inc. in fixed charges. Excluding these amounts from fixed charges, the ratio of earnings to fixed charges from continuing operations would have been 12.5, 9.5, 7.6, and 5.7 for the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.     

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 7
 dex13.htm
 PAGES 17 TO 108 OF THE 2009 ANNUAL REPORT

Pages 17 to 108 of the 2009 Annual Report 

Table of Contents  

Exhibit 13    
   Financial Review         

Financial Contents  

Selected Financial Data   Five-Year Review    
      
    page 18    

Consolidated Statements of Earnings    
      
    page 19    

Consolidated Balance Sheets    
      
    page 20    

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
      
    page 22    

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity    
      
    page 24    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      
    page 25    

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
    page 81    

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      
    page 107    

Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
      
    page 108         

Guide To Select Disclosures   

For easy reference, areas that may be of interest to investors are highlighted in the index below.    

Acquisitions   Note 3    
      
    page 29      

Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs   Note 6    
      
    page 32    

Benefit Plans   Note 18 includes a discussion of pension plans    
      
    page 43    

Contingencies   Note 22 includes a discussion of the litigation environment    
      
    page 50    

Finance Assets, net   Note 9 includes a discussion of leasing activities    
      
    page 34    

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net   Note 5    
      
    page 31    

Long-Term Debt   Note 11    
      
    page 36    

Segment Reporting   Note 17    
      
    page 42    

Stock Plans   Note 13 includes a discussion of stock compensation    
      
    page 38         

17    

Table of Contents  

     Selected Financial Data   Five-Year Review      (in millions of dollars, except per share data)         
    The Selected Financial Data should be read together with "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 1.  Background and   Basis of Presentation  to the consolidated financial statements. Certain prior year amounts in the table above have been reclassified
to conform with the current year's presentation due to the adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards Board's authoritative guidance which requires (i) transactions between an entity and a noncontrolling interest to be accounted for as equity
transactions and (ii) unvested share-based payment awards containing nonforfeitable rights to dividends be included as participating securities in the earnings per share ("EPS") calculation pursuant to the two class method.         
    18    

Table of Contents  

     Consolidated Statements of Earnings      (in millions of dollars, except per share data)         
    See notes to consolidated financial statements.         
    19    

Table of Contents  

     Consolidated Balance Sheets      (in millions of dollars, except share and per share data)         
        See
notes to consolidated financial statements.         
    20    

Table of Contents  

21    

Table of Contents  

     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows      (in millions of dollars)         
        See
notes to consolidated financial statements.         
    22    

Table of Contents  

23    

Table of Contents  

     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity      (in millions of dollars, except per share data)         
    (a) Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests excludes $1 million
related to the redeemable noncontrolling interest which is reported in the mezzanine equity section in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2009.      See notes to consolidated financial statements.         
    24    

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements       
 
        Note 1.                                     
                                         
                     Background and Basis of Presentation:                  Background:  At December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. s wholly-owned subsidiaries included Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of
cigarettes and certain smokeless products in the United States; UST LLC ( UST ), which through its subsidiaries is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless products and wine; and John Middleton Co. ( Middleton ), which is
engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco. Philip Morris Capital Corporation ( PMCC ), another wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc., maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct finance
leases. In addition, Altria Group, Inc. held a 27.3% economic and voting interest in SABMiller plc ( SABMiller ) at December 31, 2009. Altria Group, Inc. s access to the operating cash flows of its subsidiaries consists
principally of cash received from the payment of dividends by its subsidiaries.       UST Acquisition:  As discussed in Note 3.  Acquisitions , on
January 6, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding common stock of UST, whose direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries include U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC ( USSTC ) and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd.
( Ste. Michelle ). As a result of the acquisition, UST has become an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc. The UST acquisition was accounted for using new authoritative guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards
Board ( FASB ) effective January 1, 2009. In accordance with this guidance, previous acquisitions were not restated.       PMI Spin-Off: 
On March 28, 2008 (the  PMI Distribution Date ), Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its interest in Philip Morris International Inc. ( PMI ) to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders of record as of the close of business on
March 19, 2008 (the  PMI Record Date ), in a tax-free distribution. Altria Group, Inc. distributed one share of PMI common stock for every share of Altria Group, Inc. common stock outstanding as of the PMI Record Date. Following the
PMI Distribution Date, Altria Group, Inc. does not own any shares of PMI stock. Altria Group, Inc. has reflected the results of PMI prior to the PMI Distribution Date as discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of earnings and the
consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. The distribution resulted in a net decrease to Altria Group, Inc. s total stockholders  equity of $14.7 billion on the PMI Distribution Date.
     Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options were treated similarly to public stockholders and, accordingly, had their stock awards
split into two instruments. Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options received the following stock options, which, immediately after the spin-off, had an aggregate

intrinsic value equal to the intrinsic value of the pre-spin Altria Group, Inc. options:               a new PMI option to acquire the same number of shares of PMI common stock
as the number of Altria Group, Inc. options held by such person on the PMI Distribution Date; and               an adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option for the same number of shares of Altria Group,
Inc. common stock with a reduced exercise price.      As set forth in the Employee Matters Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI
(the  PMI Employee Matters Agreement ), the exercise price of each option was developed to reflect the relative market values of PMI and Altria Group, Inc. shares, by allocating the share price of Altria Group, Inc. common stock before the
spin-off ($73.83) to PMI shares ($51.44) and Altria Group, Inc. shares ($22.39) and then multiplying each of these allocated values by the Option Conversion Ratio as defined in the PMI Employee Matters Agreement. The Option Conversion Ratio was
equal to the exercise price of the Altria Group, Inc. option, prior to any adjustment for the spin-off, divided by the share price of Altria Group, Inc. common stock before the spin-off ($73.83).      Holders of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock awarded prior to January 30, 2008, retained their existing awards and received
the same number of shares of restricted or deferred stock of PMI. The restricted stock and deferred stock will not vest until the completion of the original restriction period (typically, three years from the date of the original grant). Recipients
of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 30, 2008, who were employed by Altria Group, Inc. after the PMI Distribution Date, received additional shares of deferred stock of Altria Group, Inc. to preserve the intrinsic value of the
award. Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 30, 2008, who were employed by PMI after the PMI Distribution Date, received substitute shares of deferred stock of PMI to preserve the intrinsic value of the award.
     To the extent that employees of Altria Group, Inc. after the PMI Distribution Date received PMI stock options, Altria Group, Inc.
reimbursed PMI in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options received. To the extent that PMI employees held Altria Group, Inc. stock options, PMI reimbursed Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock
options. To the extent that employees of Altria Group, Inc. received PMI deferred stock, Altria Group, Inc. paid to PMI the fair value of the PMI deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures. To the extent that PMI employees held Altria
Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock, PMI reimbursed Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the fair value of the restricted or deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures and any amounts previously charged to PMI for the restricted or
deferred stock. Based upon the number of

25    

Table of Contents  

Altria Group, Inc. stock awards outstanding at the PMI Distribution Date, the net amount of these reimbursements resulted in a payment of $449 million from Altria Group, Inc. to PMI. The
reimbursement to PMI is reflected as a decrease to the additional paid-in capital of Altria Group, Inc. on the December 31, 2008 consolidated balance sheet.      In connection with the spin-off, PMI paid to Altria Group, Inc. $4.0 billion in special dividends in addition to its normal dividends to Altria Group, Inc. PMI paid $3.1 billion of these special dividends in 2007
and paid the additional $900 million in the first quarter of 2008.      Prior to the PMI spin-off, PMI was included in the Altria Group, Inc.
consolidated federal income tax return, and PMI s federal income tax contingencies were recorded as liabilities on the balance sheet of Altria Group, Inc. Altria Group, Inc. reimbursed PMI in cash for these liabilities. See Note 16.  Income
Taxes  for a discussion of the Tax Sharing Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that is currently in effect.      Prior to the PMI
spin-off, certain employees of PMI participated in the U.S. benefit plans offered by Altria Group, Inc. The benefits previously provided by Altria Group, Inc. are now provided by PMI. As a result, new plans were established by PMI, and the related
plan assets (to the extent that the benefit plans were previously funded) and liabilities were transferred to the PMI plans. Altria Group, Inc. paid PMI in cash for these transfers.      A subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc. previously provided PMI with certain corporate services at cost plus a management fee. After the PMI Distribution
Date, PMI independently undertook most of these activities. All remaining limited services provided to PMI ceased in 2008. The settlement of the intercompany accounts as of the PMI Distribution Date (including amounts related to stock awards, tax
contingencies and benefit plans discussed above) resulted in a net payment from Altria Group, Inc. to PMI of $332 million. In March 2008, Altria Group, Inc. made an estimated payment of $427 million to PMI, thereby resulting in PMI reimbursing $95
million to Altria Group, Inc. in the second quarter of 2008.       Kraft Spin-Off:  On March 30, 2007 (the  Kraft Distribution Date ),
Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft Foods Inc. ( Kraft ) on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 16, 2007 (the  Kraft Record
Date ) in a tax-free distribution. The distribution ratio was 0.692024 of a share of Kraft for each share of Altria Group, Inc. common stock outstanding. Altria Group, Inc. stockholders received cash in lieu of fractional shares of Kraft.
Following the Kraft Distribution Date, Altria Group, Inc. does not own any shares of Kraft. Altria Group, Inc. has reflected the results of Kraft prior to the Kraft Distribution Date as discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of
earnings and the consolidated statements of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2007. The distribution resulted in a net decrease to Altria Group, Inc. s total stockholders  equity of $30.5 billion on the Kraft Distribution
Date.      Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options were treated similarly to public stockholders and, accordingly, had their

stock awards split into two instruments. Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options received the following stock options, which, immediately after the spin-off, had an aggregate intrinsic value
equal to the intrinsic value of the pre-spin Altria Group, Inc. options:               a new Kraft option to acquire the number of shares of Kraft Class A common stock equal to the product of (a) the number of Altria
Group, Inc. options held by such person on the Kraft Distribution Date and (b) the distribution ratio of 0.692024 mentioned above; and               an adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option for the same number of shares of
Altria Group, Inc. common stock with a reduced exercise price.      The new Kraft option has an exercise price equal to the Kraft market
price at the time of the distribution ($31.66) multiplied by the Option Conversion Ratio, which represents the exercise price of the original Altria Group, Inc. option divided by the Altria Group, Inc. market price immediately before the
distribution ($87.81). The reduced exercise price of the adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option is determined by multiplying the Altria Group, Inc. market price immediately following the distribution ($65.90) by the Option Conversion Ratio.   
  Holders of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock awarded prior to January 31, 2007, retained their existing award and received
restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft Class A common stock. The amount of Kraft restricted stock or deferred stock awarded to such holders was calculated using the same formula set forth above with respect to new Kraft options. All of the
restricted stock and deferred stock will vest at the completion of the original restriction period (typically, three years from the date of the original grant). Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 31, 2007, did
not receive restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft. Rather, they received additional deferred shares of Altria Group, Inc. to preserve the intrinsic value of the original award.      To the extent that employees of Altria Group, Inc. after the Kraft Distribution Date received Kraft stock options, Altria Group, Inc. reimbursed Kraft
in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options received. To the extent that Kraft employees held Altria Group, Inc. stock options, Kraft reimbursed Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options. To
the extent that holders of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock received Kraft deferred stock, Altria Group, Inc. paid to Kraft the fair value of the Kraft deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures. Based upon the number of Altria Group,
Inc. stock awards outstanding at the Kraft Distribution Date, the net amount of these reimbursements resulted in a payment of $179 million from Kraft to Altria Group, Inc. in April 2007. The reimbursement from Kraft is reflected as an increase to
the additional paid-in capital of Altria Group, Inc. on the December 31, 2007 consolidated balance sheet.      Prior to the Kraft
spin-off, Kraft was included in the Altria Group, Inc. consolidated federal income tax return, and Kraft s federal income tax contingencies were recorded as liabilities on the balance sheet of Altria Group, Inc. Altria Group, Inc.

26    

Table of Contents  

reimbursed Kraft in cash for these liabilities. See Note 16.  Income Taxes  for a discussion of the Tax Sharing Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft that is currently in effect.
     A subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc. previously provided Kraft with certain services at cost plus a management fee. After the Kraft
Distribution Date, Kraft independently undertook most of these activities, and any remaining limited services provided to Kraft ceased during 2007. All intercompany accounts were settled in cash within 30 days of the Kraft Distribution Date. The
settlement of the intercompany accounts as of the Kraft Distribution Date (including amounts related to stock awards and tax contingencies discussed above) resulted in a net payment from Kraft to Altria Group, Inc. of $85 million in April 2007.
      Dividends and Share Repurchases:  Following the Kraft spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its dividend so that holders of both Altria Group, Inc.
and Kraft shares would receive initially, in the aggregate, the same dividends paid by Altria Group, Inc. prior to the Kraft spin-off. Similarly, following the PMI spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its dividend so that holders of both Altria
Group, Inc. and PMI shares would receive initially, in the aggregate, the same dividends paid by Altria Group, Inc. prior to the PMI spin-off.      During the third quarter of 2009, Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors approved a 6.3% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.34 per common share. The present annualized dividend rate is $1.36 per Altria Group, Inc. common share.
Future dividend payments remain subject to the discretion of Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors.      During the second quarter of
2008, Altria Group, Inc. repurchased 53.5 million shares of its common stock at an aggregate cost of approximately $1.2 billion, or an average price of $21.81 per share. In September 2009, Altria Group, Inc. suspended indefinitely its $4.0
billion (2008 to 2010) share repurchase program, which is at the discretion of its Board of Directors.                  Basis of presentation:  The consolidated financial statements include Altria Group, Inc., as well as its
wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries. Investments in which Altria Group, Inc. exercises significant influence (20%-50% ownership interest) are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. All intercompany transactions and balances
have been eliminated.      The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America ( U.S. GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of net revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Significant estimates and assumptions include, among other things, pension and benefit plan assumptions, lives and valuation assumptions of goodwill and other intangible
assets, marketing programs, income taxes, and the allowance for loan losses and estimated residual values of finance leases. Actual results could differ from those estimates. As part of the preparation of the consolidated financial

statements, Altria Group, Inc. performed an evaluation of subsequent events occurring after the consolidated balance sheet date of December 31, 2009, through January 28, 2010, the date the
consolidated financial statements were issued. Additionally, Altria Group, Inc. has updated this evaluation of subsequent events from January 28, 2010, through February 24, 2010 (unaudited).      Balance sheet accounts are segregated by two broad types of business. Consumer products assets and liabilities are classified as either current or
non-current, whereas financial services assets and liabilities are unclassified, in accordance with respective industry practices.      On
January 1, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. adopted new FASB authoritative guidance, which changed the reporting for certain minority interests by reporting these as noncontrolling interests within equity. Moreover, any transactions between an entity
and a noncontrolling interest are accounted for as equity transactions. As a result, Altria Group, Inc. (i) adjusted earnings from discontinued operations to include $61 million and $351 million of net earnings attributable to noncontrolling
interests for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively; (ii) disclosed the net earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interests and net earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. on the consolidated statements of
earnings and (iii) reclassified to stockholders  equity $418 million and $3,528 million of noncontrolling interests reported at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, as long-term liabilities of discontinued operations.   
  Beginning with the first quarter of 2009, Altria Group, Inc. revised its reportable segments to reflect the change in the way in which Altria Group,
Inc. s chief operating decision maker reviews the business as a result of the acquisition of UST. Altria Group, Inc. s segments, which are reflected in these financial statements, are cigarettes, smokeless products, cigars, wine and
financial services.      Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current year s presentation, due
primarily to the adoption of the FASB s authoritative guidance that requires transactions between an entity and a noncontrolling interest to be accounted for as equity transactions.           Note 2.                                     
                                         
                     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies:                  Cash and cash equivalents:  Cash equivalents include demand deposits with banks and all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. Cash equivalents are stated at cost
plus accrued interest, which approximates fair value.                  Depreciation, amortization and intangible asset valuation:  Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost
and depreciated by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Machinery and equipment are depreciated over periods up to 15 years, and buildings and building improvements over periods up to 50 years.      Definite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Altria Group, Inc. is required to conduct an annual review of
goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment. Goodwill impair
- -  

27    

Table of Contents  

ment testing requires a comparison between the carrying value and fair value of each reporting unit. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, goodwill is considered impaired. The amount of
impairment loss is measured as the difference between the carrying value and implied fair value of goodwill, which is determined using discounted cash flows. Impairment testing for indefinite-lived intangible assets requires a comparison between the
fair value and carrying value of the intangible asset. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, Altria Group, Inc. completed its annual review of
goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and no charges resulted from these reviews.                  Environmental costs:  Altria Group, Inc. is subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the
environment. Altria Group, Inc. provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Such accruals are adjusted as new information
develops or circumstances change.      While it is not possible to quantify with certainty the potential impact of actions regarding
environmental remediation and compliance efforts that subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. may undertake in the future, in the opinion of management, environmental remediation and compliance costs are not expected to have a material adverse effect on
Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.                  Finance leases:  Income attributable to leveraged leases is initially recorded as unearned income and subsequently
recognized as revenue over the terms of the respective leases at constant after-tax rates of return on the positive net investment balances. Investments in leveraged leases are stated net of related nonrecourse debt obligations.      Income attributable to direct finance leases is initially recorded as unearned income and subsequently recognized as revenue over the terms of the
respective leases at constant pre-tax rates of return on the net investment balances.      Finance leases include unguaranteed residual
values that represent PMCC s estimates at lease inception as to the fair values of assets under lease at the end of the non-cancelable lease terms. The estimated residual values are reviewed annually by PMCC s management, which includes
analysis of a number of factors, including activity in the relevant industry. If necessary, revisions are recorded to reduce the residual values. Such reviews resulted in no adjustments in 2009 and 2008. A decrease of $11 million to PMCC s net
revenues and results of operations was recorded in 2007.         
         Foreign currency translation:  Altria Group, Inc. translated the results of operations of its foreign subsidiaries using average exchange rates during each
period, whereas balance sheet accounts were translated using exchange rates at the end of each period. Currency translation adjustments were recorded as a component of stockholders  equity. The accumulated currency translation adjustments
related to Kraft and PMI were recognized and recorded in connection with the Kraft and PMI distributions. Transaction gains and losses

were recorded in the consolidated statements of earnings and were not significant for any of the periods presented.                  Guarantees:  Altria Group,
Inc. recognizes a liability for the fair value of the obligation of qualifying guarantee activities. See Note 22.  Contingencies  for a further discussion of guarantees.                  Hedging instruments: 
Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets as either assets or liabilities. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period either in accumulated other comprehensive earnings
(losses) or in earnings, depending on whether a derivative is designated and effective as part of a hedge transaction and, if it is, the type of hedge transaction. Gains and losses on derivative instruments reported in accumulated other
comprehensive earnings (losses) are reclassified to the consolidated statements of earnings in the periods in which operating results are affected by the hedged item. Cash flows from hedging instruments are classified in the same manner as the
affected hedged item in the consolidated statements of cash flows. At December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. had no derivative financial instruments remaining.                  Impairment of long-lived
assets:  Altria Group, Inc. reviews long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable.
Altria Group, Inc. performs undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if an impairment exists. For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment for assets held for use, Altria Group, Inc. groups assets and liabilities at the
lowest level for which cash flows are separately identifiable. If an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value. Impairment losses on assets to be disposed of, if any, are based on the estimated
proceeds to be received, less costs of disposal.          
        Income taxes:  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities,
using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions.      On January 1, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of the FASB authoritative guidance which prescribes a recognition threshold and a
measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon
examination by taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. As a result of the January 1, 2007 adoption, Altria Group,
Inc. lowered its liability for unrecognized tax benefits by $1,021 million. This resulted in an increase to stockholders  equity of $857 million

28    

Table of Contents  

($835 million, net of noncontrolling interest), a reduction of Kraft s goodwill of $85 million and a reduction of federal deferred tax benefits of $79 million.      On January 1, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of the FASB authoritative guidance requiring the revenue recognition calculation to
be reevaluated if there is a revision to the projected timing of income tax cash flows generated by a leveraged lease. The adoption of this guidance by Altria Group, Inc. resulted in a reduction to stockholders  equity of $124 million as of
January 1, 2007.                  Inventories:  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The last-in, first-out ( LIFO ) method is used to cost substantially all tobacco inventories. The
cost of the remaining inventories is determined using the first-in, first-out ( FIFO ) and average cost methods. It is a generally recognized industry practice to classify leaf tobacco and wine inventories as current assets although part
of such inventory, because of the duration of the curing and aging process, ordinarily would not be utilized within one year.                  Marketing costs:  The consumer products businesses promote their
products with advertising, consumer incentives and trade promotions. Such programs include, but are not limited to, discounts, coupons, rebates, in-store display incentives and volume-based incentives. Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
Consumer incentive and trade promotion activities are recorded as a reduction of revenues based on amounts estimated as being due to customers and consumers at the end of a period, based principally on historical utilization and redemption rates.
For interim reporting purposes, advertising and certain consumer incentive expenses are charged to operations as a percentage of sales, based on estimated sales and related expenses for the full year.                  Revenue recognition:  The consumer products businesses recognize revenues, net of sales incentives and sales returns, and including shipping and handling charges billed to customers, upon shipment or
delivery of goods when title and risk of loss pass to customers. Payments received in advance of revenue recognition are deferred and recorded in other accrued liabilities until revenue is recognized. Altria Group, Inc. s consumer products
businesses also include excise taxes billed to customers in revenues. Shipping and handling costs are classified as part of cost of sales.                  Software costs:  Altria Group, Inc. capitalizes certain computer
software and software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining computer software for internal use. Capitalized software costs are included in

property, plant and equipment on the consolidated balance sheets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the software, which do not exceed five years.
           
      Stock-based compensation:  Altria Group, Inc. measures compensation cost for all stock-based awards at fair value on date of grant and recognizes compensation expense over the service periods for awards expected
to vest. The fair value of restricted stock and deferred stock is determined based on the number of shares granted and the market value at date of grant. The fair value of stock options is determined using a modified Black-Scholes methodology.
            Note 3.                                 
                                         
                         Acquisitions:                  UST Acquisition:  On January 6, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding common stock of UST, in exchange for $69.50 in cash for each outstanding share of UST common stock.
Additionally, each employee stock option of UST that was outstanding and unexercised was cancelled in exchange for the right to receive the difference between the exercise price for such option and $69.50. The transaction was valued at approximately
$11.7 billion, which represented a purchase price of $10.4 billion and included the assumption of approximately $1.3 billion of debt, which together with acquisition-related costs and payments of approximately $0.6 billion (consisting primarily of
structuring and arrangement fees, the funding of UST s non-qualified pension plans, investment banking fees and the early retirement of UST s revolving credit facility), represent a total cash outlay of approximately $11 billion.
     In connection with the acquisition of UST, Altria Group, Inc. had in place at December 31, 2008, a 364-day term bridge loan
facility ( Bridge Facility ). On January 6, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. borrowed the entire available amount of $4.3 billion under the Bridge Facility, which was used along with available cash of $6.7 billion, representing the net
proceeds from the issuances of senior unsecured long-term notes in November and December 2008, to fund the acquisition of UST. As discussed in Note 11.  Long-Term Debt , in February 2009, Altria Group, Inc. issued $4.2 billion of senior
unsecured long-term notes. The net proceeds from the issuance of these notes, along with available cash, were used to prepay all of the outstanding borrowings under the Bridge Facility. Upon such prepayment, the Bridge Facility was terminated.

29    

Table of Contents  

UST s financial position and results of operations have been consolidated with Altria Group, Inc. as of January 6, 2009. The following unaudited
supplemental pro forma data present consolidated information of Altria Group, Inc. as if the acquisition of UST had been consummated on January 1, 2008. The pro forma results are not necessarily indicative of what actually would have occurred
if the acquisition and related borrowings had been consummated on January 1, 2008.       
    Pro forma results of Altria Group, Inc., for the year ended December 31,
2009 assuming the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2009, would not be materially different from the actual results reported for the year ended December 31, 2009.      The pro forma amounts reflect the application of the following adjustments as if the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2008:            
   additional depreciation and amortization expense that would have been charged assuming the fair value adjustments to property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets had been applied from January 1, 2008;            
   additional interest expense and structuring and arrangement fees that would have been incurred assuming all borrowing arrangements used to fund the acquisition had been in place as of January 1, 2008;            
   restructuring costs incurred to restructure and integrate UST operations;               transaction costs associated with the acquisition; and            
   increased cost of sales, reflecting the fair value adjustment of UST s subsidiaries  inventory sold during the year.      During the fourth quarter of 2009, the allocation of purchase price relating to the acquisition of UST was completed.

The following amounts represent the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the UST acquisition:       
    The excess of the purchase price paid by Altria Group, Inc.
over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in the acquisition of UST primarily reflects the value of adding USSTC and its subsidiaries to Altria Group, Inc. s family of tobacco operating companies (PM USA and Middleton), with
leading brands in cigarettes, smokeless products and machine-made large cigars. The acquisition is anticipated to generate approximately $300 million in annual synergies by 2011, driven primarily by reduced selling, general and administrative, and
corporate expenses. None of the goodwill or other intangible assets will be deductible for tax purposes.      The assets acquired,
liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests of UST have been measured as of the acquisition date. In valuing trademarks, Altria Group, Inc. estimated the fair value using a discounted cash flow methodology. No material contingent liabilities
were recognized as of the acquisition date because the acquisition date fair value of such contingencies cannot be determined, and the contingencies are not both probable and reasonably estimable. Additionally, costs incurred to effect the
acquisition, as well as costs to restructure UST, are being recognized as expenses in the periods in which the costs are incurred. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, Altria Group, Inc. incurred acquisition-related charges, as well
as restructuring and integration costs, consisting of the following:       

30    

Table of Contents  

In 2010, Altria Group, Inc. expects to incur approximately $50 million of restructuring and
integration costs related to the acquisition of UST.                  Middleton Acquisition  :  On December 11, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding stock of
Middleton, a manufacturer of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco, for $2.9 billion in cash. The acquisition was financed with existing cash. Middleton s balance sheet was consolidated with Altria Group, Inc. s as of
December 31, 2007. Earnings from December 12, 2007 to December 31, 2007, the amounts of which were insignificant, were included in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated operating results for the year ended December 31, 2007.
     During the first quarter of 2008, the allocation of purchase price relating to the acquisition of Middleton was completed. Assets
purchased consist primarily of indefinite-lived intangible assets related to acquired brands of $2.6 billion, definite-lived intangible assets of $0.1 billion, goodwill of $0.1 billion and other assets of $0.1 billion, partially offset by accrued
liabilities assumed in the acquisition.           Note 4.                                     
                                         
                     Divestitures:      As discussed in Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation , on March 28, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its interest in PMI to Altria Group,
Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution, and on March 30, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution.      Summarized financial information for discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows:       

Note 5.                                 
                                         
                         Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,
net:      Goodwill and other intangible assets, net, by segment were as follows:       
    Intangible assets were as follows:       
    Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist substantially of
trademarks from the January 2009 acquisition of UST ($9.1 billion) and the December 2007 acquisition of Middleton ($2.6 billion). Definite-lived intangible assets consist primarily of customer relationships and certain cigarette trademarks. Pre-tax
amortization expense for definite-lived intangible assets during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, was $20 million and $7 million, respectively. There was no pre-tax amortization expense for intangible assets during the year ended
December 31, 2007. Annual amortization expense for each of the next five years is estimated to be approximately $20 million, assuming no additional transactions occur that require the amortization of intangible assets.      Goodwill relates to the January 2009 acquisition of UST and the December 2007 acquisition of Middleton. The change in goodwill and gross carrying
amount of other intangible assets is as follows:       

31    

Table of Contents  

The changes in goodwill and other intangible assets during 2008 resulted from revisions to the purchase price allocation as appraisals for the acquisition
of Middleton were

finalized during the first quarter of 2008. See Note 3.  Acquisitions  for a discussion of the UST and Middleton acquisitions .    

Note 6.                                 
                                         
                         Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation
and Integration Costs:      Pre-tax asset impairment, exit, implementation and integration costs for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007
consisted of the following:       

The movement in the severance liability and details of asset impairment and exit costs for Altria
Group, Inc. for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was as follows:       

Other charges in the table above for 2009 and 2008 primarily represent other employee termination
benefits including pension and postretirement, as well as PMI spin-off fees in 2008. Charges, net, in the table above include the reversal of $14 million of severance associated with the Manufacturing Optimization Program in 2008.          Integration and Restructuring Program:     Altria Group, Inc. has largely completed a restructuring program that commenced in
December 2008, and was expanded in August 2009. Pursuant to this program, Altria Group, Inc. has restructured its corporate, manufacturing, and sales and marketing services functions as it completes the integration of UST into its operations and
continues to focus on optimizing company-wide cost structures in light of ongoing declines in U.S. cigarette volumes. As part of this restructuring, Altria Group, Inc. created two new service organizations during the second quarter of 2009. Altria
Sales   Distribution Inc. serves as agent for Altria Group, Inc. s three tobacco operating companies in their interactions with tobacco wholesalers and retailers. Altria Consumer Engagement Services Inc. executes

32    

Table of Contents  

one-to-one adult consumer programs for the three tobacco operating companies.      As a
result of this restructuring program, Altria Group, Inc. incurred aggregate pre-tax charges of $328 million in 2009 and expects to incur approximately $50 million in 2010. The 2009 charges are primarily related to employee separation costs, lease
exit costs, relocation of employees, asset impairments and other costs related to the integration of UST operations. Substantially all of these charges will result in cash expenditures. The $328 million in pre-tax charges for this program was
reported in the cigarettes segment, smokeless products segment, wine segment, financial services      segment and Altria Group, Inc. as pre-tax charges of
$18 million, $236 million, $9 million, $4 million and $61 million, respectively. These charges included total exit costs of $250 million, integration costs of $49 million and asset impairment charges of $29 million. For the year ended
December 31, 2008, the cigarettes segment, financial services segment and Altria Group, Inc. reported pre-tax charges for this program of $48 million, $2 million and $76 million, respectively, for total exit costs of $126 million.   
  The pre-tax integration costs were included in marketing, administration and research costs on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of
earnings for the year ended December 31, 2009. Total pre-tax charges incurred since the inception of the program were $454 million. Cash payments related to the program of $221 million were made during the year ended December 31, 2009, for
a total of $221 million since inception.          Headquarters Relocation:     During 2008, in connection with the
spin-off of PMI, Altria Group, Inc. restructured its corporate headquarters, which included the relocation of Altria Group, Inc. s corporate headquarters functions to Richmond, Virginia. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008,
Altria Group, Inc. incurred pre-tax charges of $30 million and $219 million, respectively, for this program. Total pre-tax charges incurred since the inception of this restructuring were $249 million as of December 31, 2009. These charges
consist primarily of employee separation costs. Substantially all of these charges will result in cash expenditures. Cash payments related to this restructuring of $65 million and $136 million were made during the years ended December 31, 2009
and 2008, respectively, for a total of $201 million since inception.      For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, general
corporate exit costs also included $55 million and $81 million, respectively, of investment banking and legal fees associated with the PMI and Kraft spin-offs, as well as $17 million for the streamlining of various corporate functions in 2007.

Manufacturing Optimization Program:   PM USA ceased production at its Cabarrus, North
Carolina manufacturing facility and completed the consolidation of its cigarette manufacturing capacity into its Richmond, Virginia facility on July 29, 2009. PM USA took this action to address ongoing cigarette volume declines including the
impact of the FET increase enacted in early 2009. PM USA expects to complete the de-commissioning of the Cabarrus facility during 2010.      As a result of this program, which commenced in 2007, PM USA expects to incur total pre-tax charges of approximately $785 million, of which $725 million have been incurred as of December 31, 2009 and are reflected in the cigarettes
segment. Total pre-tax charges for this program consist of employee separation costs of $343 million, accelerated depreciation of $282 million and other charges of $160 million, primarily related to the relocation of employees and equipment, net of
estimated gains on sales of land and buildings. Approximately $400 million of the total pre-tax charges are expected to result in cash expenditures.      PM USA recorded pre-tax charges for this program as follows:       
    Pre-tax implementation costs related to this program were
primarily related to accelerated depreciation and were included in cost of sales in the consolidated statements of earnings for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      Pre-tax charges of approximately $100 million are expected during 2010 for the program. Cash payments related to the program of $210 million, $85
million and $11 million were made during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, for a total of $306 million since inception.           Note 7.                                     
                                         
                     Inventories:      The cost of approximately 75% and 94% of inventories in 2009 and 2008, respectively, was determined using the LIFO method. The stated LIFO amounts of inventories were
approximately $0.8 billion and $0.7 billion lower than the current cost of inventories at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

33    

Table of Contents  

Note 8.                                     
                                         
                     Investment in SABMiller:      At December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. held a 27.3% economic and voting interest in SABMiller. Altria Group, Inc. s investment in SABMiller is being
accounted for under the equity method.      Earnings from Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller consisted of the
following:       
    Altria Group, Inc. s earnings from its equity investment
in SABMiller for the year ended December 31, 2009 included pre-tax gains of $193 million due primarily to the issuance of 60 million shares of common stock by SABMiller in connection with its acquisition of the remaining noncontrolling
interest in its Polish subsidiary.   

Summary financial data of SABMiller is as follows:       
     
    The fair value, based on market quotes, of Altria Group,
Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller at December 31, 2009, was $12.7 billion, as compared with its carrying value of $5.0 billion. The fair value, based on market quotes, of Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller at
December 31, 2008, was $7.3 billion, as compared with its carrying value of $4.3 billion.   

Note 9.                                 

Finance Assets, net:      In 2003, PMCC ceased making new investments and began focusing exclusively on managing its existing portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize gains and generate cash flow from asset sales and related activities. Accordingly,
PMCC s operating companies income will fluctuate over time as investments mature or are sold. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, proceeds from asset sales and bankruptcy recoveries totaled $793 million, $403 million and $486 million, respectively, and
gains included in operating companies income totaled $257 million, $87 million and $274 million, respectively.   

Included in the proceeds for 2007 were partial recoveries of amounts previously charged to earnings
in the allowance for losses related to PMCC s airline exposure. The operating companies income associated with these recoveries, which is included in the gains shown above, was $214 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.   
  At December 31, 2009, finance assets, net, of $4,803 million were comprised of an investment in finance leases of $5,069 million, reduced by
the allowance for losses of $266 million. At December 31, 2008, finance assets, net, of $5,451 million were comprised of an investment in finance leases of $5,743 million and an other receivable of $12 million, reduced by the allowance for
losses of $304 million.   

A summary of the net investment
in finance leases at December 31, before allowance for losses, was as follows:       

For leveraged leases, rentals receivable, net, represent unpaid rentals, net of principal and
interest payments on third-party nonrecourse debt. PMCC s rights to rentals receivable are subordinate to the third-party nonrecourse debtholders, and the leased equipment is pledged as collateral to

the debtholders. The payment of the nonrecourse debt is collateralized by lease payments due under the lease and the leased property, and is nonrecourse to the general assets of PMCC. As required
by U.S. GAAP, the third-party nonrecourse debt of $9.2 billion and $11.5 billion at December 31, 2009

34    

Table of Contents  

and 2008, respectively, has been offset against the related rentals receivable. There were no leases with contingent rentals in 2009 and 2008.      At December 31, 2009, PMCC s investment in finance leases was principally comprised of the following investment categories: rail and surface
transport (28%), aircraft (25%), electric power (23%), manufacturing (12%), and real estate (12%). Investments located outside the United States, which are all U.S. dollar-denominated, represent 22% and 23% of PMCC s investment in finance
leases at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.      Rentals receivable in excess of debt service requirements on third-party
nonrecourse debt related to leveraged leases and rentals receivable from direct finance leases at December 31, 2009, were as follows:       
    Included in net revenues for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, were leveraged lease revenues of $341 million, $210 million and $163 million, respectively, and direct finance lease revenues of $7 million, $5 million and $15 million, respectively. Income tax expense on leveraged lease
revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, was $119 million, $72 million and $57 million, respectively.      Income
from investment tax credits on leveraged leases, and initial direct and executory costs on direct finance leases were not significant during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.      The activity in the allowance for losses on finance assets for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was as follows:       
    PMCC leases under several lease arrangements various types of
automotive manufacturing equipment to Motors Liquidation Company, formerly known as General Motors Corporation ( GM ), which filed for bankruptcy on June 1, 2009. Since GM s bankruptcy filing, PMCC has not recorded income on the
GM leases. In the third quarter of 2009, GM rejected one of the leases, which resulted in a $49 million write-off against PMCC s allowance for losses. The remaining GM leases, which expire from 2012 through 2023, represent approximately 3% of
PMCC s portfolio of finance assets at December 31, 2009.   

On October 30, 2009 General Motors LLC ( New GM ), which is the successor of GM s
North American automobile business, signed several agreements with PMCC. Pursuant to these agreements, New GM has agreed to lease substantially all the remaining equipment under the same terms as GM, except for a rebate of a portion of future rents.
The agreements will become effective upon court approval of the assignment of the leases to New GM, which PMCC anticipates will occur in the first quarter 2010. GM will reject one additional lease that will not be assigned to New GM. The impact of
the rent rebates and the additional lease rejection have been factored into PMCC s assessment of the allowance for losses at December 31, 2009. Foreclosure of rejected lease properties will result in an acceleration of deferred tax
payments on such leases.      All other PMCC lessees are current on their lease payment obligations. It is possible that adverse developments
may require PMCC to increase its allowance for losses in the future.      During 2008, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $100
million primarily as a result of credit rating downgrades of certain lessees and financial market conditions.      The net impact to the
allowance for losses for 2007 related primarily to various airline leases. Amounts recovered of $129 million in 2007 related to partial recoveries of amounts charged to earnings in the allowance for losses in prior years. In addition in 2007, PMCC
recovered $85 million related to amounts previously charged to earnings and written-off in prior years. In total, these recoveries resulted in additional operating companies income of $214 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Acceleration of taxes on the foreclosures of leveraged leases written off amounted to approximately $50 million in 2007. There were no foreclosures in 2009 and 2008.      PMCC s portfolio remains diversified by lessee, investment category and asset type. As of December 31, 2009, 74% of PMCC s lessees were investment grade as defined by Moody s Investors Service,
Inc. ( Moody s ) and Standard   Poor s Ratings Services ( Standard   Poor s ). Excluding aircraft lease investments, 87% of PMCC s lessees were investment grade.      At December 31, 2009 PMCC s portfolio included five aircraft under leveraged leases with Mesa Airlines, Inc. ( Mesa ) with a
finance asset balance of $21 million. PMCC s interest in these leases was secured by letters of credit issued by Citicorp North America, Inc. On January 5, 2010, Mesa filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. As a result of the
bankruptcy filing PMCC drew on the letters of credit and recovered its outstanding investment.      PMCC has one remaining transaction with
indirect exposure to Ambac Assurance Corporation, a credit support provider whose credit rating remains below investment grade. This risk is mitigated by the underlying strength of the lessee and the quality of the leased asset.      See Note 22.  Contingencies , for a discussion of the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) disallowance of certain benefits pertaining to
several PMCC leveraged lease transactions.   

35    

Table of Contents  

Note 10.                                     
                                         
                     Short-Term Borrowings and Borrowing      Arrangements:      At December 31, 2009 and 2008, Altria Group, Inc.
had no short-term borrowings.      At December 31, 2009, the credit lines for Altria Group, Inc. and related activity were as follows:
      
    On November 20, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. entered into a
senior unsecured 364-day revolving credit agreement (the  364-Day Agreement ) and a senior unsecured 3-year revolving credit agreement (the  3-Year Agreement  and, together with the 364-Day Agreement, the  Revolving Credit
Agreements ). The 364-Day Agreement provides for borrowings up to an aggregate principal amount of $0.6 billion and expires on November 19, 2010. The 3-Year Agreement provides for borrowings up to an aggregate principal amount of $2.4
billion and expires on November 20, 2012. Pricing under the Revolving Credit Agreements may be modified in the event of a change in the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long- term senior unsecured debt. Interest rates on borrowings under the
Revolving Credit Agreements will be based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) plus a percentage equal to Altria Group, Inc. s credit default swap spread subject to certain minimum rates and maximum rates based on the higher
of the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt from Standard   Poor s and Moody s. The applicable minimum and maximum rates based on Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt ratings at
December 31, 2009 are 2.0% and 4.0%, respectively. The Revolving Credit Agreements do not include any other rating triggers, nor do they contain any provisions that could require the posting of collateral.      The Revolving Credit Agreements replace Altria Group, Inc. s prior $3.4 billion 5-year revolving credit agreement, which was due to expire on
April 15, 2010, but was terminated effective November 20, 2009. The Revolving Credit Agreements will be used for general corporate purposes and to support Altria Group, Inc. s commercial paper issuances. The Revolving Credit
Agreements require that Altria Group, Inc. maintain (i) a ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) of not more than 3.0 to 1 and (ii) a ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of not
less than 4.0 to 1. At December 31, 2009, the ratios of debt to EBITDA and EBITDA to interest expense, calculated in accordance with the Revolving Credit Agreements, were 1.9 to 1.0 and 5.3 to 1.0, respectively. Altria Group, Inc. expects to
continue to meet its covenants associated with the Revolving Credit Agreements.      In connection with the acquisition of UST, Altria Group,
Inc. had in place at December 31, 2008, the Bridge Facility. On January 6, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. borrowed the entire

available amount of $4.3 billion under the Bridge Facility to fund in part the acquisition of UST (see Note 3.  Acquisitions ). As discussed in Note 11.  Long-Term Debt , in February
2009, Altria Group, Inc. issued $4.2 billion of senior unsecured long-term notes. The net proceeds from the issuance of these notes, along with available cash, were used to prepay all of the outstanding borrowings under the Bridge Facility. Upon
such prepayment, the Bridge Facility was terminated.      Any commercial paper of Altria Group, Inc. and borrowings under the Revolving
Credit Agreements are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by PM USA (see Note 23.  Condensed Consolidating Financial Information ).             Note 11.                                 
                                         
                         Long-Term Debt:      At December 31, 2009 and 2008, Altria Group, Inc. s long-term debt consisted of the following:       
    Aggregate maturities of long-term debt are as follows:
      
    The aggregate fair value, based substantially on readily
available quoted market prices, of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term debt at December 31, 2009, was $14.4 billion, as compared with its carrying value of $12.0 billion. The aggregate fair value, based substantially on readily available quoted
market prices, of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term debt at December 31, 2008, was $8.6 billion, as compared with its carrying value of $7.5 billion.       Altria Group, Inc. Senior Notes:  Altria Group, Inc. issued the following notes in 2008 and 2009:       November
2008 Issuance                $1.4 billion at 8.50%, due 2013, interest payable semi-annually;   

36    

Table of Contents  

$3.1 billion at 9.70%, due 2018, interest payable semi-annually; and               $1.5 billion at 9.95%, due 2038, interest payable semi-annually.       December 2008 Issuance                $775 million at 7.125%, due 2010, interest payable semi-annually.       February 2009 Issuance                $525 million at 7.75%, due 2014, interest payable semi-annually;            
   $2.2 billion at 9.25%, due 2019, interest payable semi-annually; and               $1.5 billion at 10.20%, due 2039, interest payable semi-annually.      The net proceeds from the issuances of senior unsecured long-term notes in November and December 2008 were used along with borrowings under the Bridge
Facility to fund the acquisition of UST. The net proceeds from the issuances of senior unsecured long-term notes in February 2009, along with available cash, were used to prepay all of the outstanding borrowings under the Bridge Facility.
     The notes are Altria Group, Inc. s senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of Altria Group,
Inc. s existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. The interest rate payable on each series of notes is subject to adjustment from time to time if the rating assigned to the notes of such series by Moody s or Standard  
Poor s is downgraded (or subsequently upgraded) as and to the extent set forth in the terms of the notes. Upon the occurrence of both (i) a change of control of Altria Group, Inc. and (ii) the notes ceasing to be rated investment
grade by each of Moody s, Standard   Poor s and Fitch Ratings ( Fitch ) within a specified time period, Altria Group, Inc. will be required to make an offer to purchase the notes of each series at a price equal to 101%
of the aggregate principal amount of such series, plus accrued interest to the date of repurchase as and to the extent set forth in the terms of the notes.      The obligations of Altria Group, Inc. under the notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by PM USA (see Note 23.  Condensed Consolidating Financial Information ).       UST Senior Notes:  At December 31, 2009, UST s senior notes consisted of the following:            
   $600 million senior notes at 6.625%, due 2012, interest payable semi-annually; and               $300 million senior notes at 5.75%, due 2018, interest payable semi-annually.
     UST senior notes of $200 million and $40 million matured and were repaid in June 2009.      The UST notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of UST s existing and future senior unsecured and
unsubordinated indebtedness. With respect to the $300 million senior notes, upon the

occurrence of both (i) a change of control of UST and (ii) these notes ceasing to be rated investment grade by each of Moody s and Standard   Poor s within a
specified time period, UST would be required to make an offer to purchase these notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such series, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase as and to the extent set
forth in the terms of these notes.       Other Consumer Products Debt:  A subsidiary of PM USA repaid a $135 million term loan that matured in May 2009.
      Financial Services Debt:  Financial services debt of $500 million matured and was repaid in July 2009.       Tender Offer for Altria Group, Inc. Notes:  In connection with the spin-off of PMI, in the first quarter of 2008, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiary, Altria
Finance (Cayman Islands) Ltd. (dissolved in December 2009), completed tender offers to purchase for cash $2.3 billion of notes and debentures denominated in U.S. dollars, and      373 million in euro-denominated bonds, equivalent to $568 million in U.S. dollars.      As a
result of the tender offers and consent solicitations, Altria Group, Inc. recorded a pre-tax loss of $393 million, which included tender and consent fees of $371 million, on the early extinguishment of debt in the first quarter of 2008.   
       Note 12.                                     
                                         
                     Capital Stock:      Shares of authorized common stock are 12 billion; issued, repurchased and outstanding shares were as follows:       
    At December 31, 2009, 53,238,226 shares of common stock
were reserved for stock options and other stock awards under Altria Group, Inc. s stock plans, and 10 million shares of Serial Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value, were authorized, none of which have been issued.   

37    

Table of Contents  

          Note 13.                                 

Stock Plans:      Under
the Altria Group, Inc. 2005 Performance Incentive Plan (the  2005 Plan ), Altria Group, Inc. may grant to eligible employees stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, deferred stock, and other stock-based awards, as well
as cash-based annual and long-term incentive awards. Up to 50 million shares of common stock may be issued under the 2005 Plan. In addition, Altria Group, Inc. may grant up to one million shares of common stock to members of the Board of
Directors who are not employees of Altria Group, Inc. under the 2005 Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the  2005 Directors Plan ). Shares available to be granted under the 2005 Plan and the 2005 Directors Plan at
December 31, 2009 were 36,668,029 and 835,253 respectively.      As more fully described in Note 1.  Background and Basis of
Presentation , during 2008 and 2007 certain modifications were made to stock options, restricted stock and deferred stock as a result of the PMI and Kraft spin-offs.      Altria Group, Inc. has not granted stock options to employees since 2002. Under certain circumstances, senior executives who exercised outstanding stock options using shares to pay the option exercise price and
taxes received Executive Ownership Stock Options ( EOSOs ) equal to the number of shares tendered. EOSOs were granted at an exercise price of not less than fair market value on the date of the grant, and became exercisable six months after
the grant date. This feature ceased during 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. granted 0.5 million EOSOs.       Stock Option Plan       In connection with the PMI and Kraft spin-offs, Altria Group, Inc. employee stock options were modified through the
issuance of PMI employee stock options (in connection with the PMI spin-off) and Kraft stock options (in connection with the Kraft spin-off), and the adjustment of the stock option exercise prices for the Altria Group, Inc. awards. For each employee
stock option outstanding, the aggregate intrinsic value of the option immediately after each spin-off was not greater than the aggregate intrinsic value of the option immediately before each spin-off. Because the Black-Scholes fair values of the
awards immediately before and immediately after each spin-off were equivalent, no incremental compensation expense was recorded as a result of the modifications of the Altria Group, Inc. awards.      Pre-tax compensation cost and the related tax benefit for stock option awards totaled $9 million and $3 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2007. Pre-tax compensation cost for stock option awards included $1 million in 2007 related to employees of discontinued operations. The fair value of the awards was determined using a modified Black-Scholes methodology using the
following weighted average assumptions:       

Altria Group, Inc. stock option activity was as follows for the year ended December 31, 2009:
      
    As more fully described in Note 1.  Background and Basis of
Presentation , the weighted average exercise prices shown in the table above were reduced as a result of the PMI and Kraft spin-offs.      The aggregate intrinsic value shown in the table above was based on the December 31, 2009 closing price for Altria Group, Inc. s common stock of $19.63. The weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted during the year
ended December 31, 2007 was $15.55. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $87 million, $119 million and $454 million, respectively.       Restricted and Deferred Stock Plans       Altria Group, Inc. may
grant shares of restricted stock and deferred stock to eligible employees, giving them in most instances all of the rights of stockholders, except that they may not sell, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber such shares. Such shares are subject to
forfeiture if certain employment conditions are not met. Restricted and deferred stock generally vests on the third anniversary of the grant date.      The fair value of the restricted shares and deferred shares at the date of grant is amortized to expense ratably over the restriction period, which is generally three years. Altria Group, Inc. recorded pre-tax
compensation expense related to restricted stock and deferred stock granted to employees of its continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 of $61 million, $38 million and $80 million, respectively. The deferred
tax benefit recorded related to this compensation expense was $24 million, $15 million and $29 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The unamortized compensation expense related to Altria Group, Inc.
restricted stock and deferred stock was $80 million at December 31, 2009 and is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2 years.   

38    

Table of Contents  

Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock activity was as follows for the year ended
December 31, 2009:       
    The grant
price information for restricted stock and deferred stock awarded prior to January 30, 2008 reflects historical market prices which are not adjusted to reflect the PMI spin-off, and the grant price information for restricted and deferred stock
awarded prior to January 31, 2007 reflects historical market prices which are not adjusted to reflect the Kraft spin-off. As discussed in Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation , as a result of the PMI spin-off, holders of
restricted stock and deferred stock awarded prior to January 30, 2008 retained their existing award and received restricted stock or deferred stock of PMI. In addition, as a result of the Kraft spin-off, holders of restricted and deferred stock
awarded prior to January 31, 2007 retained their existing award and received restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft Class A common stock.      The weighted-average grant date fair value of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock granted during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $95 million, $56 million and $150
million, respectively, or $16.71, $22.98 and $65.62 per restricted or deferred share, respectively. The total fair value of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock vested during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007
was $46 million, $140 million and $184 million, respectively.           Note 14.                                     
                                         
                     Earnings per Share:      Effective January 1, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. adopted the FASB authoritative guidance that requires that unvested share-based payment awards containing
nonforfeitable rights to dividends be included as participating securities in the earnings per share ( EPS ) calculation pursuant to the two class method.   

The calculations of basic and diluted EPS reflect the adoption of this guidance and, accordingly,
prior period calculations have been adjusted retrospectively. As a result, basic EPS from discontinued operations and basic EPS from net earnings each decreased by $0.01 and $0.02 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Basic EPS from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 remained unchanged. Diluted EPS for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 remained unchanged.      Basic and diluted EPS from continuing and discontinued operations were calculated using the following:       
    For the 2009 computation, 0.7 million stock options were
excluded from the calculation of weighted average shares for diluted EPS because their effects were antidilutive. For the 2008 and 2007 computations, there were no antidilutive stock options.   

39    

Table of Contents  

        Note 15.                                               

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Earnings (Losses):      The following table sets forth the changes in each component of accumulated other
comprehensive earnings (losses) attributable to Altria Group, Inc.:       
         Note 16.                                     

Income Taxes:      Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, and provision for income taxes consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:       
    Altria Group, Inc. s U.S. subsidiaries join in the
filing of a U.S. federal consolidated income tax return. The U.S. federal statute of limitations remains open for the year 2000 and forward with years 2000 to 2006 currently under examination by the IRS. State jurisdictions have statutes of
limitations generally ranging from 3 to 5 years. Altria Group, Inc. is currently under examination in various states.         

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:

(in millions)     

Balance at January 1, 2007   
     
  $1,053   
 
    Additions based on tax positions related to the current year   
     
  70   
 
    Additions for tax positions of prior years   
     
  22   
 
    Reductions for tax positions of prior years   
     
  (28)   
 
    Reductions for tax positions due to lapse of statutes of limitations   
     
  (116)   
 
    Settlements   
     
  (21)   
 
    Reduction of state and foreign unrecognized tax benefits due to Kraft spin-off   
     
  (365)   

Balance at December 31, 2007   
     
  615   
 
    Additions based on tax positions related to the current year   
     
  50   
 
    Additions for tax positions of prior years   
     
  70   
 
    Reductions for tax positions of prior years   
     
  (10)   
 
    Settlements   
     
  (2)   
 
    Reduction of state and foreign unrecognized tax benefits due to PMI spin-off   
     
  (54)   

Balance at December 31, 2008   
     
  669   
 
    Additions based on tax positions related to    

the current year   
     
   15    
 
    Additions for tax positions of prior years   
     
   34    
 
    Reductions for tax positions due to lapse of statutes of limitations   
     
   (22)    
 
    Reductions for tax positions of prior years   
     
   (87)    
 
    Settlements   
     
   (8)    

Balance at December 31, 2009   
     
   $   601    

40    

Table of Contents  

Unrecognized tax benefits and Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated liability for tax contingencies
were as follows:       
    The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized,
would impact the effective tax rate at December 31, 2009 was $548 million, along with $53 million affecting deferred taxes. However, the impact on net earnings from those unrecognized tax benefits that if recognized at December 31, 2009
would be $230 million, as a result of receivables from PMI and Kraft of $120 million and $198 million, respectively, discussed below. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate at
December 31, 2008 was $610 million, along with $59 million affecting deferred taxes. However, the impact on net earnings from those unrecognized tax benefits that if recognized at December 31, 2008 would be $216 million, as a result of
receivables from PMI and Kraft of $120 million and $274 million, respectively, discussed below.      Under the Tax Sharing Agreements between
Altria Group, Inc. and PMI, and between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft, PMI and Kraft are responsible for their respective pre-spin-off tax obligations. However, due to regulations governing the U.S. federal consolidated tax return, Altria Group, Inc.
remains severally liable for PMI s and Kraft s pre-spin-off federal taxes. As a result, Altria Group, Inc. continues to include $120 million and $198 million of unrecognized tax benefits for PMI and Kraft, respectively, in its liability
for uncertain tax positions, and corresponding receivables from PMI and Kraft of $120 million and $198 million, respectively, are included in other assets.      In the third quarter of 2009, the IRS, Kraft, and Altria Group, Inc. (as parent of, and as agent for, Kraft) executed a closing agreement that resolved certain Kraft tax matters arising out of the 2000 to 2003 IRS
audit of Altria Group, Inc. As a result of the closing agreement, income tax expense for 2009 included the benefit from the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest that are no longer required. This benefit was offset by a reduction to the
corresponding receivable from Kraft. The reduction in this receivable was recorded as an increase to marketing, administration and research costs on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31,
2009. As a result, there was no impact on Altria Group, Inc. s net earnings.   

Altria Group, Inc. recognizes accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions
as part of the tax provision. As of December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. had $327 million of accrued interest and penalties, of which approximately $39 million and $79 million related to PMI and Kraft, respectively, for which PMI and Kraft are
responsible under their respective Tax Sharing Agreements. The receivables from PMI and Kraft are included in other assets. As of December 31, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. had $302 million of accrued interest and penalties, of which approximately
$32 million and $100 million related to PMI and Kraft, respectively.      For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, Altria
Group, Inc. recognized in its consolidated statements of earnings $3 million, $41 million and $13 million, respectively, of interest expense associated with uncertain tax positions.      It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months certain state examinations will be resolved, which could result in a decrease in unrecognized
tax benefits and interest of approximately $13 million.      The effective income tax rate on pre-tax earnings from continuing operations
differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate for the following reasons for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:       
    The tax provision in 2009 includes tax benefits of $88 million
from the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest resulting from the execution of the closing agreement with the IRS discussed above. The tax provision in 2009 also includes a benefit of $53 million from the utilization of net operating
losses in the third quarter. The tax provision in 2008 includes net tax benefits of $58 million primarily from the reversal of tax accruals no longer required in the fourth quarter. The tax provision in 2007 includes net tax benefits of $111 million
related to the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest resulting from the expiration of statutes of limitations ($55 million in the third quarter and $56 million in the fourth quarter). The tax provision in 2007 also includes
$57 million related to the reversal of tax accruals no longer required in the fourth quarter.   

41    

Table of Contents  

The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to consumer products deferred income tax assets and liabilities consisted of the following at
December 31, 2009 and 2008:       
    Financial services deferred income tax liabilities are
primarily attributable to temporary differences relating to net investments in finance leases.      At December 31, 2009, Altria Group,
Inc. had state tax net operating losses of $2,483 million that, if unutilized, will expire in 2010 through 2029 and state tax credit carryforwards of $97 million which, if unutilized, will expire in 2010 through 2017. A valuation allowance is
recorded against certain state net operating losses and state tax credit carryforwards due to uncertainty regarding their utilization.             Note 17.                                 
                                         
                         Segment Reporting:      The products of Altria Group, Inc. s consumer products subsidiaries include cigarettes manufactured and sold by PM USA, smokeless products manufactured and sold
by USSTC and PM USA, machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco manufactured and sold by Middleton, and wine produced and distributed by Ste. Michelle. Another subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc., PMCC, maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct
finance leases.      As discussed in Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation , beginning with the first quarter of 2009, Altria
Group, Inc. revised its reportable segments. Altria Group, Inc. s reportable segments are cigarettes, smokeless products, cigars, wine and financial services.      Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker reviews operating companies income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Operating companies income for the segments excludes general
corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles. Interest and other debt expense, net (consumer products), and provision for income taxes are centrally managed at the corporate level and,

accordingly, such items are not presented by segment since they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability reviewed by Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker.
Information about total assets by segment is not disclosed because such information is not reported to or used by Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker. Segment goodwill and other intangible assets, net, are disclosed in Note 5.
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net.  The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.        Segment data were as follows:       
    PM USA, USSTC and Middleton s largest customer, McLane
Company, Inc., accounted for approximately 26%, 27% and 26% of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These net revenues were reported in the cigarettes, smokeless
products and cigars segments. Sales to

42    

Table of Contents  

three distributors accounted for approximately 64% of net revenues for the wine segment for the year ended December 31, 2009.      Items affecting the comparability of net revenues and operating companies income for the segments were as follows:                   Acquisitions     In January 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST, the results of which are reflected in the smokeless products and wine segments. In December 2007, Altria Group, Inc. acquired
Middleton, the results of which are reflected in the cigars segment (see Note 3.  Acquisitions ).                   UST Inventory Adjustment     In connection with the acquisition of UST, Altria Group,
Inc. s cost of sales during the year ended December 31, 2009 included $36 million ($15 million and $21 million in the smokeless products and wine segments, respectively), relating to the fair value purchase accounting adjustment of
UST s inventory at the acquisition date that was sold during 2009.                   Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs     See Note 6.  Asset Impairment, Exit,
Implementation and Integration Costs , for a breakdown of these costs by segment.                   Sales to PMI     Subsequent to the PMI spin-off, PM USA recorded net revenues of $298 million, from contract
volume manufactured for PMI under an agreement that terminated in the fourth quarter of 2008. For periods prior to the PMI spin-off, PM USA did not record contract volume manufactured for PMI in net revenues, but recorded the related profit, which
was immaterial, for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, in marketing, administration and research costs on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings. These amounts are reflected in the cigarettes segment.   
               PMCC Allowance for Losses     During 2009, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $15 million based on management s assessment of its portfolio including its exposure to GM. PMCC
increased its allowance for losses by $100 million during 2008, primarily as a result of credit rating downgrades of certain lessees and financial market conditions. See Note 9.  Finance Assets, net.                    Recoveries from Airline Industry Exposure     As discussed in Note 9.  Finance Assets, net , during 2007, PMCC recorded pre-tax gains of $214 million on the sale of its ownership
interests and bankruptcy claims in certain leveraged lease investments in aircraft, which represented a partial recovery, in cash, of amounts that had been previously written down.       

Note 18.                                 
                                         
                         Benefit Plans:      Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries sponsor noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all employees, except that as of January 1,
2008, new employees (excluding certain participants in UST plans) are not eligible to participate in the defined benefit plans, but instead are eligible for a company match in a defined contribution plan. In addition, Altria Group, Inc. and its
subsidiaries provide health care and other benefits to the majority of retired employees.      The plan assets and benefit obligations of
Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans and the benefit obligations of Altria Group, Inc. s postretirement plans are measured at December 31 of each year.      The amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive losses at December 31, 2009 consisted of the following:       
    The amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive losses
at December 31, 2008 consisted of the following:       

43    

Table of Contents  

The amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive losses at December 31, 2007 consisted of
the following:       
    The movements in other comprehensive earnings/losses during the
year ended December 31, 2009 were as follows:       

The movements in other comprehensive earnings/losses during the year ended December 31, 2008
were as follows:       
    The movements in other comprehensive earnings/losses during the
year ended December 31, 2007 were as follows:       

44    

Table of Contents  

Pension Plans         Obligations and Funded Status       The projected benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of Altria Group,
Inc. s pension plans at December 31, 2009 and 2008, were as follows:       
    The net pension liability recognized in Altria Group,
Inc. s consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, was as follows:       
    The accumulated benefit obligation, which represents benefits
earned to date, for the pension plans was $5.7 billion and $4.9 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.      At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, the accumulated benefit obligations were in excess of plan assets for all pension plans.      The following
weighted-average assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc. s benefit obligations under the plans at December 31:       
    The discount rates for Altria Group, Inc. s plans were
developed from a model portfolio of high-quality corporate bonds with durations that match the expected future cash flows of the benefit obligations.         

Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost       Net periodic pension cost consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:       
    During 2009 and 2008, termination, settlement and curtailment
shown in the table above primarily reflects termination benefits related to Altria Group, Inc. s restructuring programs. In 2009 these costs were partially offset by curtailment gains related to the restructuring of UST s operations
subsequent to the acquisition. During 2007, PM USA s announced closure of its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility, and workforce reduction programs resulted in curtailment losses and termination benefits of $37 million. For more
information on Altria Group, Inc. s restructuring programs, see Note 6.  Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs .      The amounts included in termination, settlement and curtailment in the table above for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were comprised of the following changes:       
    For the pension plans, the estimated net loss and prior service
cost that are expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive losses into net periodic benefit cost during 2010 are $135 million and $12 million, respectively.      The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc. s net pension cost for the years ended December 31:
      
    Altria Group, Inc. sponsors deferred profit-sharing plans
covering certain salaried, non-union and union employees. Contributions and costs are determined generally as a percentage of pre-tax earnings, as defined by the plans. Amounts charged to expense for these defined contribution plans totaled $106
million, $128 million and $130 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.   

45    

Table of Contents  

Plan Assets       Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans investment strategy is based on an expectation that equity securities will outperform debt securities over the long term. Altria Group, Inc. implements the investment
strategy in a prudent and risk controlled manner, consistent with the fiduciary requirements of Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, by investing retirement plan assets in a well diversified mix of equities, fixed income and other
securities that reflects the impact of the demographic mix of plan participants on the benefit obligation using a target asset allocation between equity securities and fixed income investments of 55%/45%. Accordingly, the composition of Altria
Group, Inc. s plan assets at December 31, 2009 was broadly characterized as an allocation between equity securities (59%), corporate bonds (19%), U.S. Treasury and Foreign Government securities (15%) and all other types of investments
(7%). Virtually all pension assets can be used to make monthly benefit payments.      Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans investment
strategy is accomplished by investing in U.S. and international equity commingled funds which are intended to mirror indices such as the Standard   Poor s 500 Index, Russell Small Cap Completeness Index, Morgan Stanley Capital
International ( MSCI ) Europe, Australasia, Far East ( EAFE ) Index, and MSCI Emerging Markets Index. Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans also invest in actively managed international equity securities of large, mid, and
small cap companies located in the developed markets of Europe, Australasia, and the Far East, and actively managed long duration fixed income securities that primarily include investment grade corporate bonds of companies from diversified
industries, U.S. Treasuries and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities ( TIPS ). The below investment grade securities represent 8% of the fixed income holdings or 3% of total plan assets. The allocation to emerging markets represents 4%
of the equity holdings or 2% of total plan assets. The allocation to real estate and private equity investments is immaterial.      Altria
Group, Inc. s pension plans risk management practices include ongoing monitoring of the asset allocation, investment performance, investment managers  compliance with their investment guidelines, periodic rebalancing between equity and
debt asset classes and annual actuarial re-measurement of plan liabilities.      Altria Group, Inc. s expected rate of return on pension
plan assets is determined by the plan assets  historical long-term investment performance, current asset allocation and estimates of future long-term returns by asset class. The forward looking estimates are consistent with the overall
long-term averages exhibited by returns on equity and fixed income securities.   

The fair values of Altria Group, Inc. s pension plan assets by asset category are as follows:
      Investments at Fair Value as of December 31, 2009        
    Level 3 holdings are immaterial to total plan assets.
     For the descriptions of the three levels of input used to measure fair value, see Note 21.  Fair Value Measurements .   
  Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for investments measured at fair value, including the general classification of such
investments pursuant to the fair value hierarchy.          
        U.S. and Foreign Government Securities:  U.S. and Foreign Government securities consist of investments in Treasury Nominal Bonds and Inflation Protected Securities,
investment grade municipal securities and unrated or non-investment grade municipal securities. Government securities, which are traded in the over-the-counter market, are valued based on a broker quote and are classified in level 2 of the fair
value hierarchy.                  Asset Backed Securities:  Asset backed securities are fixed income securities such as mortgage backed securities and auto loans that are collateralized by pools of underlying
assets that are unable to be sold individually. They are valued at a price which is based on a compilation of primarily observable market information or a broker quote in a non-active, over-the-counter market, and are classified in level 2 of the
fair value hierarchy.                  Corporate Debt Instruments:  Corporate debt instruments are valued at a price which is based on a compilation of primarily observable market information or a broker quote in the
over-the-counter market, and are classified in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.                  Common Stocks:  Common stocks are valued based on the price of the security as listed on an open active exchange on last
trade date, and are classified in level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.                  Registered Investment Companies:  Investments in mutual funds sponsored by a registered investment company are valued
based on exchange listed prices and are classified

46    

Table of Contents  

in level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Registered investment company funds which are designed specifically to meet Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans investment strategies but are not
traded on an active market are valued based on the net asset value (the  NAV ) of the underlying securities determined on the last business day of the period and are classified in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.                  Common/Collective Trusts:  Common/collective trusts consist of pools of investments used by institutional investors to obtain equity and fixed income market exposures by investing in funds which are
intended to mirror indices such as the Standard   Poor s 500 Index, Russell Small Cap Completeness Index, MSCI EAFE Index, MSCI Emerging Markets Index, and an actively managed long duration fixed income fund. They are valued on the
basis of the relative interest of each participating investor in the fair value of the underlying assets of each of the respective common collective trusts. The underlying assets are valued based on the NAV as provided by the investment account
manager and are classified in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.                  U.S. and Foreign Cash   Cash Equivalents:  Cash and cash equivalents are valued at cost which approximate fair
value, and are classified in level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Cash collateral for forward contracts on U.S. Treasury notes, which approximates fair value, is classified in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.       Cash Flows       Altria Group, Inc. presently makes, and plans to
make, contributions, to the extent that they are tax deductible and to pay benefits that relate to plans for salaried employees that cannot be funded under IRS regulations. Currently, Altria Group, Inc. anticipates making contributions of
approximately $20 million to $50 million in 2010 to its pension plans, based on current tax law. However, these estimates are subject to change as a result of changes in tax and other benefit laws, as well as asset performance significantly above or
below the assumed long-term rate of return on pension assets, or changes in interest rates.      The estimated future benefit payments from
the Altria Group, Inc. pension plans at December 31, 2009, were as follows:       

Postretirement Benefit Plans        Net postretirement health care costs consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:       
    During 2009 and 2008, termination and curtailment shown in the
table above primarily reflects termination benefits and curtailment losses related to Altria Group, Inc. s restructuring programs, including the restructuring of UST s operations subsequent to the acquisition. During 2007, Altria Group,
Inc. had curtailment gains related to PM USA s announced closure of its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility, which are included in termination and curtailment above. For further information on Altria Group, Inc. s restructuring
programs, see Note 6.  Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs.       The amounts included in termination and
curtailment shown in the table above for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were comprised of the following changes:       
    For the postretirement benefit plans, the estimated net loss
and prior service credit that are expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive losses into net postretirement health care costs during 2010 are $38 million and $(15) million, respectively.      The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc. s net postretirement cost for the years ended
December 31:       

47    

Table of Contents  

Altria Group, Inc. s postretirement health care plans are not funded. The changes in the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2009 and 2008, were as follows:       
    The current portion of Altria Group, Inc. s accrued
postretirement health care costs of $138 million and $127 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, is included in other accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.      The following assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc. s postretirement benefit obligations at December 31:       
    Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect
on the amounts reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects as of December 31, 2009:       

One-Percentage-Point       Increase    

One-Percentage-Point       Decrease    

Effect on total of service and interest cost   
      
  13.4  
  %   
     
  (10.8  
  )%    
 
    Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   
      
  9.9  

(8.1  
  )    

Altria Group, Inc. s estimated future benefit payments for
its postretirement health care plans at December 31, 2009, were as follows:       

Postemployment Benefit Plans        Altria Group, Inc. sponsors postemployment benefit plans covering substantially all salaried and certain hourly employees. The cost of these plans is
charged to expense over the working life of the covered employees. Net postemployment costs consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:       
     Other  postemployment cost shown in the table above
primarily reflects incremental severance costs related to Altria Group, Inc. s restructuring programs (See Note 6. Asset  Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs ).      For the postemployment benefit plans, the estimated net loss that is expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive losses into net
postemployment costs during 2010 is approximately $9 million.      Altria Group, Inc. s postemployment benefit plans are not funded. The
changes in the benefit obligations of the plans at December 31, 2009 and 2008, were as follows:       
    The accrued postemployment costs were determined using a
weighted average discount rate of 5.3% and 5.2% in 2009 and 2008, respectively, an assumed weighted average ultimate annual turnover rate of 0.5% in 2009 and 2008, assumed compensation cost increases of 4.5% in 2009 and 2008, and assumed benefits as
defined in the respective plans. Postemployment costs arising from actions that offer employees benefits in excess of those specified in the respective plans are charged to expense when incurred.   

48    

Table of Contents  

Note 19.                                     
                                         
                     Additional Information:      The amounts shown below are for continuing operations.       
    Minimum rental commitments and sublease income under
non-cancelable operating leases, including amounts associated with closed facilities primarily from the integration of UST (see Note 6.  Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs ), in effect at December 31, 2009, were
as follows:       
         Note 20.                                     
                                         
                     Financial Instruments:                  Derivative Financial Instruments:  Derivative financial instruments are used by Altria Group, Inc., principally to reduce exposures to market risks resulting from fluctuations in interest rates and
foreign exchange rates by creating offsetting exposures. Altria Group, Inc. is not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Financial instruments qualifying for hedge
accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. Altria Group, Inc. formally documents the nature and relationships between the
hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Additionally, for hedges of forecasted transactions, the
significant characteristics and expected terms of the forecasted transaction must be specifically identified, and it must be probable that each forecasted transaction will occur. If it were deemed probable that the forecasted transaction will not
occur, the gain or loss

would be recognized in earnings currently. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, ineffectiveness related to fair value hedges and cash flow hedges was not material.
     Derivative gains or losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) are a result of qualifying hedging activity.
Transfers of gains or losses from accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) to earnings are offset by the corresponding gains or losses on the underlying hedged item. Hedging activity affected accumulated other comprehensive earnings
(losses), net of income taxes, during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, as follows:       
    During 2009, subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. had forward
foreign exchange contracts in connection with anticipated oak barrel purchases for Ste. Michelle s wine operations. These contracts, which were not material, expired in 2009 and were designated as effective cash flow hedges. During the second
quarter of 2009, UST s interest rate swap contract, which was designated as an effective cash flow hedge, expired in conjunction with the maturity of UST s $40 million senior notes. At December 31, 2009 Altria Group, Inc. had no
derivative financial instruments remaining.      During the first quarter of 2008, Altria Group, Inc. purchased forward foreign exchange
contracts to mitigate its exposure to changes in exchange rates from its euro-denominated debt. While these forward exchange contracts were effective as economic hedges, they did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, $21 million
of gains for the year ended December 31, 2008 relating to these contracts were reported in interest and other debt expense, net, in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statement of earnings. These contracts and the related debt matured in
the second quarter of 2008.      In addition, Altria Group, Inc. used foreign currency swaps to mitigate its exposure to changes in exchange
rates related to foreign currency denominated debt. These swaps converted fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity, and were accounted for as cash flow hedges.
Subsequent to the PMI distribution, Altria Group, Inc. has had no such swap agreements remaining.      Altria Group, Inc. also designated
certain foreign currency denominated debt and forwards as net investment hedges of foreign operations. During the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, these hedges of net investments resulted in losses, net of income taxes, of $85 million
and $45 million, respectively, and were reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) within currency

49    

Table of Contents  

translation adjustments. The accumulated losses recorded as net investment hedges of foreign operations were recognized and recorded in connection with the PMI spin-off. Subsequent to the PMI
spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. has had no such net investment hedges remaining.                  Credit exposure and credit risk:  Altria Group, Inc. is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by
counterparties. Altria Group, Inc. does not anticipate nonperformance within its consumer products businesses. However, see Note 9.  Finance Assets, net  regarding certain PMCC leases.           Note 21.                                     
                                         
                     Fair Value Measurements:         Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of the FASB authoritative guidance related to fair value measurements of financial assets and liabilities effective
January 1, 2008 and adopted the provisions applicable to fair value of non-financial assets and liabilities effective January 1, 2009. The guidance establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value
measurements. The guidance defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants on the measurement date. The guidance also establishes a fair value hierarchy, which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The
guidance describes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value:       

Level 1  
     
  Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.   

Level 2  
     
  Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or
can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.   

Level 3  
     
  Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.                   Derivative Financial Instruments:  Altria Group, Inc. assesses the fair value of its derivative financial instruments using internally developed models that use, as their basis, readily observable future
amounts, such as cash flows, earnings, and the current market expectations of those future amounts. As discussed in Note 20.  Financial Instruments , at December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. had no derivative financial instruments
remaining.                  Pension Assets:  The fair value of substantially all of Altria Group, Inc. s pension assets are based on readily available quoted market prices, as well as other observable inputs

which would meet the definition of a Level 1 or Level 2 input. For the fair value disclosure of the pension plan assets, see Note 18.  Benefit Plans .             Note 22.                                 
                                         
                         Contingencies:      Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc. and its
subsidiaries, including PM USA and UST and its subsidiaries, as well as their respective indemnitees. Various types of claims are raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband shipments,
patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of distributors.      Litigation is subject to uncertainty and it
is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending or future cases. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related or other litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation. Damages claimed in some
tobacco-related and other litigation are or can be significant and, in certain cases, range in the billions of dollars. The variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims,
demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome.      Although PM USA
has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be
obtainable in all cases. This risk has been substantially reduced given that 43 states now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all.      Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when they determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can
be reasonably estimated. At the present time, while it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur, except as discussed elsewhere in this Note: (i) management has concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been
incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in any of the pending tobacco- related cases; and
(iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for unfavorable outcomes, if any. Legal defense costs are expensed as incurred.      Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have achieved substantial success in managing litigation. Nevertheless, litigation is subject to uncertainty
and significant challenges remain. It is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or
fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. Altria

50    

Table of Contents  

Group, Inc. and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has valid defenses to the litigation pending
against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts. Each of the companies has defended, and will continue to defend, vigorously against litigation challenges. However, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement
discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of Altria Group, Inc. to do so.       Overview of Altria Group, Inc. and/or PM
USA Tobacco-Related Litigation                   Types and Number of Cases:  Claims related to tobacco products generally fall within the following categories: (i) smoking and health cases alleging personal injury brought
on behalf of individual plaintiffs; (ii) smoking and health cases

primarily alleging personal injury or seeking court-supervised programs for ongoing medical monitoring and purporting to be brought on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs, including cases
in which the aggregated claims of a number of individual plaintiffs are to be tried in a single proceeding; (iii) health care cost recovery cases brought by governmental (both domestic and foreign) and non-governmental plaintiffs seeking
reimbursement for health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking and/or disgorgement of profits; (iv) class action suits alleging that the uses of the terms  Lights  and  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive
and unfair trade practices, common law fraud, or violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ( RICO  and (v) other tobacco-related litigation described below. Plaintiffs  theories of recovery and the
defenses raised in pending smoking and health, health care cost recovery and  Lights/Ultra Lights  cases are discussed below.   

The table below lists the number
of certain tobacco-related cases pending in the United States against PM USA and, in some instances, Altria Group, Inc. as of December 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007.       
    (1) Does not include 2,595 cases brought by flight attendants seeking
compensatory damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to environmental tobacco smoke ( ETS ). The flight attendants allege that they are members of an ETS smoking and health class action, which was settled in 1997. The
terms of the court-approved settlement in that case allow class members to file individual lawsuits seeking compensatory damages, but prohibit them from seeking punitive damages. Also, does not include eight individual smoking and health cases
brought against certain retailers that are indemnitees of PM USA. Additionally, does not include approximately 7,713 individual smoking and health cases (3,275 state court cases and 4,438 federal court cases) brought by or on behalf of approximately
9,522 plaintiffs in Florida (5,086 state court plaintiffs and 4,436 federal court plaintiffs) following the decertification of the  Engle  case discussed below. It is possible that some of these cases are duplicates and additional cases have
been filed but not yet recorded on the courts  dockets.      (2) Includes as one case the 712 civil actions (of which 405 are actions against PM USA)
that are proposed to be tried in a single proceeding in West Virginia. Middleton and USSTC were named as defendants in this action but they, along with other non-cigarette manufacturers, have been severed from this case. The West Virginia Supreme
Court of Appeals has ruled that the United States Constitution does not preclude a trial in two phases in this case. Issues related to defendants  conduct, plaintiffs  entitlement to punitive damages and a punitive damages multiplier, if
any, would be determined in the first phase. The second phase would consist of individual trials to determine liability, if any, and compensatory damages. In November 2007, the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals denied defendants  renewed
motion for review of the trial plan. In December 2007, defendants filed a petition for  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court, which was denied in February 2008. The first phase of the trial is scheduled for
February 1, 2010.       
 
               International Tobacco-Related Cases:  As of December 31, 2009, PM USA is a named defendant in Israel in a  Lights  class action, a health care cost recovery
action, and an individual smoking and health action. PM USA is a named defendant in three health care cost recovery actions in Canada, two of which also name Altria Group, Inc. as a defendant. PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. are also named defendants
in four smoking and health class actions filed in various Canadian provinces.                  Pending and Upcoming Trials:  As of December 31, 2009, 54  Engle  progeny cases against PM USA are set for
trial in 2010. Cases against other tobacco companies are also scheduled for trial in 2010. Trial dates are subject to change.                  Trial Results:  Since January 1999, verdicts have been returned in 52
smoking and health,  Lights/Ultra Lights  and health care cost recovery cases in which PM USA was a defendant. Verdicts in favor of PM USA and other defendants were returned in 31 of the 52 cases. These 31 cases were

tried in California (5), Florida (11), Mississippi (1), Missouri (2), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (1), New York (3), Ohio      (2), Pennsylvania (1), Rhode Island (1), Tennessee (2), and West Virginia (1). A motion for a new trial was granted in one of the cases in Florida.      Of the 21 cases in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs, ten have reached final resolution and one case ( Williams    see
below) has reached partial resolution. A verdict against defendants in one health care cost recovery case has been reversed and all claims were dismissed with prejudice. In addition, a verdict against defendants in a purported  Lights 
class action in Illinois ( Price ) was reversed and the case was dismissed with prejudice in December 2006. In December 2008, the plaintiff in  Price  filed a motion with the state trial court to vacate the judgment dismissing this case in
light of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good  (see below for a discussion of developments in  Good  and  Price ). After exhausting all appeals, PM USA has paid judgments in these cases totaling $106.1 million and
interest totaling $63.8 million.   

51    

Table of Contents  

   The chart below lists the verdicts and post-trial developments in the cases that were pending during
2009 that have gone to trial since January 1999 in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs.       

Date   
     
     Location of       Court/ Name       of Plaintiff    
     
   Type of Case   
     
   Verdict   
     
   Post-Trial Developments    
 
    November 2009   
     
  Florida/ Naugle   
     
   Engle  progeny  
     
  On November 19, 2009, a Broward County jury in the  Naugle  trial returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and against PM USA. The jury awarded approximately $56.6 million in
compensatory damages and $244 million in punitive damages. The jury allocated 90% of the fault to PM USA.  
     
  On November 23 and November 30, 2009, PM USA filed motions for a new trial and to set aside the verdicts as well as a motion for remittitur of the compensatory damages and punitive damages
awards. On December 18, 2009, the trial court denied all post-trial motions except for the motion for remittitur, which the court has not addressed.   

August 2009   
     
  Florida /Campbell   
     
   Engle  progeny  
     
  In August 2009, the jury in the  Campbell  trial (conducted in Escambia County) returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and against R.J. Reynolds, PM USA and Liggett Group. The jury
awarded $7.8 million in compensatory damages. There was no punitive damages award. In September 2009, the trial court entered final judgment and awarded the plaintiff $156,000 in damages against PM USA due to the jury allocating only 2% of the fault
to PM USA.  
     
  In August 2009, defendants filed a joint motion to set aside the verdict, to enter judgment in accordance with defendants  motion for directed verdict, or, in the alternative, to order a
new trial or for remittitur of the jury s actual damages award. On December 23, 2009, the trial court denied this post-verdict motion. On January 8, 2010, defendants filed their notice of appeal, and on January 12, 2010, PM USA posted a
$156,000 appeal bond.   

August 2009   
     
  Florida /Barbanell   
     
   Engle  progeny  
     
  In August 2009, a Broward County jury in the  Barbanell  trial returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff, awarding $5.3 million in compensatory damages. The judge had previously
dismissed the punitive damages claim. In September 2009, the trial court entered final judgment and awarded plaintiff $1.95 million in actual damages. The judgment reduced the jury s $5.3 million award of compensatory damages due to the jury
allocating 36.5% of the fault to PM USA.  
     
  A notice of appeal was filed in September 2009, and PM USA posted a $1.95 million appeal bond.   

February 2009   
     
  Florida/ Hess   
     
   Engle  progeny  
     
  In February 2009, a Broward County jury in the  Hess  trial found in favor of plaintiffs and against PM USA. The jury awarded $3 million in compensatory damages and $5 million in
punitive damages. In June 2009, the trial court entered final judgment and awarded plaintiffs $1,260,000 in actual damages and $5 million in punitive damages. The judgment reduced the jury s $3 million award of compensatory damages due to the
jury allocating 42% of the fault to PM USA.   
     
  PM USA noticed an appeal to the Fourth District Court of Appeal in July 2009 and posted a $7.3 million appeal bond.   

52    

Table of Contents  

Date   
     
     Location of       Court/ Name       of Plaintiff    
     
   Type of Case   
     
   Verdict   
     
   Post-Trial Developments    

May 2007   
     
      California   /           Whiteley      
     
  Individual Smoking and Health  
     
  Approximately $2.5 million in compensatory damages against PM USA and the other defendant in the case, as well as $250,000 in punitive damages against the other defendant in the
case.  
     
  In October 2007, in a limited retrial on the issue of punitive damages, the jury found that plaintiffs are not entitled to punitive damages against PM USA. In November 2007, the trial court
entered final judgment and PM USA filed a motion for a new trial and for judgment notwithstanding the verdict. The trial court rejected these motions in January 2008. In March 2008, PM USA noticed an appeal to the California Court of Appeal, First
Appellate District and, in May 2008, posted a $2.2 million appeal bond. The court affirmed the judgment in October 2009. On November 23, 2009, PM USA and the other defendant in the case filed a petition for review with the California Supreme Court.
On January 13, 2010, the California Supreme Court denied defendants  petition for review. PM USA will record a provision for compensatory damages of $1.26 million plus cost and interest in the first quarter of 2010, and will pay its share of
the judgment, concluding this litigation.   

August 2006   
     
    District of       Columbia/ United       States of       America    
     
  Health Care Cost Recovery  
     
  Finding that defendants, including Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA, violated the civil provisions of RICO. No monetary damages were assessed, but the court made specific findings and issued
injunctions. See  Federal Government s Lawsuit  below.  
     
  See  Federal Government s Lawsuit  below.   

March 2005   
     
    New York/      Rose  (now known as
 Adamo )   
     
  Individual Smoking and Health  
     
  $3.42 million in compensatory damages against two defendants, including PM USA, and $17.1 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
     
  In April 2008, an intermediate New York appellate court reversed the verdict and vacated the compensatory and punitive damages awards against PM USA. In December 2008, the New York Court of
Appeals affirmed the appellate court decision. In January 2009, plaintiffs filed a petition with the New York Court of Appeals requesting that the court either vacate its earlier decision and reinstate the jury verdict or remand the case to the
trial court for a new trial. The New York Court of Appeals denied plaintiffs  motion in March 2009. Plaintiffs filed a petition for a  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court, which was denied in October 2009, concluding
this litigation.    

May 2004   
     
    Louisiana/   Scott     
     
  Smoking and Health Class Action  
     
  Approximately $590 million against all defendants, including PM USA, jointly and severally, to fund a 10-year smoking cessation program.  
     
  See  Scott Class Action  below.   

53    

Table of Contents  

Date   
     
     Location of       Court/ Name       of Plaintiff    
     
   Type of Case   
     
   Verdict   
     
   Post-Trial Developments    

October 2002   
     
  California/ Bullock   
     
  Individual Smoking and Health  
     
  $850,000 in compensatory damages and $28 billion in punitive damages against PM USA.  
     
  In December 2002, the trial court reduced the punitive damages award to $28 million. In April 2006, the California Court of Appeal affirmed the $28 million punitive damages award. In January
2008, the California Court of Appeal reversed the judgment with respect to the $28 million punitive damages award, affirmed the judgment in all other respects, and remanded the case to the trial court to conduct a new trial on the amount of punitive
damages. In April 2008, the California Supreme Court denied PM USA s petition for review. In August 2009, the jury returned a verdict awarding plaintiff $13.8 million in punitive damages. See discussion (1) below.   

June 2002   
     
    Florida/      Lukacs    
     
   Engle  progeny  
     
  $37.5 million in compensatory damages against all defendants, including PM USA.  
     
  In March 2003, the trial court reduced the damages award to $24.8 million. PM USA s share of the damages award is approximately $6 million. In January 2007, defendants petitioned the
trial court to set aside the jury s verdict and dismiss plaintiffs  punitive damages claim. In August 2008, the trial court granted plaintiffs  motion for entry of judgment and ordered compensatory damages of $24.8 million plus
interest from the date of the verdict. In August 2008, PM USA filed a motion for reconsideration, which was denied. Final judgment was entered in November 2008, awarding plaintiffs actual damages of $24.8 million, plus interest from the date of the
verdict. Defendants filed a notice of appeal in December 2008 and collectively posted an appeal bond of $30.3 million. Argument is scheduled to be held in March 2010.   

March 2002   
     
      Oregon/             Schwarz      
     
  Individual Smoking and Health  
     
  $168,500 in compensatory damages and $150 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
     
  In May 2002, the trial court reduced the punitive damages award to $100 million. In May 2006, the Oregon Court of Appeals affirmed the compensatory damages verdict, reversed the award of
punitive damages and remanded the case to the trial court for a second trial to determine the amount of punitive damages, if any. In June 2006, plaintiff petitioned the Oregon Supreme Court to review the portion of the Court of Appeals 
decision reversing and remanding the case for a new trial on punitive damages. The Oregon Supreme Court held this petition in abeyance until the United States Supreme Court decided the  Williams  case described in (2) below. In May 2009, the
Oregon Supreme Court issued an order granting plaintiff s petition for review. Argument was heard on November 2, 2009.   

54    

Table of Contents  

Date   
     
     Location of       Court/ Name       of Plaintiff    
     
   Type of Case   
     
   Verdict   
     
   Post-Trial Developments    

July 2000   
     
    Florida/   Engle     
     
  Smoking and Health Class Action  
     
  $145 billion in punitive damages against all defendants, including $74 billion against PM USA.  
     
  See  Engle Class Action  below.   

March 1999   
     
    Oregon/   Williams     
     
  Individual Smoking and Health  
     
  $800,000 in compensatory damages (capped statutorily at $500,000), $21,500 in medical expenses and $79.5 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
     
  See discussion (2) below.   

(1)  Bullock:  In August 2006, the California Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  petition to overturn the trial court s reduction of the
punitive damages award and granted PM USA s petition for review challenging the punitive damages award. The court granted review of the case on a  grant and hold  basis under which further action by the court was deferred pending the
United States Supreme Court s 2007 decision on punitive damages in the  Williams  case described below. In February 2007, the United States Supreme Court vacated the punitive damages judgment in  Williams  and remanded the case to the
Oregon Supreme Court for proceedings consistent with its decision. In May 2007, the California Supreme Court transferred the case to the Second District of the California Court of Appeal with directions that the court vacate its 2006 decision and
reconsider the case in light of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Williams.  In January 2008, the California Court of Appeal reversed the judgment with respect to the $28 million punitive damages award, affirmed the judgment
in all other respects, and remanded the case to the trial court to conduct a new trial on the amount of punitive damages. In March 2008, plaintiffs and PM USA appealed to the California Supreme Court. In April 2008, the California Supreme Court
denied both petitions for review. In July 2008, $43.3 million of escrow funds were returned to PM USA. The case was remanded to the superior court for a new trial on the amount of punitive damages, if any. In August 2009, the jury returned a
verdict, and on December 1, 2009, the superior court entered a judgment, awarding plaintiff $13.8 million in punitive damages, plus costs. On December 17, 2009, PM USA filed a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict that seeks a
reduction of the punitive damages award. On December 28, 2009, plaintiffs filed a motion for a new trial. PM USA has recorded a provision of approximately $1.6 million for compensatory damages, costs and interest.      (2)  Williams:  The trial court reduced the punitive damages award to $32 million, and PM USA and plaintiff appealed. In June 2002, the Oregon Court of Appeals
reinstated the $79.5 million punitive damages award. Following the Oregon Supreme Court s refusal to hear PM USA s appeal, PM USA recorded a provision of $32 million and petitioned the United States Supreme Court for further review (PM USA
later recorded additional provisions of approximately $29 million related primarily to accrued interest). In October 2003, the United States Supreme Court set aside the Oregon appellate court s ruling and directed the Oregon court to reconsider
the case in light of the 2003  State Farm  decision by the United States Supreme Court, which limited punitive damages. In June 2004, the Oregon Court of Appeals reinstated the $79.5 million punitive damages award. In February 2006, the
Oregon Supreme Court affirmed the Court of Appeals  decision. The United States Supreme Court granted PM USA s petition for  writ of certiorari  in May 2006. In February 2007, the United States Supreme Court vacated the $79.5 million
punitive damages award, holding that the United States Constitution prohibits basing punitive damages awards on harm to non-parties. The Court also found that states must assure that appropriate procedures are in place so that juries
are provided with proper legal guidance as to the constitutional limitations on awards of punitive damages. Accordingly, the Court remanded the case to the Oregon Supreme Court for further proceedings consistent with this decision. In
January 2008, the Oregon Supreme Court affirmed the Oregon Court of Appeals  June 2004 decision, which in turn, upheld the jury s compensatory damages award and reinstated the jury s award of $79.5 million in punitive damages. In
March 2008, PM USA filed a petition for  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court, which was granted in June 2008. In March 2009, the United States Supreme Court dismissed the  writ of certiorari  as being improvidently
granted. Subsequent to the United States Supreme Court s dismissal, PM USA paid $61.1 million to the plaintiffs, representing the compensatory damages award, forty percent of the punitive damages award and accrued interest. Oregon state law
requires that sixty percent of any punitive damages award be paid to the state. However, PM USA believes that, as a result of the Master Settlement Agreement ( MSA ), it is not liable for the sixty percent that would be paid to the state.
Oregon and PM USA are parties to a proceeding in Oregon state court that seeks a determination of PM USA s liability for that sixty percent. If PM USA prevails, its obligation to pay punitive damages will be limited to the forty percent
previously paid to the plaintiff. The court has consolidated that MSA proceeding with  Williams , where plaintiff seeks to challenge the constitutionality of the Oregon statute apportioning the punitive damages award and claims that any
punitive damages award released by the state reverts to plaintiff.       
 
               Security for Judgments:  To obtain stays of judgments pending current appeals, as of December 31, 2009, PM USA has posted various forms of security totaling approximately
$97 million, the majority of which has been collateralized with cash deposits that are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.                  Engle Class Action:  In July 2000, in the second phase
of the  Engle  smoking and health class action in Florida, a jury returned a verdict assessing punitive damages totaling approximately $145 billion against various defendants, including $74 billion against PM USA. Following entry of judgment,
PM USA posted a bond in the amount of $100 million and appealed.      In May 2001, the trial court approved a stipulation providing that
execution of the punitive damages component of the  Engle  judgment will remain stayed against PM USA and the other participating defendants through the completion of all judicial review. As a result of the stipulation, PM USA placed $500
million into a separate interest-bearing escrow account that, regardless of the outcome of the judicial review, will be paid to the court and the court will determine how to allocate or distribute it consistent with Florida Rules of Civil Procedure.
In July 2001, PM USA also placed $1.2 billion into an interest-bearing escrow account, which was returned to PM USA in December 2007. In addition, the $100 million

bond related to the case has been discharged. In connection with the stipulation, PM USA recorded a $500 million pre-tax charge in its consolidated statement of earnings for the quarter ended
March 31, 2001. In May 2003, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal reversed the judgment entered by the trial court and instructed the trial court to order the decertification of the class. Plaintiffs petitioned the Florida Supreme Court
for further review.      In July 2006, the Florida Supreme Court ordered that the punitive damages award be vacated, that the class
approved by the trial court be decertified, and that members of the decertified class could file individual actions against defendants within one year of issuance of the mandate. The court further declared the following Phase I findings are entitled
to  res judicata  effect in such individual actions brought within one year of the issuance of the mandate: (i) that smoking causes various diseases; (ii) that nicotine in cigarettes is addictive; (iii) that defendants 
cigarettes were defective and unreasonably dangerous; (iv) that defendants concealed or omitted material information not otherwise known or available knowing that the material was false or misleading or failed to disclose a material fact
concerning the health effects or addictive nature of smoking; (v) that defendants agreed to misrepresent information regarding the health effects or addictive nature of cigarettes with the intention of causing the public to rely on this
information to their detriment; (vi) that defendants

55    

Table of Contents  

agreed to conceal or omit information regarding the health effects of cigarettes or their addictive nature with the intention that smokers would rely on the information to their detriment;
(vii) that all defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that were defective; and (viii) that defendants were negligent. The court also reinstated compensatory damages awards totaling approximately $6.9 million to two individual plaintiffs
and found that a third plaintiff s claim was barred by the statute of limitations. In February 2008, PM USA paid a total of $2,964,685, which represents its share of compensatory damages and interest to the two individual plaintiffs
identified in the Florida Supreme Court s order.      In August 2006, PM USA sought rehearing from the Florida Supreme Court on parts of
its July 2006 opinion, including the ruling (described above) that certain jury findings have  res judicata  effect in subsequent individual trials timely brought by  Engle  class members. The rehearing motion also asked, among other
things, that legal errors that were raised but not expressly ruled upon in the Third District Court of Appeal or in the Florida Supreme Court now be addressed. Plaintiffs also filed a motion for rehearing in August 2006 seeking clarification of the
applicability of the statute of limitations to non-members of the decertified class. In December 2006, the Florida Supreme Court refused to revise its July 2006 ruling, except that it revised the set of Phase I findings entitled to  res
judicata  effect by excluding finding (v) listed above (relating to agreement to misrepresent information), and added the finding that defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that, at the time of sale or supply, did not conform to the
representations of fact made by defendants. In January 2007, the Florida Supreme Court issued the mandate from its revised opinion. Defendants then filed a motion with the Florida Third District Court of Appeal requesting that the court address
legal errors that were previously raised by defendants but have not yet been addressed either by the Third District Court of Appeal or by the Florida Supreme Court. In February 2007, the Third District Court of Appeal denied defendants  motion.
In May 2007, defendants  motion for a partial stay of the mandate pending the completion of appellate review was denied by the Third District Court of Appeal. In May 2007, defendants filed a petition for  writ of certiorari  with the
United States Supreme Court. In October 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petition. In November 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petition for rehearing from the denial of their petition for 
writ of certiorari .      The deadline for filing  Engle  progeny cases, as required by the Florida Supreme Court s decision,
expired in January 2008. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 7,713 cases (3,275 state court cases and 4,438 federal court cases) were pending against PM USA or Altria Group, Inc. asserting individual claims by or on behalf of approximately
9,522 plaintiffs (5,086 state court plaintiffs and 4,436 federal court plaintiffs). It is possible that some of these cases are duplicates.   Some of these cases have been removed from various Florida state courts to the federal district courts
in Florida, while others were filed in federal court. In July 2007, PM USA and other defendants requested that the multi-district litigation panel order the transfer of all such cases pending in

the federal courts, as well as any other  Engle  progeny cases that may be filed, to the Middle District of Florida for pretrial coordination. The panel denied this request in December 2007.
In October 2007, attorneys for plaintiffs filed a motion to consolidate all pending and future cases filed in the state trial court in Hillsborough County. The court denied this motion in November 2007. In February 2008, the trial court decertified
the class except for purposes of the May 2001 bond stipulation, and formally vacated the punitive damages award pursuant to the Florida Supreme Court s mandate. In April 2008, the trial court ruled that certain defendants, including PM USA,
lacked standing with respect to allocation of the funds escrowed under the May 2001 bond stipulation and will receive no credit at this time from the $500 million paid by PM USA against any future punitive damages awards in cases brought by
former  Engle  class members.      In May 2008, the trial court, among other things, decertified the limited class maintained for
purposes of the May 2001 bond stipulation and, in July 2008, severed the remaining plaintiffs  claims except for those of Howard Engle. The only remaining plaintiff in the  Engle  case, Howard Engle, voluntarily dismissed his claims with
prejudice. In July 2008, attorneys for a putative former  Engle  class member petitioned the Florida Supreme Court to permit members of the  Engle  class additional time to file individual lawsuits. The Florida Supreme Court denied this
petition in January 2009.      Three federal district courts (in the  Merlob, Brown  and  Burr  cases) have ruled that the findings
in the first phase of the  Engle  proceedings cannot be used to satisfy elements of plaintiffs  claims, and two of those rulings ( Brown  and  Burr ) have been certified by the trial court for interlocutory review. The
certification in both cases has been granted by the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit and the appeals have been consolidated. Argument was held on January 26, 2010. In February 2009, the appeal in  Burr  was
dismissed for lack of prosecution.  Engle  progeny cases pending in the federal district courts in the Middle District of Florida asserting individual claims by or on behalf of approximately 4,436 plaintiffs have been stayed pending
interlocutory review by the Eleventh Circuit. State trial court judges have issued contrary rulings that allowed plaintiffs to use the  Engle  findings to establish elements of their claims and required certain defenses to be stricken.
     In June 2009, Florida amended its existing bond cap statute by adding a $200 million bond cap that applies to all  Engle  progeny
lawsuits in the aggregate and establishes individual bond caps for individual  Engle  progeny cases in amounts that vary depending on the number of judgments in effect at a given time. The legislation, which became effective in June 2009,
applies to judgments entered after the effective date and remains in effect until December 31, 2012.      As of December 31, 2009,
six  Engle  progeny cases involving PM USA have resulted in verdicts since the Florida Supreme Court  Engle  decision. Four verdicts (see  Hess, Barbanell, Campbell  and  Naugle  descriptions in the table above) were returned in
favor of plaintiffs and two verdicts were returned in favor of PM USA ( Gelep  and  Kalyvas ). The plaintiff in  Gelep  initially appealed the defense verdict, but in September 2009 voluntarily dismissed her appeal.  Engle 

56    

Table of Contents  

progeny trial results are included in the totals provided in  Trial Results  above .       On January 12, 2010, the plaintiff in the  J. Cohen  case voluntarily dismissed the case with prejudice during trial after accepting PM USA s offer of judgment in the amount of $1,000.                  Scott Class Action:  In July 2003, following the first phase of the trial in the  Scott  class action, in which plaintiffs sought creation of a fund to pay for medical monitoring and smoking
cessation programs, a Louisiana jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants, including PM USA, in connection with plaintiffs  medical monitoring claims, but also found that plaintiffs could benefit from smoking cessation assistance. The jury
also found that cigarettes as designed are not defective but that the defendants failed to disclose all they knew about smoking and diseases and marketed their products to minors. In May 2004, in the second phase of the trial, the jury awarded
plaintiffs approximately $590 million against all defendants jointly and severally, to fund a 10-year smoking cessation program.      In June
2004, the court entered judgment, which awarded plaintiffs the approximately $590 million jury award plus prejudgment interest accruing from the date the suit commenced. PM USA s share of the jury award and prejudgment interest has not been
allocated. Defendants, including PM USA, appealed. Pursuant to a stipulation of the parties, the trial court entered an order setting the amount of the bond at $50 million for all defendants in accordance with an article of the Louisiana Code of
Civil Procedure, and a Louisiana statute (the  bond cap law ), fixing the amount of security in civil cases involving a signatory to the MSA. Under the terms of the stipulation, plaintiffs reserve the right to contest, at a later date, the
sufficiency or amount of the bond on any grounds including the applicability or constitutionality of the bond cap law. In September 2004, defendants collectively posted a bond in the amount of $50 million.      In February 2007, the Louisiana Court of Appeal issued a ruling on defendants  appeal that, among other things: affirmed class certification but
limited the scope of the class; struck certain of the categories of damages included in the judgment, reducing the amount of the award by approximately $312 million; vacated the award of prejudgment interest, which totaled approximately $444 million
as of February 15, 2007; and ruled that the only class members who are eligible to participate in the smoking cessation program are those who began smoking before, and whose claims accrued by, September 1, 1988. As a result, the Louisiana
Court of Appeal remanded the case for proceedings consistent with its opinion, including further reduction of the amount of the award based on the size of the new class. In March 2007, the Louisiana Court of Appeal rejected defendants  motion
for rehearing and clarification. In January 2008, the Louisiana Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  and defendants  petitions for  writ of certiorari . Following the Louisiana Supreme Court s denial of defendants  petition
for  writ of certiorari , PM USA recorded a provision of $26 million in connection with the case and has recorded additional provisions of approximately $4.9 million related to accrued interest. In

March 2008, plaintiffs filed a motion to execute the approximately $279 million judgment plus post-judgment interest or, in the alternative, for an order to the parties to submit revised damages
figures. Defendants filed a motion to have judgment entered in favor of defendants based on accrual of all class member claims after September 1, 1988 or, in the alternative, for the entry of a case management order. In April 2008, the
Louisiana Supreme Court denied defendants  motion to stay proceedings and the defendants filed a petition for  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court. In June 2008, the United States Supreme Court denied the
defendant s petition. Plaintiffs filed a motion to enter judgment in the amount of approximately $280 million (subsequently changed to approximately $264 million) and defendants filed a motion to enter judgment in their favor dismissing the
case entirely or, alternatively, to enter a case management order for a new trial. In July 2008, the trial court entered an Amended Judgment and Reasons for Judgment denying both motions, but ordering defendants to deposit into the registry of the
court the sum of $263,532,762 plus post-judgment interest (which is approximately $106 million as of December 31, 2009) while stating, however, that the judgment award  may be satisfied with something less than a full cash payment
now  and that the court would  favorably consider  returning unused funds annually to defendants if monies allocated for that year were not fully expended.      In September 2008, defendants filed an application for  writ of mandamus  or  supervisory writ  to secure the right to appeal with the Louisiana Circuit Court of Appeals. The appellate court, in November
2008, granted the defendants  w rit  and directed the trial court to enter an order permitting the appeal and to set the appeal bond in accordance with Louisiana law. In December 2008, plaintiffs   supervisory writ  petition to
the Louisiana Supreme Court was denied and the trial court entered an order permitting the appeal and approving a $50 million bond for all defendants in accordance with the Louisiana bond cap law discussed above. In April 2009, plaintiffs filed a
cross-appeal seeking to reinstate the June 2004 judgment and to award the medical monitoring rejected by the jury. Argument before the Louisiana Court of Appeal, Fourth Circuit, was held in September 2009.       Smoking and Health Litigation                   Overview:  Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in smoking and
health cases are based on various theories of recovery, including negligence, gross negligence, strict liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, nuisance, breach of express and implied warranties, breach of special duty,
conspiracy, concert of action, violations of deceptive trade practice laws and consumer protection statutes, and claims under the federal and state anti-racketeering statutes. Plaintiffs in the smoking and health actions seek various forms of
relief, including compensatory and punitive damages, treble/multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, creation of medical monitoring and smoking cessation funds, disgorgement of profits, and injunctive and equitable relief.
Defenses raised in these cases include lack of

57    

Table of Contents  

proximate cause, assumption of the risk, comparative fault and/or contributory negligence, statutes of limitations and preemption by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act.
     In July 2008, the New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Department in  Fabiano , an individual personal injury
case, held that plaintiffs  punitive damages claim was barred by the MSA (as defined below) based on principles of  res judicata  because the New York Attorney General had already litigated the punitive damages claim on behalf of
all New York residents. In August 2008, plaintiffs filed a motion for permission to appeal to the Court of Appeals. The motion was denied in November 2008.                  Smoking and Health Class Actions:  Since the dismissal
in May 1996 of a purported nationwide class action brought on behalf of allegedly addicted smokers, plaintiffs have filed numerous putative smoking and health class action suits in various state and federal courts. In general, these cases purport to
be brought on behalf of residents of a particular state or states (although a few cases purport to be nationwide in scope) and raise addiction claims and, in many cases, claims of physical injury as well.      Class certification has been denied or reversed by courts in 57 smoking and health class actions involving PM USA in Arkansas (1), the District of
Columbia (2), Florida (2), Illinois (2), Iowa (1), Kansas (1), Louisiana (1), Maryland (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (1), Nevada (29), New Jersey (6), New York (2), Ohio (1), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (1), Puerto Rico (1), South Carolina (1), Texas
(1) and Wisconsin (1). A class remains certified in the  Scott  class action discussed above.      Two purported class actions
pending against PM USA have been brought in New York ( Caronia,  filed in January 2006 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York) and Massachusetts ( Donovan , filed in December 2006 in the United States
District Court for the District of Massachusetts) on behalf of each state s respective residents who: are age 50 or older; have smoked the  Marlboro  brand for 20 pack-years or more; and have neither been diagnosed with lung cancer nor are
under investigation by a physician for suspected lung cancer. Plaintiffs in these cases seek to impose liability under various product-based causes of action and the creation of a court-supervised program providing members of the purported class Low
Dose CT Scanning in order to identify and diagnose lung cancer. Neither claim seeks punitive damages. Plaintiffs  motion for class certification and defendant s motion for summary judgment are pending in  Caronia.  Defendants 
motions for summary judgment and judgment on the pleadings and plaintiffs  motion for class certification are pending in  Donovan . In  Donovan , the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts heard arguments in June 2009 on the
questions certified to it by the district court regarding medical monitoring and statute of limitations issues. In October 2009, the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in answering the questions certified to it, held that under certain
circumstances state law recognizes a claim by individual smokers for medical monitoring despite the absence of an actual injury. The court also ruled that whether

or not the case is barred by the applicable statute of limitations is a factual issue to be determined by the trial court. The case has been remanded to federal court for further proceedings.
     In November 2008, a purported class action naming PM USA, Altria Group, Inc. and the other major cigarette manufacturers as
defendants was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia on behalf of a purported class of cigarette smokers who seek medical monitoring ( Peoples ). Plaintiffs alleged that the tobacco companies conspired
to convince the National Cancer Institute ( NCI ) to not recommend spiral CT scans to screen for lung cancer and plaintiffs assert claims based on defendants  purported violations of RICO. The complaint identified the purported class
as all residents of the State of Georgia who, by virtue of their age and history of smoking cigarettes, are at increased risk for developing lung cancer; are 50 years of age or older; have cigarette smoking histories of 20 pack-years or more; and
are covered by an insurance company, Medicare, Medicaid or a third party medical payor. Plaintiffs sought relief in the form of the creation of a fund for medical monitoring and punitive damages. In September 2009, the district judge entered
judgment against plaintiffs and dismissed the case, concluding that plaintiffs failed to allege sufficient facts to state a claim for relief under RICO. The time for plaintiffs to file an appeal in  Peoples  has expired and the case has
concluded. A similar purported class action ( Jackson ) was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia in May 2009. Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA are named as defendants. Motions to dismiss are pending.
     In July 2009, PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. were named as defendants, along with other cigarette manufacturers, in four actions filed in
various Canadian provinces. In the Province of Saskatchewan, plaintiffs seek class certification on behalf of individuals who suffer or have suffered from various diseases including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, emphysema, heart disease or
cancer. In each of the other actions, plaintiffs seek certification of a class of all individuals who smoked defendants  cigarettes. See   Guarantees   for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and
PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products.       Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation                   Overview:  In health care cost recovery litigation, governmental entities and non-governmental plaintiffs seek reimbursement of health care cost expenditures allegedly caused by tobacco products and, in
some cases, of future expenditures and damages as well. Relief sought by some but not all plaintiffs includes punitive damages, multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, injunctions prohibiting alleged marketing and sales to
minors, disclosure of research, disgorgement of profits, funding of anti-smoking programs, additional disclosure of nicotine yields, and payment of attorney and expert witness fees.      The claims asserted include the claim that cigarette manufacturers were  unjustly enriched  by plaintiffs  payment of health care costs
allegedly attributable to smoking, as well

58    

Table of Contents  

as claims of indemnity, negligence, strict liability, breach of express and implied warranty, violation of a voluntary undertaking or special duty, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, conspiracy,
public nuisance, claims under federal and state statutes governing consumer fraud, antitrust, deceptive trade practices and false advertising, and claims under federal and state anti-racketeering statutes.      Defenses raised include lack of proximate cause, remoteness of injury, failure to state a valid claim, lack of benefit, adequate remedy at law,
 unclean hands  (namely, that plaintiffs cannot obtain equitable relief because they participated in, and benefited from, the sale of cigarettes), lack of antitrust standing and injury, federal preemption, lack of statutory authority to
bring suit, and statutes of limitations. In addition, defendants argue that they should be entitled to  set off  any alleged damages to the extent the plaintiffs benefit economically from the sale of cigarettes through the receipt of
excise taxes or otherwise. Defendants also argue that these cases are improper because plaintiffs must proceed under principles of subrogation and assignment. Under traditional theories of recovery, a payor of medical costs (such as an insurer) can
seek recovery of health care costs from a third party solely by  standing in the shoes  of the injured party. Defendants argue that plaintiffs should be required to bring any actions as subrogees of individual health care recipients and
should be subject to all defenses available against the injured party.      Although there have been some decisions to the contrary, most
judicial decisions have dismissed all or most health care cost recovery claims against cigarette manufacturers. Nine federal circuit courts of appeals and six state appellate courts, relying primarily on grounds that plaintiffs  claims were too
remote, have ordered or affirmed dismissals of health care cost recovery actions. The United States Supreme Court has refused to consider plaintiffs  appeals from the cases decided by five circuit courts of appeals.      In March 1999, in the first health care cost recovery case to go to trial, an Ohio jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants on all counts. In
addition, a $17.8 million verdict against defendants (including $6.8 million against PM USA) was reversed in a health care cost recovery case in New York, and all claims were dismissed with prejudice in February 2005 ( Blue Cross/Blue Shield ).
In June 2009, the trial court denied two of defendants  motions for summary judgment in a health care cost recovery case brought by the City of St. Louis, Missouri and approximately 40 Missouri hospitals, in which PM USA, USSTC and Altria
Group, Inc. are defendants. Defendants  other summary judgment motions, as well as plantiffs  motion for summary judgment claiming collateral estoppel from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see  Federal
Government s Lawsuit  described below), are still pending. Trial is currently scheduled to begin no earlier than January 2011.      Individuals and associations have also sued in purported class actions or as private attorneys general under the Medicare as Secondary Payer ( MSP ) provisions of the Social Security Act to recover from defendants Medicare
expenditures allegedly incurred for the treatment of smoking-related diseases. Cases brought in New York ( Mason ), Florida

( Glover ) and Massachusetts ( United Seniors Association ) have been dismissed by federal courts. In April 2008, an action,  National Committee to Preserve Social Security and
Medicare, et al. v. Philip Morris USA, et al . (  National Committee I  ), was brought under the MSP statute in the Circuit Court of the Eleventh Judicial Circuit of and for Miami County, Florida, but was dismissed voluntarily
in May 2008. The action purported to be brought on behalf of Medicare to recover an unspecified amount of damages equal to double the amount paid by Medicare for smoking-related health care services provided from April 19, 2002 to the present.
     In May 2008, an action,  National Committee to Preserve Social Security, et al. v. Philip Morris USA, et al. , was brought under
the MSP statute in United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. This action was brought by the same plaintiffs as  National Committee I  and similarly purports to be brought on behalf of Medicare to recover an unspecified
amount of damages equal to double the amount paid by Medicare for smoking-related health care services provided from May 21, 2002 to the present. In July 2008, defendants filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs  claims and plaintiffs filed a
motion for partial summary judgment. In March 2009, the court granted defendants  motion to dismiss. Plaintiffs noticed an appeal in May 2009 after the district court denied their motion for reconsideration.      In addition to the cases brought in the United States, health care cost recovery actions have also been brought against tobacco industry participants,
including PM USA, in Israel (1), the Marshall Islands (1 dismissed), and Canada (3) and other entities have stated that they are considering filing such actions. In September 2005, in the first of the three health care recovery cases filed in
Canada, the Canadian Supreme Court ruled that legislation passed in British Columbia permitting the lawsuit is constitutional, and, as a result, the case, which had previously been dismissed by the trial court, was permitted to proceed. PM
USA s and other defendants  challenge to the British Columbia court s exercise of jurisdiction was rejected by the Court of Appeals of British Columbia and, in April 2007, the Supreme Court of Canada denied review of that decision.
During 2008, the Province of New Brunswick, Canada, proclaimed into law previously adopted legislation allowing reimbursement claims to be brought against cigarette manufacturers, and it filed suit shortly thereafter. In September 2009, the Province
of Ontario, Canada, filed suit against a number of cigarette manufacturers based on previously adopted legislation nearly identical in substance to the New Brunswick health care cost recovery legislation. PM USA is named as a defendant in the
British Columbia case, while Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA are named as defendants in the New Brunswick and Ontario cases. Several other provinces in Canada have enacted similar legislation or are in the process of enacting similar legislation. See
  Guarantees   for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products.                  Settlements of Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation:  In November 1998, PM USA and certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers entered into the MSA with 46

59    

Table of Contents  

states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa and the Northern Marianas to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and
other claims. PM USA and certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (together with the MSA, the  State Settlement Agreements ). The
State Settlement Agreements require that the original participating manufacturers make substantial annual payments of approximately $9.4 billion each year (excluding future annual payments, if any, under the National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust
discussed below), subject to adjustments for several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume. In addition, the original participating manufacturers are required to pay settling plaintiffs  attorneys  fees, subject to
an annual cap of $500 million. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the aggregate amount recorded in cost of sales with respect to the State Settlement Agreements and the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004
( FETRA ) was approximately $5.0 billion and $5.5 billion, respectively.      The State Settlement Agreements also include
provisions relating to advertising and marketing restrictions, public disclosure of certain industry documents, limitations on challenges to certain tobacco control and underage use laws, restrictions on lobbying activities and other provisions.
           
      Possible Adjustments in MSA Payments for 2003 to 2008:  Pursuant to the provisions of the MSA, domestic tobacco product manufacturers, including PM USA, who are original signatories to the MSA (the  Original
Participating Manufacturers  or  OPMs ) are participating in proceedings that may result in downward adjustments to the amounts paid by the OPMs and the other MSA-participating manufacturers to the states and territories that are
parties to the MSA for each of the years 2003 to 2008. The proceedings relate to an MSA payment adjustment (the  NPM Adjustment ) based on the collective loss of market share for the relevant year by all participating manufacturers who are
subject to the payment obligations and marketing restrictions of the MSA to non-participating manufacturers ( NPMs ) who are not subject to such obligations and restrictions.      As part of these proceedings, an independent economic consulting firm jointly selected by the MSA parties or otherwise selected pursuant to the
MSA s provisions is required to determine whether the disadvantages of the MSA were a  significant factor  contributing to the collective loss of market share for the year in question. If the firm determines that the disadvantages of
the MSA were such a  significant factor,  each state may avoid a downward adjustment to its share of the participating manufacturers  annual payments for that year by establishing that it diligently enforced a qualifying escrow
statute during the entirety of that year. Any potential downward adjustment would then be reallocated to any states that do not establish such diligent enforcement. PM USA believes that the MSA s arbitration clause requires a state to submit
its claim to have diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute to binding arbitration before a panel of three former federal judges in the manner provided for in the MSA.

A number of states have taken the position that this claim should be decided in state court on a state-by-state basis.      In March 2006, an independent economic consulting firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the
participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2003. In February 2007, this same firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers 
collective loss of market share for the year 2004. In February 2008, the same economic consulting firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of
market share for the year 2005. A different economic consulting firm was selected to make the  significant factor  determination regarding the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2006. In March
2009, this firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2006. Following the firm s determination for 2006, the
OPMs and the states agreed that the states will not contest that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the years 2007 and 2008 (and 2009, if
the participating manufacturers collectively sustain a sufficient loss of market share for that year as well). Accordingly, the OPMs and the states have agreed that no  significant factor  determination by the firm will be necessary with
respect to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the years 2007, 2008 and 2009.      Following the
economic consulting firm s determination with respect to 2003, thirty-eight states filed declaratory judgment actions in state courts seeking a declaration that the state diligently enforced its escrow statute during 2003. The OPMs and other
MSA-participating manufacturers have responded to these actions by filing motions to compel arbitration in accordance with the terms of the MSA, including filing motions to compel arbitration in eleven MSA states and territories that have not filed
declaratory judgment actions. Courts in all but one of the forty-six MSA states and the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico have ruled that the question of whether a state diligently enforced its escrow statute during 2003 is subject to
arbitration. One state court has ruled that the diligent enforcement claims of that state may be litigated in state court, rather than in arbitration. Several of these rulings may be subject to further review. PM USA, the other OPMs and
approximately twenty-five other MSA-participating manufacturers have entered into an agreement regarding arbitration with over forty MSA states concerning the 2003 NPM Adjustment, including the states  claims of diligent enforcement for 2003.
The selection of the arbitration panel for the 2003 NPM Adjustment is currently underway. The agreement further provides for a partial liability reduction for the 2003 NPM Adjustment for states that entered into the agreement by January 30,
2009 and are determined in the arbitration not to have diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute during 2003. Based on the number of states that entered into the agreement by January 30, 2009 (forty-five), the partial

60    

Table of Contents  

liability reduction for those states is 20%. The partial liability reduction would reduce the amount of PM USA s 2003 NPM Adjustment by up to a corresponding percentage. Proceedings to
determine state diligent enforcement claims for the years 2004 through 2008 have not yet been scheduled.      The availability and the
precise amount of any NPM Adjustment for 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 will not be finally determined until late 2010 or thereafter. There is no certainty that the OPMs and other MSA-participating manufacturers will ultimately receive any
adjustment as a result of these proceedings. If the OPMs do receive such an adjustment through these proceedings, the adjustment would be allocated among the OPMs pursuant to the MSA s provisions, and PM USA s share would likely be applied
as a credit against one or several future MSA payments.         
         National Grower Settlement Trust:  As part of the MSA, the settling defendants committed to work cooperatively with the tobacco-growing states to address
concerns about the potential adverse economic impact of the MSA on tobacco growers and quota holders. To that end, in 1999, four of the major domestic tobacco product manufacturers, including PM USA, established the National Tobacco Grower
Settlement Trust ( NTGST ), a trust fund to provide aid to tobacco growers and quota holders. The trust was to be funded by these four manufacturers over 12 years with payments, subject to application of various adjustments, scheduled to
total $5.15 billion. Provisions of the NTGST allowed for offsets to the extent that industry-funded payments were made for the benefit of growers or quota holders as part of a legislated end to the federal tobacco quota and price support program.
     In October 2004, FETRA was signed into law. FETRA provides for the elimination of the federal tobacco quota and price support program
through an industry-funded buy-out of tobacco growers and quota holders. The cost of the buy-out, which is estimated at approximately $9.5 billion, is being paid over 10 years by manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The cost
is being allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The quota buy-out payments offset already scheduled payments to the NTGST. In addition to the approximately $9.5 billion cost of
the buy-out, FETRA also obligated manufacturers and importers of tobacco products to cover any losses (up to $500 million) that the government incurred on the disposition of tobacco pool stock accumulated under the previous tobacco price support
program. PM USA, Middleton and USSTC are subject to the requirements of FETRA. Altria Group, Inc. does not currently anticipate that the quota buy-out will have a material adverse impact on its consolidated results in 2009 and beyond.      Two of the grower states, Maryland and Pennsylvania, filed claims in the North Carolina state courts, asserting that the companies which established
the NTGST (including PM USA) must continue making payments under the NTGST through 2010 for the benefit of Maryland and Pennsylvania growers (such continuing payments would represent slightly more than one percent of the originally scheduled
payments that would have been due to the NTGST for the years 2005

through 2010) notwithstanding the offsets resulting from the FETRA payments. The North Carolina trial court held in favor of Maryland and Pennsylvania, and the companies (including PM USA)
appealed. The North Carolina Court of Appeals, in December 2008, reversed the trial court ruling and entered summary judgment in favor of the companies. In January 2009, Maryland and Pennsylvania filed a notice of appeal to the North Carolina
Supreme Court. On November 6, 2009, the North Carolina Supreme Court upheld the decision of the North Carolina Court of Appeals, ruling in favor of PM USA and the other companies.                  Other MSA-Related
Litigation:  PM USA was named as a defendant in an action brought in October 2008 in federal court in Kentucky by an MSA participating manufacturer that is not an OPM. Other defendants include various other participating manufacturers and the
Attorneys General of all 52 states and territories that are parties to the MSA. The plaintiff alleged that certain of the MSA s payment provisions discriminate against it in favor of certain other participating manufacturers in violation
of the federal antitrust laws and the United States Constitution. The plaintiff also sought injunctive relief, alteration of certain MSA payment provisions as applied to it, treble damages under the federal antitrust laws, and/or rescission of its
joinder in the MSA. The plaintiff also filed a motion for a preliminary injunction enjoining the states from enforcing the allegedly discriminatory payment provisions against it during the pendency of the action. In January 2009, the district court
dismissed the complaint and denied plaintiff s request for preliminary injunctive relief. On January 5, 2010, the court entered final judgment dismissing the case. On January 13, 2010, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal to the United
States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.      In December 2008, PM USA was named as a defendant in an action seeking declaratory relief
under the MSA. The action was filed in California state court by the same MSA participating manufacturer that filed the Kentucky action discussed in the preceding paragraph. Other defendants included the State of California and various other
participating manufacturers. The plaintiff sought a declaratory judgment that its proposed amended adherence agreement with California and other states that are parties to the MSA was consistent with provisions in the MSA, and that the MSA s
limited most favored nations provision does not apply to the proposed agreement. Plaintiff sought no damages in this action. In July 2009, the court granted defendants  motion for summary judgment and subsequently entered final judgment in
favor of defendants on all claims asserted by plaintiff. Plaintiff then filed an appeal. The State of California informed the plaintiff and the appeals court on November 17, 2009 that it no longer intends to enter into the amended adherence
agreement with the plaintiff. As a result, on December 23, 2009, the participating manufacturer defendants, including PM USA, filed a motion to dismiss the appeal as moot. On January 14, 2010, plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the appeal,
concluding the litigation.      Without naming PM USA or any other private party as a defendant, NPMs and/or their distributors or customers
have filed several legal challenges to the MSA and related legis
- -  

61    

Table of Contents  

lation. New York state officials are defendants in a lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in which cigarette importers allege that the MSA
and/or related legislation violates federal antitrust laws and the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution. In a separate proceeding pending in the same court, plaintiffs assert the same theories against not only New York officials but
also the Attorneys General for thirty other states. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has held that the allegations in both actions, if proven, establish a basis for relief on antitrust and Commerce Clause grounds and that
the trial courts in New York have personal jurisdiction sufficient to enjoin other states  officials from enforcing their MSA-related legislation. On remand in those two actions, one trial court has granted summary judgment for the New York
officials and lifted a preliminary injunction against New York officials  enforcement against plaintiffs of the state s  allocable share  amendment to the MSA s Model Escrow Statute; the other trial court has held that
plaintiffs are unlikely to succeed on the merits. The former decision is on appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.      In another action, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed a trial court s dismissal of challenges to MSA-related legislation in Louisiana under the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States
Constitution. On remand in that case, and in another case filed against the Louisiana Attorney General, trial courts have granted summary judgment for the Louisiana Attorney General. Both of those decisions are on appeal to the United States Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.      The United States Courts of Appeals for the Sixth, Eighth, Ninth and Tenth Circuits have affirmed
dismissals or grants of summary judgment in favor of state officials in four other cases asserting antitrust and constitutional challenges to the allocable share amendment legislation in those states. On December 30, 2009, the plaintiff in the
Eighth Circuit case filed a petition for  certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court.      Another proceeding has been initiated
before an international arbitration tribunal under the provisions of the North American Free Trade Agreement. A hearing on the merits is scheduled for February 2010.                  Federal Government s
Lawsuit:  In 1999, the United States government filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia against various cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA, and others, including Altria Group, Inc. asserting claims
under three federal statutes, namely the Medical Care Recovery Act ( MCRA ), the MSP provisions of the Social Security Act and the civil provisions of RICO. Trial of the case ended in June 2005. The lawsuit sought to recover an unspecified
amount of health care costs for tobacco-related illnesses allegedly caused by defendants  fraudulent and tortious conduct and paid for by the government under various federal health care programs, including Medicare, military and veterans 
health benefits programs, and the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. The complaint alleged that such costs total more than $20 billion annually. It also sought what it alleged to be equi
- -  

table and declaratory relief, including disgorgement of profits which arose from defendants  allegedly tortious conduct, an injunction prohibiting certain actions by the defendants, and a
declaration that the defendants are liable for the federal government s future costs of providing health care resulting from defendants  alleged past tortious and wrongful conduct. In September 2000, the trial court dismissed the
government s MCRA and MSP claims, but permitted discovery to proceed on the government s claims for relief under the civil provisions of RICO.      The government alleged that disgorgement by defendants of approximately $280 billion is an appropriate remedy. In May 2004, the trial court issued an order denying defendants  motion for partial summary
judgment limiting the disgorgement remedy. In February 2005, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit held that disgorgement is not a remedy available to the government under the civil provisions of RICO and
entered summary judgment in favor of defendants with respect to the disgorgement claim. In April 2005, the Court of Appeals denied the government s motion for rehearing. In July 2005, the government petitioned the United States Supreme Court
for further review of the Court of Appeals  ruling that disgorgement is not an available remedy, and in October 2005, the Supreme Court denied the petition.      In June 2005, the government filed with the trial court its proposed final judgment seeking remedies of approximately $14 billion, including $10 billion over a five-year period to fund a national smoking cessation
program and $4 billion over a ten-year period to fund a public education and counter-marketing campaign. Further, the government s proposed remedy would have required defendants to pay additional monies to these programs if targeted reductions
in the smoking rate of those under 21 are not achieved according to a prescribed timetable. The government s proposed remedies also included a series of measures and restrictions applicable to cigarette business operations   including, but
not limited to, restrictions on advertising and marketing, potential measures with respect to certain price promotional activities and research and development, disclosure requirements for certain confidential data and implementation of a monitoring
system with potential broad powers over cigarette operations.      In August 2006, the federal trial court entered judgment in favor of the
government. The court held that certain defendants, including Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA, violated RICO and engaged in 7 of the 8  sub-schemes  to defraud that the government had alleged. Specifically, the court found that:   
        
   defendants falsely denied, distorted and minimized the significant adverse health consequences of smoking;               defendants hid from the public that cigarette smoking and nicotine are addictive;
              defendants falsely denied that they control the level of nicotine delivered to create and sustain addiction;               defendants falsely marketed and promoted
 low tar/light  cigarettes as less harmful than full-flavor cigarettes;   

62    

Table of Contents  

defendants falsely denied that they intentionally marketed to youth;               defendants publicly and falsely denied that ETS is hazardous to
non-smokers; and               defendants suppressed scientific research.      The court did not impose monetary
penalties on the defendants, but ordered the following relief: (i) an injunction against  committing any act of racketeering  relating to the manufacturing, marketing, promotion, health consequences or sale of cigarettes in the United
States; (ii) an injunction against participating directly or indirectly in the management or control of the Council for Tobacco Research, the Tobacco Institute, or the Center for Indoor Air Research, or any successor or affiliated entities of
each; (iii) an injunction against  making, or causing to be made in any way, any material false, misleading, or deceptive statement or representation or engaging in any public relations or marketing endeavor that is disseminated to the
United States public and that misrepresents or suppresses information concerning cigarettes  (iv) an injunction against conveying any express or implied health message through use of descriptors on cigarette packaging or in cigarette
advertising or promotional material, including  lights,   ultra lights  and  low tar,  which the court found could cause consumers to believe one cigarette brand is less hazardous than another brand; (v) the
issuance of  corrective statements  in various media regarding the adverse health effects of smoking, the addictiveness of smoking and nicotine, the lack of any significant health benefit from smoking  low tar  or
 light  cigarettes, defendants  manipulation of cigarette design to ensure optimum nicotine delivery and the adverse health effects of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke; (vi) the disclosure on defendants  public
document websites and in the Minnesota document repository of all documents produced to the government in the lawsuit or produced in any future court or administrative action concerning smoking and health until 2021, with certain additional
requirements as to documents withheld from production under a claim of privilege or confidentiality; (vii) the disclosure of disaggregated marketing data to the government in the same form and on the same schedule as defendants now follow in
disclosing such data to the FTC for a period of ten years; (viii) certain restrictions on the sale or transfer by defendants of any cigarette brands, brand names, formulas or cigarette businesses within the United States; and (ix) payment
of the government s costs in bringing the action.      In September 2006, defendants filed notices of appeal to the United States Court
of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and in October 2006, a three judge panel of the Court of Appeals stayed the trial court s judgment pending its review of the decision. Certain defendants, including PM USA and Altria Group, Inc.,
filed a motion to clarify the trial court s August 2006 Final Judgment and Remedial Order. In March 2007, the trial court denied in part and granted in part defendants  post-trial motion for clarification of portions of the court s
remedial order.   

In May 2009, a three-judge panel of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued
a  per curiam  decision largely affirming the trial court s judgment against defendants and in favor of the government. Although the panel largely affirmed the remedial order that was issued by the trial court, it vacated the following
aspects of the order:               its application to defendants  subsidiaries;               the prohibition on the use of express or implied health messages or health descriptors,
but only to the extent of extraterritorial application;               its point-of-sale display provisions; and               its application to Brown   Williamson
Holdings.      The Court of Appeals panel remanded the case for the trial court to reconsider these four aspects of the injunction and to
reformulate its remedial order accordingly.      Furthermore, the Court of Appeals panel rejected all of the government s and
intervenor s cross appeal arguments and refused to broaden the remedial order entered by the trial court. The Court of Appeals panel also left undisturbed its prior holding that the government cannot obtain disgorgement as a permissible remedy
under RICO.      In July 2009, defendants filed petitions for a rehearing before the panel and for a rehearing by the entire Court of
Appeals. Defendants also filed a motion to vacate portions of the trial court s judgment on the grounds of mootness because of the passage of legislation granting FDA broad authority over the regulation of tobacco products. In September 2009,
the Court of Appeals entered three  per curiam  rulings. Two of them denied defendants  petitions for panel rehearing or for rehearing  en banc . In the third  per curiam  decision, the Court of Appeals denied defendants 
suggestion of mootness and motion for partial  vacatur . In September 2009, defendants petitioned the Court of Appeals to issue a stay of its mandate pending the filing and disposition of petitions for  writs of certiorari  to the United
States Supreme Court. In October 2009, the Court of Appeals granted the motion in part, staying the issuance of the mandate until December 28, 2009. On December 11, 2009, the Court of Appeals extended the stay of the mandate through the
Supreme Court s final disposition of defendants   certiorari  petitions. The petitions are now scheduled to be filed in February 2010. The trial court s judgment and remedial orders remain stayed.        Lights/Ultra Lights  Cases                   Overview:  Plaintiffs in certain pending matters seek certification of
their cases as class actions and allege, among other things, that the uses of the terms  Lights  and/or  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud, or RICO violations, and seek injunctive and
equitable relief, including restitution and, in certain cases, punitive damages. These class actions have been brought against PM USA and, in certain instances, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries, on behalf of individuals who purchased and
consumed various brands of cigarettes, including  Marlboro Lights, Marlboro Ultra Lights, Virginia Slims Lights  and 

63    

Table of Contents  

Superslims, Merit Lights  and  Cambridge Lights.  Defenses raised in these cases include lack of misrepresentation, lack of causation, injury, and damages, the statute of limitations,
express preemption by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act ( FCLAA ) and implied preemption by the policies and directives of the Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ), non-liability under state statutory provisions
exempting conduct that complies with federal regulatory directives, and the First Amendment. As of January 15, 2010, a total of twenty-eight such cases were pending in the United States. Fourteen of these cases were pending in a multidistrict
litigation proceeding in a single U.S. federal court. Two of the cases were pending in federal courts but are not part of the multidistrict litigation proceedings. The other twelve cases were pending in various U.S. state courts. In addition, a
purported  Lights  class action is pending against PM USA in Israel. Other entities have stated that they are considering filing such actions against Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA.                  The Good Case:  In May 2006, a federal trial court in Maine granted PM USA s motion for summary judgment in  Good , a purported  Lights  class action, on the grounds that
plaintiffs  claims are preempted by the FCLAA and dismissed the case. In August 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit vacated the district court s grant of PM USA s motion for summary judgment on federal
preemption grounds and remanded the case to district court. The district court stayed the case pending the United States Supreme Court s ruling on defendants  petition for  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court,
which was granted in January 2008. The case was stayed pending the United States Supreme Court s decision. In December 2008, the United States Supreme Court ruled that plaintiffs  claims are not barred by federal preemption.
Although the Court rejected the argument that the FTC s actions were so extensive with respect to the descriptors that the state law claims were barred as a matter of federal law, the Court s decision was limited: it did not address the
ultimate merits of plaintiffs  claim, the viability of the action as a class action, or other state law issues. The case has been returned to the federal court in Maine for further proceedings and has been consolidated with other federal cases
in the multidistrict litigation proceeding discussed below.                  Developments Since December 2008 Good Decision:  Since the December 2008 U.S. Supreme Court decision in  Good , and
through January 15, 2010, twenty-one  Lights  class actions were served upon PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. These twenty-one cases were filed in 13 states and the District of Columbia. All of these cases either were filed in federal
court or were removed to federal court by PM USA.      In April 2009, a petition was filed with the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
Litigation ( JPMDL ) to transfer and consolidate pretrial proceedings in a number of  Lights  class actions. In September 2009, the JPMDL granted this motion and ordered that eight  Lights  cases be transferred to the
U.S. District Court for the District of Maine for pretrial proceedings ( MDL proceeding ). Since the September 2009 order was entered, the JPMDL has transferred additional cases to the MDL proceeding .  Plaintiffs in some of these

cases chose to dismiss their cases following the transfer to the MDL proceedings. As of January 15, 2010, fourteen cases against Altria Group, Inc. and/or PM USA were pending in or awaiting
transfer to the MDL proceeding. These cases, and the states in which each originated, are:  Biundo  (Illinois),  Corse  (Tennessee),  Domaingue  (New York),  Good  (Maine),  Haubrich  (Pennsylvania),  Mirick 
(Mississippi),  Mulford  (New Mexico),  Parsons  (District of Columbia),  Robinson  (Louisiana),  Slater  (the District of Columbia),  Tang  (New York),  Tyrer  (California),  Williams  (Arkansas) and  Wyatt 
(formerly  Nikolic ) (Wisconsin).      The cases voluntarily dismissed without prejudice by plaintiffs from the MDL proceeding as of
January 15, 2010 are:  Alcorn  (Tennessee),  Boyd  (Florida),  Fray  (Colorado),  Gisick  (Kansas),  Hanson  (Texas),  LeBoeuf  (Louisiana),  Moos  (Kansas),  Newman  (Louisiana),  Rosenthal
 (Florida),  Salazar  (Texas) and  Weber  (Pennsylvania).      On November 20, 2009, plaintiffs in the MDL proceeding filed
a motion seeking collateral estoppel effect from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see  Federal Government s Lawsuit  described above). On January 22, 2010, PM USA filed a motion for summary judgment regarding
plaintiffs  claims for purchases made after December 1, 2002.      The September 2009 consolidation order by the JPMDL denied the
application as to three cases ( Cleary, Caronia  and  Schwab ).                   Lights  Cases Dismissed, Not Certified or Ordered De-Certified:  To date, 13 courts in 14  Lights 
cases have refused to certify class actions, dismissed class action allegations, reversed prior class certification decisions or have entered judgment in favor of PM USA.      Trial courts in Arizona, Kansas, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon, Tennessee and Washington have refused to grant class certification or have dismissed plaintiffs  class action allegations. Plaintiffs
voluntarily dismissed a case in Michigan after a trial court dismissed the claims plaintiffs asserted under the Michigan Unfair Trade and Consumer Protection Act.      Several appellate courts have issued rulings that either affirmed rulings in favor of Altria Group, Inc. and/or PM USA or reversed rulings entered in favor of plaintiffs. In Florida, an intermediate appellate court
overturned an order by a trial court that granted class certification in  Hines . The Florida Supreme Court denied review in January 2008. The Supreme Court of Illinois has overturned a judgment that awarded damages to a certified class in
the  Price  case. See  The Price Case  below for further discussion. In Louisiana, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit dismissed a purported  Lights  class action brought in Louisiana federal court
( Sullivan ) on the grounds that plaintiffs  claims were preempted by the FCLAA. In New York, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit overturned a decision by a New York trial court in  Schwab  that denied
defendants  summary judgment motions and granted plaintiffs  motion for certification of a nationwide class of all United States residents that purchased cigarettes in the United States that were labeled  Light  or
 Lights.  In Ohio, the Ohio Supreme Court

64    

Table of Contents  

overturned class certifications in the  Marrone  and  Phillips  cases. Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed both cases in August 2009. In Oregon ( Pearson ), a state court denied
plaintiff s motion for interlocutory review of the trial court s refusal to certify a class. In February 2007, PM USA filed a motion for summary judgment based on federal preemption and the Oregon statutory exemption. In September 2007,
the district court granted PM USA s motion based on express preemption under the FCLAA, and plaintiffs appealed this dismissal and the class certification denial to the Oregon Court of Appeals. The Supreme Court of Washington denied a motion
for interlocutory review filed by the plaintiffs in the  Davies  case that sought review of an order by the trial court that refused to certify a class. Plaintiffs subsequently voluntarily dismissed the  Davies  case with prejudice.
Plaintiffs in the New Mexico case ( Mulford ) renewed their motion for class certification, which motion was denied by the federal district court in March 2009, with leave to file a new motion for class certification.                  Other Developments:  In  Cleary,  which is pending in an Illinois federal court, the district court dismissed plaintiffs   Lights  claims against one defendant and denied
plaintiffs  request to remand the case to state court. In September 2009, the court issued its ruling on PM USA s and the remaining defendants  motion for summary judgment as to all  Lights  claims. The court granted
the motion as to all defendants except PM USA. As to PM USA, the court granted the motion as to all  Lights  and other low tar brands other than  Marlboro Lights . As to  Marlboro Lights , the court ordered briefing on why the
2002 state court order dismissing the  Marlboro Lights  claims should not be vacated based upon  Good . On January 13, 2010, the court vacated the previous dismissal. Plaintiffs  motion for class certification and
defendants  motions for summary judgment have been fully briefed and await decision.      On December 4, 2009, the state trial
court in the  Holmes  case (pending in Delaware), denied PM USA s motion for summary judgment based on an exemption provision in the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act.                  The Price Case:  Trial in
the  Price  case commenced in state court in Illinois in January 2003, and in March 2003, the judge found in favor of the plaintiff class and awarded $7.1 billion in compensatory damages and $3 billion in punitive damages against PM USA. In
connection with the judgment, PM USA deposited into escrow various forms of collateral, including cash and negotiable instruments. In December 2005, the Illinois Supreme Court issued its judgment, reversing the trial court s judgment in favor
of the plaintiffs and directing the trial court to dismiss the case. In May 2006, the Illinois Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  motion for re-hearing, in November 2006, the United States Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  petition for 
writ of certiorari  and, in December 2006, the Circuit Court of Madison County enforced the Illinois Supreme Court s mandate and dismissed the case with prejudice. In January 2007, plaintiffs filed a motion to vacate or withhold judgment
based upon the United States Supreme Court s grant of the petition for  writ of certiorari  in  Watson  (described below). In May 2007, PM

USA filed applications for a  writ of mandamus  or a supervisory order with the Illinois Supreme Court seeking an order compelling the lower courts to deny plaintiffs  motion to vacate
and/or withhold judgment. In August 2007, the Illinois Supreme Court granted PM USA s motion for supervisory order and the trial court dismissed plaintiff s motion to vacate or withhold judgment. The collateral that PM USA deposited into
escrow after the initial 2003 judgment has since been released and returned to PM USA.      In December 2008, plaintiffs filed with the trial
court a petition for relief from the final judgment that was entered in favor of PM USA. Specifically, plaintiffs sought to vacate the 2005 Illinois Supreme Court judgment, contending that the United States Supreme Court s December 2008
decision in  Good  demonstrated that the Illinois Supreme Court s decision was  inaccurate.  PM USA filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs  petition and, in February 2009, the trial court granted PM USA s motion. In March
2009, the  Price  plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal with the Fifth Judicial District of the Appellate Court of Illinois. Argument is set to be held in February 2010.      In June 2009, the plaintiff in an individual smoker lawsuit ( Kelly ) brought on behalf of an alleged smoker of  Lights  cigarettes in
Madison County, Illinois state court filed a motion seeking a declaration that (1) his claims under the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act are not barred by the exemption in that statute based on his assertion that the Illinois Supreme Court s
decision in  Price  is no longer good law in light of the decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court in  Good  and  Watson , and (2) their claims are not preempted in light of the U.S. Supreme Court s decision in  Good . In
September 2009, the court granted plaintiff s motion as to federal preemption, but denied it with respect to the state statutory exemption.                  Trial Court Class Certifications:  Trial courts have certified classes
against PM USA in Massachusetts ( Aspinall ), Minnesota ( Curtis ), and Missouri ( Craft ). PM USA has appealed or otherwise challenged these class certification orders. Significant developments in these cases include:            
    Aspinall:  In August 2004, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court affirmed the class certification order. In August 2006, the trial court denied PM USA s motion for summary judgment and granted plaintiffs  motion
for summary judgment on the defenses of federal preemption and a state law exemption to Massachusetts  consumer protection statute. On motion of the parties, the trial court subsequently reported its decision to deny summary judgment to the
appeals court for review and stayed further proceedings pending completion of the appellate review. In December 2008, subsequent to the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good , the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court issued an
order requesting that the parties advise the court within 30 days whether the  Good  decision is dispositive of federal preemption issues pending on appeal. In January 2009, PM USA notified the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court that 
Good  is dispositive of the federal preemption issues on appeal, but requested further briefing on the state law statutory exemption issue. In March 2009, the

65    

Table of Contents  

Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court affirmed the order denying summary judgment to PM USA and granting the plaintiffs  cross-motion. On January 15, 2010, plaintiffs moved for partial
summary judgment as to liability claiming collateral estoppel from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see  Federal Government s Lawsuit  described above).                  Curtis : In April 2005, the Minnesota Supreme Court denied PM USA s petition for interlocutory review of the trial court s class certification order. In October 2009, the trial court denied
plaintiffs  motion for partial summary judgment, filed in February 2009, claiming collateral estoppel from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see  Federal Government s Lawsuit  described above). In
October 2009, the trial court granted PM USA s motion for partial summary judgment, filed in August 2009, as to all consumer protection counts and, on December 4, 2009, dismissed the case in its entirety. The period for filing an appeal
expires on February 8, 2010.          
      Craft:  In August 2005, a Missouri Court of Appeals affirmed the class certification order. On December 17, 2009, the trial court denied plaintiff s motion for
reconsideration of the period during which potential class members can qualify to become part of the class. The class period remains 1995   2003. The court set a trial date for January 2011.      In addition to these cases, in June 2007, the United States Supreme Court reversed the lower court rulings in the  Watson  case that denied
plaintiffs  motion to have the case heard in a state, as opposed to federal, trial court. The Supreme Court rejected defendant s contention that the case must be tried in federal court under the  federal officer  statute. The
case has been remanded to the state trial court in Arkansas.      In the  Miner  case, which is pending in a state court in Arkansas,
plaintiffs in August 2007 renewed their motion for certification of a class composed of individuals who purchased  Marlboro Lights  or  Cambridge Lights  brands in Arkansas. In October 2007, the court denied PM USA s motion to dismiss
on procedural grounds and the court entered a case management order.       Certain Other Tobacco-Related Litigation                   Tobacco Price Cases:  As of December 31, 2009, two separate cases were pending, one in Kansas and one in New Mexico, in which plaintiffs allege that defendants, including PM USA, conspired to fix
cigarette prices in violation of antitrust laws. Altria Group, Inc. is a defendant in the case in Kansas. Plaintiffs  motions for class certification have been granted in both cases. In June 2006, defendants  motion for summary judgment
was granted in the New Mexico case. In November 2008, the New Mexico Court of Appeals reversed the trial court decision granting summary judgment as to certain defendants, including PM USA. In February 2009, the New Mexico Supreme Court granted
the petition for  writ of certiorari  filed by PM USA and the other defendants. Argu
- -  

ment is scheduled to be held in February 2010. The case in Kansas is pending; there is no trial date.                  Cases Under the California Business and Professions
Code:  In June 1997, a lawsuit ( Brown ) was filed in California state court alleging that domestic cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA and others, have violated California Business and Professions Code Sections 17200 and 17500
regarding unfair, unlawful and fraudulent business practices. Class certification was granted as to plaintiffs  claims that class members are entitled to reimbursement of the costs of cigarettes purchased during the class periods and injunctive
relief. In September 2004, the trial court granted defendants  motion for summary judgment as to plaintiffs  claims attacking defendants  cigarette advertising and promotion and denied defendants  motion for summary judgment on
plaintiffs  claims based on allegedly false affirmative statements. Plaintiffs  motion for rehearing was denied. In March 2005, the court granted defendants  motion to decertify the class based on a California law, which  inter
alia  limits the ability to bring a lawsuit to only those plaintiffs who have  suffered injury in fact  and  lost money or property  as a result of defendant s alleged statutory violations ( Proposition 64 ). In
two July 2006 opinions, the California Supreme Court held Proposition 64 applicable to pending cases (the  Proposition 64 Cases ). Plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration of the order that decertified the class was denied, and
plaintiffs appealed. In September 2006, an intermediate appellate court affirmed the trial court s order decertifying the class. In May 2009, the California Supreme Court reversed the trial court decision that was affirmed by the appellate
court and remanded the case to the trial court. Defendants filed a rehearing petition in June 2009. In August 2009, the California Supreme Court denied defendants  rehearing petition and issued its mandate. In October 2009, the trial court
began review of the question whether it should reconsider its September 2004 order granting partial summary judgment to defendants with respect to plaintiffs   Lights  claims on the basis of judicial decisions issued since its order
was issued, including the United States Supreme Court s ruling in  Good . Argument is set to be held in February 2010.      In May
2004, a lawsuit ( Gurevitch ) was filed in California state court on behalf of a purported class of all California residents who purchased the  Merit  brand of cigarettes since July 2000 to the present alleging that defendants, including
PM USA, violated California s Business and Professions Code Sections 17200 and 17500 regarding unfair, unlawful and fraudulent business practices, including false and misleading advertising. The complaint also alleges violations of
California s Consumer Legal Remedies Act. Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief, disgorgement, restitution, and attorneys  fees. In July 2005, defendants  motion to dismiss was granted; however, plaintiffs  motion for leave to amend
the complaint was also granted, and plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in September 2005. In October 2005, the court stayed this action pending the California Supreme Court s rulings in the Proposition 64 Cases. In September 2006, the stay
was lifted and defendants filed their demurrer to plaintiffs  amended complaint. In March 2007, the court, without

66    

Table of Contents  

ruling on the demurrer, again stayed the action pending rulings from the California Supreme Court in another case involving Proposition 64 ( Brown,  described above) that is relevant to PM
USA s demurrer. After the California Supreme Court s decision in  Brown,  the case reactivated and in August 2009, PM USA filed its demurrer to plaintiffs  amended complaint. On November 29, 2009, the court sustained PM
USA s demurrer to all of plaintiffs  claims, dismissing the case in its entirety.                  Ignition Propensity Cases  :    PM USA is currently a defendant in six wrongful death actions in which
plaintiffs contend that fires caused by cigarettes led to other individuals  deaths. In one case pending in federal court in Massachusetts ( Sarro ), the district court in August 2009 granted in part PM USA s motion to dismiss,
but ruled that two claims unrelated to product design could go forward. On January 13, 2010, plaintiff filed a motion for reconsideration or to certify questions to the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court. In a Kentucky federal court case
( Walker ), the court dismissed plaintiffs  claims in February 2009 and plaintiffs subsequently filed a notice of appeal. In September 2009 the appeals court dismissed plaintiffs  appeal for want of prosecution but on
November 23, 2009, plaintiffs  appeal was reinstated. The four remaining actions are  Green  and  Hallmark  (each filed in April 2009 in Alabama state court),  Kerr  (filed in Mississippi state court in February 2009
and removed by PM USA to Mississippi federal court in July 2009) and  Villarreal  (filed in Texas state court in July 2009 against Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA and removed by PM USA to federal court in August 2009). In  Villarreal ,
plaintiff s motion to remand is pending.       UST Litigation                   Types of Cases:  Claims
related to smokeless tobacco products generally fall within the following categories:      First, UST and/or its tobacco subsidiaries has
been named in certain health care cost reimbursement/third-party recoupment/class action litigation against the major domestic cigarette companies and others seeking damages and other relief. The complaints in these cases on their face predominantly
relate to the usage of cigarettes; within that context, certain complaints contain a few allegations relating specifically to smokeless tobacco products. These actions are in varying stages of pretrial activities.      Second, UST and/or its tobacco subsidiaries has been named in certain actions in West Virginia brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs against
cigarette manufacturers, smokeless tobacco manufacturers, and other organizations seeking damages and other relief in connection with injuries allegedly sustained as a result of tobacco usage, including smokeless tobacco products.      Included among the plaintiffs are five individuals alleging use of USSTC s smokeless tobacco products and alleging the types of injuries claimed
to be associated with the use of smokeless tobacco products. While certain of these actions had not been consolidated for pretrial and trial proceedings, USSTC, along with other non-cigarette manufacturers, has

remained severed from such proceedings since December 2001.      Third, UST and/or its
tobacco subsidiaries has been named in a number of other individual tobacco and health suits. Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in these cases are based on various theories of recovery, such as negligence, strict liability, fraud,
misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, breach of implied warranty, addiction, and breach of consumer protection statutes. Plaintiffs seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and punitive damages, and certain equitable relief,
including but not limited to disgorgement. Defenses raised in these cases include lack of causation, assumption of the risk, comparative fault and/or contributory negligence, and statutes of limitations. USSTC is currently named in an action in
Florida ( Vassallo ) and in an action in Connecticut ( Hill ). Trial in the  Hill  case is set to commence in December 2010.                  Antitrust Litigation:  Following a previous antitrust action brought
against UST and certain of its tobacco subsidiaries by a competitor, Conwood Company L.P., UST and certain of its tobacco subsidiaries were named as defendants in certain actions brought by indirect purchasers (consumers) in a number of
jurisdictions. As indirect purchasers of USSTC s smokeless tobacco products during various periods of time ranging from January 1990 to the date of certification or potential certification of the proposed classes, plaintiffs in those
actions allege, individually and on behalf of putative class members in a particular state or individually and on behalf of class members in the applicable states, that UST and certain of its tobacco subsidiaries violated the antitrust laws, unfair
and deceptive trade practices statutes and/or common law of those states. In connection with these actions, plaintiffs sought to recover compensatory and statutory damages in an amount not to exceed $75,000 per purported class member or per class
member, and certain other relief. The indirect purchaser actions, as filed, were similar in all material respects.      The indirect
purchaser actions have been settled in all jurisdictions. Pursuant to the settlements in all jurisdictions except California and Massachusetts, adult consumers received or will receive coupons redeemable on future purchases of USSTC s moist
smokeless tobacco products, and UST agreed to pay all related administrative costs and plaintiffs  attorneys  fees. As of December 31, 2009, UST has recognized a liability of approximately $7.9 million, reflecting the costs
attributable to coupons previously distributed to Kansas, New Hampshire, New York and Wisconsin class members, which are redeemable on future purchases of USSTC s moist smokeless tobacco products. The California and Massachusetts settlements
were for cash only and did not involve distribution of coupons.                  Other Litigation:  In September 2008, plaintiffs filed a purported class action on behalf of a purported class of UST
stockholders in Superior Court in Connecticut to enjoin the proposed acquisition of UST by Altria Group, Inc., alleging, among other things, that UST and/or nine of its directors had violated their fiduciary duties by agreeing to the terms of the

67    

Table of Contents  

acquisition and that Altria Group, Inc. had aided and abetted in the alleged violation. In October 2008, plaintiffs amended the complaint to add allegations concerning UST s definitive proxy
statement and certain benefits payable to UST s officers in connection with the transaction. The amended complaint also included aiding and abetting claims against UST. In December 2008, the parties entered into a Memorandum of Understanding to
settle this lawsuit and resolve all claims. The settlement received final court approval in October 2009. The settlement amount was immaterial.       Certain Other Actions                   IRS Challenges to PMCC Leases:  The IRS concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999, and issued a final
Revenue Agent s Report ( RAR ) in March 2006. The RAR disallowed benefits pertaining to certain PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. Altria Group, Inc. agreed with all conclusions of the RAR, with the
exception of the disallowance of benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. Altria Group, Inc. contests approximately $150 million of tax and net interest assessed and paid with regard to them.
The IRS may in the future challenge and disallow more of PMCC s leveraged lease benefits based on Revenue Rulings, an IRS Notice and subsequent case law addressing specific types of leveraged leases (lease-in/lease-out ( LILO ) and
sale-in/lease-out ( SILO ) transactions).      In October 2006, Altria Group, Inc. filed a complaint in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York to claim refunds on a portion of these tax payments and associated interest for the years 1996 and 1997. In July 2009, the jury returned a unanimous verdict in favor of the IRS and subsequently Altria
Group, Inc. filed motions for judgment as a matter of law or, in the alternative, for a new trial.      In March 2008, Altria Group, Inc.
filed a second complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking a refund of the tax payments and associated interest for the years 1998 and 1999 attributable to the disallowance of benefits claimed in those
years with respect to the leases subject to the recent jury verdict and with respect to certain other leases entered into in 1998 and 1999.      Based on Notices of Proposed Adjustments received by Altria Group, Inc., we expect that the IRS will challenge and disallow tax benefits claimed by Altria Group, Inc. with respect to the leases subject to the recent jury verdict plus other
PMCC leveraged lease transactions characterized by the IRS as LILOs and SILOs, including benefits claimed from LILO and SILO transactions entered into during both the 1996   1999 years and the 2000   2003 years. Altria Group, Inc. plans to
contest proposed leveraged lease adjustments made by the IRS. The total disallowance for 2000   2003 for these leases in federal income tax and related interest would be approximately $1.0 billion.      If the tax benefits for the transactions entered into from 1996 to 2003 were similarly disallowed for the period Jan
- -  

uary 1, 2004 through December 31, 2009, the disallowance for such period for these leases in federal income tax and related interest would be approximately $900 million, taking into
account federal income tax paid or payable on gains associated with sales of leased assets during that period.      The payment, if any, of
the foregoing amounts would depend upon the timing and outcome of the ongoing 2000  2003 audit and future IRS audits and any related administrative challenges or litigation.      LILO and SILO transactions represent approximately 40% of the Net Finance Assets of PMCC s lease portfolio. PMCC entered into no LILO or SILO
transactions after 2003.      Should Altria Group, Inc. not prevail in these matters, Altria Group, Inc. may have to accelerate the payment
of significant amounts of federal income tax, pay associated interest costs and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the income from the affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and
cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year.                  Kraft Thrift Plan Case:  Four participants in the Kraft Foods Global, Inc. Thrift Plan ( Kraft Thrift Plan ), a
defined contribution plan, filed a class action complaint on behalf of all participants and beneficiaries of the Kraft Thrift Plan in July 2008 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging breach of fiduciary
duty under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ). Named defendants in this action include Altria Corporate Services, Inc. (now Altria Client Services Inc.) and certain company committees that allegedly had a relationship to
the Kraft Thrift Plan. Plaintiffs request, among other remedies, that defendants restore to the Kraft Thrift Plan all losses improperly incurred. The Altria Group, Inc. defendants deny any violation of ERISA or other unlawful conduct and
intend to defend the case vigorously. Under the terms of a Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft, Altria Client Services Inc. and related defendants may be entitled to indemnity against any liabilities incurred in
connection with this case.       Environmental Regulation       Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise related to environmental
protection, including, in the United States: The Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as  Superfund ),
which can impose joint and several liability on each responsible party. Subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) of Altria Group, Inc. are involved in several matters subjecting them to potential costs of remediation and natural resource damages under
Superfund or other laws and regulations. Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in connection with environmental laws and regulations. Although it is not possible to predict precise levels of
environmental-related expenditures, compliance with such laws and regulations, including the payment of any

68    

Table of Contents  

remediation costs or damages and the making of such expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of
operations, capital expenditures, financial position, earnings or competitive position.       Guarantees       At December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. had a $12 million third-party guarantee, related to a divestiture, which was recorded as a liability on its consolidated
balance sheet. This guarantee has no specified expiration date. Altria Group, Inc. is required to perform under this guarantee in the event that a third party fails to make contractual payments. In the ordinary course of business, certain
subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. have agreed to indemnify a limited number of third parties in the event of future litigation. At December 31, 2009, subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. were also contingently liable for $25 million of
guarantees related to their own performance, consisting primarily of surety bonds. These items have not had, and are not expected to have, a significant impact on Altria Group, Inc. s liquidity.      Under the terms of a distribution agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI, entered into as a result of the PMI spin-off, liabilities concerning
tobacco products will be allocated based in substantial part on the manufacturer. PMI will indemnify Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA for liabilities related to tobacco products manufactured by PMI or contract manufactured for PMI by PM USA, and PM USA
will indemnify PMI for liabilities related to tobacco products manufactured by PM USA, excluding tobacco products contract manufactured for PMI. Altria Group, Inc. does not have a related liability recorded on its consolidated balance sheet at
December 31, 2009 as the fair value of this indemnification is insignificant.      As more fully discussed in Note 23.  Condensed
Consolidating Financial Information , PM USA has issued guarantees relating to Altria Group, Inc. s obligations under its outstanding debt securities and borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreements and its commercial paper program.
      Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest       In September
2007, UST completed the acquisition of  Stag s Leap Wine Cellars  through one of its consolidated subsidiaries, Michelle-Antinori, LLC ( Michelle-Antinori ), in which UST holds an 85% ownership interest with a 15% noncontrolling
interest held by Antinori California ( Antinori ). In connection with the acquisition of  Stag s Leap Wine Cellars , UST entered into a put arrangement with Antinori. The put arrangement, as later amended, provides Antinori with
the right to require UST to purchase its 15% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori at a price equal to Antinori s initial investment of $27 million. The put arrangement becomes exercisable beginning September 11, 2010. As of
December 31, 2009, the redemption value of the put arrangement did not exceed the noncontrolling interest balance. Therefore, no adjustment to the value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest was recognized in the consolidated balance sheet
for the put arrangement.   

The noncontrolling interest put arrangement is accounted for as mandatorily redeemable securities
because redemption is outside of the control of UST. As such, the redeemable noncontrolling interest is reported in the mezzanine equity section in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2009.           Note 23.                                     
                                         
                     Condensed Consolidating Financial      Information:      PM USA has issued guarantees relating to Altria Group,
Inc. s obligations under its outstanding debt securities, borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreements and amounts outstanding under its commercial paper program (the  Guarantees ). Pursuant to the Guarantees, PM USA fully and
unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor, the payment and performance of Altria Group, Inc. s obligations under the guaranteed debt instruments (the  Obligations ).      The Guarantees provide that PM USA fully and unconditionally guarantees the punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or
otherwise, of the Obligations. The liability of PM USA under the Guarantees is absolute and unconditional irrespective of: any lack of validity, enforceability or genuineness of any provision of any agreement or instrument relating thereto; any
change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Obligations, or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from any agreement or instrument relating thereto; any exchange, release or
non-perfection of any collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any other guarantee, for all or any of the Obligations; or any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a
discharge of, Altria Group, Inc. or PM USA.      The obligations of PM USA under the Guarantees are limited to the maximum amount as will,
after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of PM USA that are relevant under Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state
law to the extent applicable to the Guarantees, result in PM USA s obligations under the Guarantees not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. For this purpose,  Bankruptcy Law  means Title 11, U.S. Code, or any similar
federal or state law for the relief of debtors.      PM USA will be unconditionally released and discharged from its obligations under each
of the Guarantees upon the earliest to occur of:               the date, if any, on which PM USA consolidates with or merges into Altria Group, Inc. or any successor;            
   the date, if any, on which Altria Group, Inc. or any successor consolidates with or merges into PM USA;               the payment in full of the Obligations pertaining to such Guarantee; or            
   the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt by Standard   Poor s of A or higher.   

69    

Table of Contents  

At December 31, 2009, the respective principal wholly-owned subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA were not limited by long-term debt or other
agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their common stock.      The following sets
forth the condensed consolidating balance sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, condensed consolidating statements of earnings for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, and condensed consolidating statements of cash flows
for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 for Altria Group, Inc., PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. s other subsidiaries that are

not guarantors of Altria Group, Inc. s debt instruments (the  Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries ). The financial information is based on Altria Group, Inc. s understanding of the SEC
interpretation and application of Rule 3-10 of SEC Regulation S-X.      The financial information may not necessarily be indicative of
results of operations or financial position had PM USA and Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries operated as independent entities. Altria Group, Inc. accounts for investments in these subsidiaries under the equity method of accounting.   

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets
     December 31, 2009      (in millions of dollars)

70    

Table of Contents  

   Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets (Continued)      December 31, 2009      (in millions of dollars)       
       
    71    

Table of Contents  

   Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets      December 31, 2008      (in millions of dollars)       
       
    72    

Table of Contents  

   Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets (Continued)      December 31, 2008      (in millions of dollars)       
       
    73    

Table of Contents  

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Earnings      for the year ended December 31, 2009      (in millions of dollars)       
    Condensed Consolidating Statements of Earnings      for the year ended December 31, 2008      (in millions of dollars)

74    

Table of Contents  

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Earnings      for the year ended December 31, 2007      (in millions of dollars)       
       
    75    

Table of Contents  

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows      for the year ended December 31, 2009      (in millions of dollars)       
       
    76    

Table of Contents  

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows      for the year ended December 31, 2008      (in millions of dollars)       
       
    77    

Table of Contents  

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows      for the year ended December 31, 2007      (in millions of dollars)       
       
    78    

Table of Contents  

        Note 24.                                               

Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited):       
     Basic and diluted EPS are computed independently for each of the periods
presented. Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly EPS amounts may not agree to the total for the year.        
     The first quarter 2008 market price-high in the table above reflects
historical market price which is not adjusted to reflect the PMI spin-off.        Basic and diluted EPS are computed independently for each of the
periods presented. Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly EPS amounts may not agree to the total for the year.          
    79    

Table of Contents  

   During 2009 and 2008, the following pre-tax charges or (gains) were included in Altria Group,
Inc. s earnings from continuing operations:       
    As discussed in Note 16.  Income Taxes , Altria Group,
Inc. has recognized income tax benefits in the consolidated statements of earnings during 2009 and 2008 as a result of various tax events.         
    80    

Table of Contents  

     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Description of the Company      At December 31, 2009,
Altria Group, Inc. s wholly-owned subsidiaries included Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and certain smokeless products in the United States; UST LLC ( UST ),
which through its subsidiaries is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless products and wine; and John Middleton Co. ( Middleton ), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco. Philip
Morris Capital Corporation ( PMCC ), another wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc., maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct finance leases. In addition, Altria Group, Inc. held a 27.3% economic and voting interest in
SABMiller plc ( SABMiller ) at December 31, 2009. Altria Group, Inc. s access to the operating cash flows of its subsidiaries consists principally of cash received from the payment of dividends by its subsidiaries.      As discussed in Note 3.  Acquisitions  to the consolidated financial statements ( Note 3 ), on January 6, 2009, Altria Group,
Inc. acquired all of the outstanding common stock of UST, whose direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries include U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC ( USSTC ) and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd. ( Ste. Michelle ). As a result
of the acquisition, UST has become an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc.      Beginning with the first quarter of 2009,
Altria Group, Inc. revised its reportable segments to reflect the change in the way in which Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker reviews the business as a result of the acquisition of UST. At December 31, 2009, Altria
Group, Inc. s reportable segments were cigarettes, smokeless products, cigars, wine and financial services.      On March 28,
2008, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its interest in Philip Morris International Inc. ( PMI ) to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. On March 30, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining
interest in Kraft Foods Inc. ( Kraft ) on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. For a further discussion of the PMI and Kraft spin-offs, see Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation  to
the consolidated financial statements ( Note 1 ).      On December 11, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all of the
outstanding stock of Middleton for $2.9 billion in cash. For additional discussion of the Middleton acquisition, see Note 3.      Executive Summary
     The following executive summary is intended to provide significant highlights of the Discussion and Analysis that follows.      During 2009, Altria Group, Inc. completed the acquisition of UST and substantially completed the integration of UST into Altria Group, Inc. s
family of companies. In addition,

Altria Group, Inc. has largely completed a restructuring program that commenced in December 2008, and was expanded in August 2009. Pursuant to this program, Altria Group, Inc. has restructured
various corporate, manufacturing, and sales and marketing service functions as it completes the integration of UST into its operations and continues to focus on optimizing company-wide cost structures in light of ongoing declines in U.S. cigarette
volumes. On July 29, 2009, as part of its manufacturing optimization program, PM USA ceased production at its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and completed the consolidation of its cigarette manufacturing capacity into its
Richmond, Virginia facility. Also during 2009, Altria Group, Inc. issued $4.2 billion of long-term notes, which completed the long-term financing related to the acquisition of UST.       Consolidated Operating Results    The changes in Altria Group, Inc. s earnings from continuing operations and diluted earnings per
share ( EPS ) from continuing operations attributable to Altria Group, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2009, from the year ended December 31, 2008, were due primarily to the following:       
    See discussion of events affecting the comparability of statement of earnings
amounts in the Consolidated Operating Results section of the following Discussion and Analysis.       Shares Outstanding    Fewer
shares outstanding during 2009 compared with the prior year were due primarily to shares repurchased by Altria Group, Inc. during the second quarter of 2008 under its share repurchase program, which was suspended indefinitely in September 2009.

81    

Table of Contents  

Operations    The increase of $192 million shown in the table above was due primarily to
the following:               Acquisition of UST, which is reflected in the smokeless products and wine segments (see Note 3);               Higher income from cigarettes, financial
services and cigars;               Lower general corporate expenses; and               Higher equity earnings from SABMiller      partially offset by:                Higher interest and other debt expense, net, due to the issuance of senior unsecured long-term notes in November and December 2008 and
February 2009 to finance the acquisition of UST.       For further details, see the Consolidated Operating Results and Operating Results by Business
Segment sections of the following Discussion and Analysis.        2010 Forecasted Results    In January 2010, Altria Group, Inc. forecasted that
its 2010 full-year guidance for reported diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $1.78 to $1.82. This forecast includes estimated charges of $0.07 per share as detailed in the table below, as compared with 2009 full-year reported diluted EPS
of $1.54, which included $0.21 per share of net charges as detailed in the table below. Expected 2010 full-year adjusted diluted EPS, which excludes the charges in the table below, represent a growth rate of 6% to 8% over 2009 full-year adjusted
diluted EPS. The factors described in the  Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results  section of the following  Discussion and Analysis  represent continuing risks to this forecast.       Net Charges Included In Reported Diluted EPS        
    Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations is a
financial measure that is not consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ). Certain income and expense items that management believes are not part of underlying operations are
excluded from adjusted diluted EPS because such items can obscure underlying business trends. Management believes it is appropriate to disclose this non-GAAP financial measure to help investors analyze underlying business performance and trends.
This adjusted measure is regularly provided to Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker for use in the evaluation of segment performance and allocation of resources. This information should be considered as supplemental in nature and
is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.         

Discussion and Analysis       Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates       Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  to the consolidated financial
statements includes a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements. In most instances, Altria Group, Inc. must use an accounting policy or method
because it is the only policy or method permitted under U.S. GAAP.      The preparation of financial statements includes the use of
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenues and expenses during the reporting
periods. If actual amounts are ultimately different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations for the period in which the actual amounts become known. Historically, the
aggregate differences, if any, between Altria Group, Inc. s estimates and actual amounts in any year have not had a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements.      The following is a review of the more significant assumptions and estimates, as well as the accounting policies and methods used in the preparation
of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements:                   Consolidation     The consolidated financial statements include Altria Group, Inc., as well as its
wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries. Investments in which Altria Group, Inc. exercises significant influence (20%-50% ownership interest) are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. All intercompany transactions and balances
have been eliminated. The results of PMI prior to the PMI distribution date have been reflected as discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of earnings and statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.
The results of Kraft prior to the Kraft distribution date have been reflected as discontinued operations on the consolidated statement of earnings and statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2007. For a further discussion of the
PMI and Kraft spin-offs, see Note 1.                   Revenue Recognition     The consumer products businesses recognize revenues, net of sales incentives and sales returns, and including shipping and handling charges
billed to customers, upon shipment or delivery of goods when title and risk of loss pass to customers. Payments received in advance of revenue recognition are deferred and recorded in other accrued liabilities until revenue is recognized. Altria
Group, Inc. s consumer products businesses also include excise taxes billed to customers in revenues. Shipping and handling costs are classified as part of cost of sales.                   Depreciation, Amortization
and Intangible Asset     Valuation     Altria Group, Inc. depreciates property, plant and equipment, and amortizes its definite-lived intangible assets using the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the
assets.   

82    

Table of Contents  

Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded by Altria Group, Inc. at December 31, 2009 relate primarily to the acquisitions of UST in
2009 and Middleton in 2007 (see Note 3). Altria Group, Inc. is required to conduct an annual review of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment.      Goodwill impairment testing requires a comparison between the carrying value and fair value of each reporting unit. If the carrying value exceeds the
fair value, goodwill is considered impaired. The amount of impairment loss is measured as the difference between the carrying value and implied fair value of goodwill. Impairment testing for indefinite-lived intangible assets requires a comparison
between the fair value and carrying value of the intangible asset. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value. These calculations may be affected by interest rates, general
economic conditions, projected growth rates and tobacco-related taxes.      Altria Group, Inc. utilizes discounted cash flow analysis to
estimate the fair value of its reporting units including its indefinite-lived intangible assets. In performing a discounted cash flow analysis, Altria Group, Inc. makes various judgments, estimates and assumptions, the most significant of which are
future volume, income, growth rates, and discount rates. The analysis incorporates the assumptions in Altria Group, Inc. s long-term financial forecast. Assumptions are also made for perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term
financial forecast. Fair value calculations are sensitive to changes in these estimates and assumptions, some of which relate to broader macroeconomic conditions outside of Altria Group, Inc. s control.      During 2009, 2008 and 2007, Altria Group, Inc. completed its annual review of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and no charges
resulted from these reviews. Although economic conditions worsened during 2009, the annual review determined that the estimated fair values of the smokeless products and wine reporting units are not significantly different from the fair values
calculated at the time of acquisition in January 2009. In addition, there were no significant changes in the fair value of the cigars reporting unit from the 2008 annual review.                   Marketing and Advertising
Costs     Altria Group, Inc. s consumer products businesses record marketing costs as an expense in the year to which such costs relate. Altria Group, Inc. does not defer amounts on its year-end consolidated balance sheets with
respect to marketing costs. Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Consumer incentive and trade promotion activities are recorded as a reduction of revenues based on amounts estimated as being due to customers and consumers at the end of a
period, based principally on historical utilization and redemption rates. Such programs include, but are not limited to, discounts, coupons, rebates, in-store display incentives and volume-based incentives. For interim reporting purposes,
advertising and certain consumer incentive expenses are charged to operations as a percentage

of sales, based on estimated sales and related expenses for the full year.                   Contingencies     As discussed in Note 22.  Contingencies
 to the consolidated financial statements ( Note 22 ), and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  to Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K, legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United
States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including PM USA, as well as their respective indemnitees. In 1998, PM USA and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers entered into the Master Settlement
Agreement (the  MSA ) with 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. PM USA and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers had previously
settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (together with the MSA, the  State Settlement Agreements ). PM USA s portion of ongoing adjusted payments and legal fees is based on its relative share of the
settling manufacturers  domestic cigarette shipments, including roll-your-own cigarettes, in the year preceding that in which the payment is due. PM USA also entered into a trust agreement to provide certain aid to U.S. tobacco growers and
quota holders, but PM USA s obligations under this trust have now been eliminated by the obligations imposed on PM USA by the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ( FETRA ). USSTC and Middleton are also subject to obligations
imposed by FETRA. In addition, in June 2009, PM USA and a subsidiary of USSTC became subject to quarterly user fees imposed by the United States Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) as a result of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco
Control Act ( FSPTCA ). The State Settlement Agreements, FETRA, and the FDA user fees call for payments that are based on variable factors, such as volume, market share and inflation, depending on the subject payment. Altria Group,
Inc. s subsidiaries account for the cost of the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user fees as a component of cost of sales. As a result of the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user fees, Altria Group, Inc. s
subsidiaries recorded charges to cost of sales of $5.0 billion, $5.5 billion and $5.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. See Note 22, and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  to Altria Group, Inc. s
2009 Form 10-K, for a discussion of proceedings that may result in a downward adjustment of amounts paid under State Settlement Agreements for the years 2003 to 2008.      Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when they determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can
be reasonably estimated. Except as discussed in Note 22, and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  to Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K, at the present time, while it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur, (i)
management has concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result

83    

Table of Contents  

from an unfavorable outcome in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for
unfavorable outcomes, if any. Legal defense costs are expensed as incurred.                   Employee Benefit Plans     As discussed in Note 18.  Benefit Plans  to the consolidated financial
statements ( Note 18 ), Altria Group, Inc. provides a range of benefits to its employees and retired employees, including pensions, postretirement health care and postemployment benefits (primarily severance). Altria Group, Inc. records
annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by U.S. GAAP, which include various actuarial assumptions, such as discount rates, assumed rates of return on plan assets, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care
cost trend rates. Altria Group, Inc. reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate to do so. Any effect of the modifications is
generally amortized over future periods.      Altria Group, Inc. recognizes the funded status of its defined benefit pension and other
postretirement plans on the consolidated balance sheet and records as a component of other comprehensive earnings (losses), net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net
periodic benefit cost.      At December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. s discount rate assumptions for its pension plans decreased
to 5.9% from 6.1% at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. s discount rate assumptions for its postretirement plans decreased to 5.8% from 6.1% at December 31, 2008. Altria Group, Inc. presently anticipates
that an increase in the amortization of deferred gains and losses, coupled with the discount rate changes and other less significant assumption changes, partially offset by higher expected return on plan assets (due to the higher fair value of plan
assets at December 31, 2009) will result in an increase in the 2010 pre-tax pension and postretirement expense, not including amounts in each year related to early retirement programs, of approximately $20 million. A fifty basis point decrease
(increase) in Altria Group, Inc. s discount rates would increase (decrease) Altria Group, Inc. s pension and postretirement expense by approximately $41 million. Similarly, a fifty basis point decrease (increase) in the expected return on
plan assets would increase (decrease) Altria Group, Inc. s pension expense by approximately $26 million. See Note 18 for a sensitivity discussion of the assumed health care cost trend rates.                   Income Taxes     Altria Group, Inc. s deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities,
using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions.         

On January 1, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of the Financial Accounting
Standards Board ( FASB ) authoritative guidance which prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of
being realized upon ultimate settlement. As a result of the January 1, 2007 adoption, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its liability for unrecognized tax benefits by $1,021 million. This resulted in an increase to stockholders  equity of $857
million ($835 million, net of noncontrolling interest), a reduction of Kraft s goodwill of $85 million and a reduction of federal deferred tax benefits of $79 million.      On January 1, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of the FASB authoritative guidance requiring the revenue recognition calculation
to be reevaluated if there is a revision to the projected timing of income tax cash flows generated by a leveraged lease. The adoption of this guidance by Altria Group, Inc. resulted in a reduction to stockholders  equity of $124 million as of
January 1, 2007.      The effective tax rate of 34.2% in 2009 included tax benefits of $88 million from the reversal of tax reserves
and associated interest resulting from the execution of the closing agreement with the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) as discussed in Note 16.  Income Taxes  to the consolidated financial statements ( Note 16 ). The
effective tax rate in 2009 also included a benefit of $53 million from the utilization of net operating losses. The effective tax rate of 35.5% in 2008 included net tax benefits of $58 million primarily from the reversal of tax accruals no longer
required. The effective tax rate of 33.1% in 2007 included net tax benefits of $168 million related to the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest resulting from the expiration of statutes of limitations, and the reversal of tax accruals no
longer required.                   Hedging     As discussed in  Market Risk,  Altria Group, Inc. uses derivative financial instruments principally to reduce exposures to market risks
resulting from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates by creating offsetting exposures. Altria Group, Inc. meets the requirements of U.S. GAAP where it has elected to apply hedge accounting to derivatives. As a result, gains and
losses on these derivatives are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) and recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings in the periods when the related hedged transaction is also recognized in operating results. If
Altria Group, Inc. had elected not to use and comply with the hedge accounting provisions permitted under U.S. GAAP, gains (losses) deferred in stockholders  equity as of December 31, 2007, would have

84    

Table of Contents  

been recorded in net earnings. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, Altria Group, Inc. had no derivative financial instruments.                   Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets     Altria Group, Inc. reviews long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully
recoverable. Altria Group, Inc. performs undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if an impairment exists. These analyses are affected by general economic conditions and projected growth rates. For purposes of recognition and
measurement of an impairment of assets held for use, Altria Group, Inc. groups assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identifiable. If an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is
calculated based on fair value. Impairment losses on assets to be disposed of, if any, are based on the estimated proceeds to be received, less costs of disposal. Altria Group, Inc. also reviews the estimated remaining useful lives of long-lived
assets whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate the lives may have changed.                   Leasing     Approximately 98% of PMCC s net revenues in 2009 related to leveraged leases.
Income relating to leveraged leases is recorded initially as unearned income, which is included in the line item finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets, and is subsequently recognized as revenue over the terms
of the respective leases at constant after-tax rates of return on the positive net investment balances. The remainder of PMCC s net revenues consists primarily of amounts related to direct finance leases, with income initially recorded as
unearned and subsequently recognized as revenue over the terms of the respective leases at constant pre-tax rates of return on the net investment balances. As discussed in Note 9.  Finance Assets, net  to the consolidated financial statements
( Note 9 ), certain PMCC lessees were affected by bankruptcy filings, credit rating downgrades and financial market conditions.      PMCC s investment in leases is included in the line item finance assets, net, on the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. At December 31, 2009, PMCC s net finance receivables of approximately
$4.8 billion

in leveraged leases, which is included in finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheet, consists of rentals receivable ($14.4 billion) and the residual value of
assets under lease ($1.4 billion), reduced by third-party nonrecourse debt ($9.2 billion) and unearned income ($1.8 billion). The payment of the nonrecourse debt is collateralized by lease payments due under the lease and the leased property, and is
nonrecourse to the general assets of PMCC. As required by U.S. GAAP, the third-party nonrecourse debt has been offset against the related rentals receivable and has been presented on a net basis within finance assets, net, on Altria Group,
Inc. s consolidated balance sheets. Finance assets, net, at December 31, 2009, also included net finance receivables for direct finance leases ($0.3 billion) and an allowance for losses ($0.3 billion).      Estimated residual values represent PMCC s estimate at lease inception as to the fair value of assets under lease at the end of the lease term.
The estimated residual values are reviewed annually by PMCC s management, which includes analysis of a number of factors, including activity in the relevant industry. If necessary, revisions to reduce the residual values are recorded. Such
reviews resulted in no adjustments in 2009 and 2008. A decrease of $11 million to PMCC s net revenues and results of operations was recorded in 2007. To the extent that lease receivables due to PMCC may be uncollectible, PMCC records an
allowance for losses against its finance assets. During 2009, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $15 million. In addition, as discussed in Note 9, during 2009 PMCC wrote off $53 million against its allowance for losses primarily related to
Motors Liquidation Company, formerly known as General Motors Corporation ( GM ). During 2008, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $100 million primarily as a result of credit rating downgrades of certain lessees and financial market
conditions. During 2007, PMCC recorded a pre-tax gain of $214 million on the sale of its ownership interests and bankruptcy claims in certain leveraged lease investments in aircraft, which represented a partial recovery, in cash, of amounts that had
been previously written down. PMCC continues to monitor economic and credit conditions, and the individual situations of its lessees, and may have to increase its allowance for losses if such conditions worsen.   

85    

Table of Contents  

Consolidated Operating Results        See pages 104   106 for a discussion of Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results.       
    As discussed further in Note 17.  Segment Reporting  to
the consolidated financial statements, Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker reviews operating companies income, which is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles, to evaluate
segment performance and allocate resources. Management believes it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze the business performance and trends of the various business segments.   

The following events that occurred during 2009, 2008 and 2007 affected the comparability of
statement of earnings amounts.          
      Acquisitions    In January 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST, the results of which are reflected in the smokeless products and wine segments. In December 2007, Altria
Group, Inc. acquired Middleton, the results of which are reflected in the cigars segment (see Note 3).                  Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs    Pre-tax
asset impairment, exit, implementation and integration costs for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 consisted of the following:       

For further details on asset impairment, exit, implementation and integration
costs, see Note 6.  Asset Impairment ,  Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs  to the consolidated financial statements ( Note 6 ).   

86    

Table of Contents  

Altria Group, Inc. continues to have company-wide cost management programs, which include the largely completed restructuring programs discussed in Note
6. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. achieved $398 million in cost savings for a total cost savings of $1,038 million since January 1, 2007. Altria Group, Inc. expects to achieve approximately $462 million in
additional cost savings by 2011, for total anticipated cost reductions of $1.5 billion versus 2006, as shown in the table below.       

Altria Group, Inc. expects to generate an estimated $300 million in UST integration cost savings by
2011. These integration cost savings are included in the  General corporate expense and selling, general and administrative  line item above.      PM USA s manufacturing optimization program, as discussed in Note 6, is expected to entail capital expenditures of approximately $210 million. Capital expenditures for the program of $86 million were made
during the year ended December 31, 2009, for a total of $207 million since the inception of the program in 2007.      Altria Group,
Inc. had a severance liability balance of $228 million at December 31, 2009 related to its restructuring programs, which is expected to be substantially paid out over the next two years.                  UST Acquisition-Related Costs    In connection with the acquisition of UST, Altria Group, Inc. incurred pre-tax charges consisting of the following:            
    Transaction costs of $60 million, incurred in the first quarter of 2009, which consisted primarily of investment banking and legal fees. These amounts are included in marketing, administration and research costs on Altria Group,
Inc. s consolidated statement of earnings.               Increased cost of sales during the year ended December 31, 2009 of $36 million ($15 million and $21 million to the smokeless products
and wine segments, respectively), relating to the fair value purchase accounting adjustment of UST s inventory at the acquisition date that was sold during 2009.               Structuring and arrangement fees of $91 million
and $58 million, during 2009 and 2008, respectively, for borrowing facilities related to the acquisition of UST. These amounts are included in interest and other debt expense, net on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings.
           
      SABMiller Special Items    Altria Group, Inc. s earnings from its equity investment in SABMiller for year ended December 31, 2009 included gains on the issuance of 60 million shares of common
stock by SABMiller in connection with its acquisition of the remaining noncontrolling interest in its Polish subsidiary, partially offset by intangible

asset impairment charges and costs for SABMiller s  business capability programme.  Altria Group, Inc. s earnings from its equity investment in SABMiller for the year ended
December 31, 2008 included intangible asset impairment charges.                  Sales to PMI    Subsequent to the PMI spin-off, PM USA recorded net revenues of $298 million, from contract volume
manufactured for PMI under an agreement that terminated in the fourth quarter of 2008. For periods prior to the PMI spin-off, PM USA did not record contract volume manufactured for PMI in net revenues, but recorded the related profit, which was
immaterial, for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, in marketing, administration and research costs on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings. These amounts are reflected in the cigarettes segment.                  PMCC Allowance for Losses    During 2009, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $15 million based on management s assessment of its portfolio, including its exposure to GM. During 2008,
PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $100 million, primarily as a result of credit rating downgrades of certain lessees and financial market conditions.                  Recoveries from Airline Industry Exposure    As
discussed in Note 9, during 2007, PMCC recorded pre-tax gains of $214 million on the sale of its ownership interests and bankruptcy claims in certain leveraged lease investments in aircraft, which represented a partial recovery, in cash, of amounts
that had been previously written down.                  Gain on Sale of Corporate Headquarters Building    In March 2008, Altria Group, Inc. sold its corporate headquarters building in New York City for $525 million and recorded
a pre-tax gain on sale of $404 million.                  Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt    In connection with the spin-off of PMI in the first quarter of 2008, Altria Group, Inc. recorded a pre-tax loss of $393 million, on
the early extinguishment of debt. See Note 11.  Long-Term Debt  to the consolidated financial statements ( Note 11 ).                  Income Tax Benefit    The effective tax rate in 2009 of 34.2%
included tax benefits of $88 million from the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest resulting from the

87    

Table of Contents  

execution of the closing agreement with the IRS discussed in Note 16. The benefit from the execution of the closing agreement with the IRS was offset by a reduction in a corresponding receivable
from Kraft, included in marketing, administration and research costs on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statement of earnings. As a result, there was no impact on Altria Group, Inc. s net earnings. The effective tax rate in 2009 also
included a benefit of $53 million from the utilization of net operating losses. The effective tax rate in 2008 included net tax benefits of $58 million primarily from the reversal of tax accruals no longer required. The effective tax rate in 2007
included net tax benefits of $168 million related to the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest resulting from the expiration of statutes of limitations, and the reversal of tax accruals no longer required.                  Discontinued Operations    As a result of the PMI and Kraft spin-offs, which are more fully discussed in Note 1, Altria Group, Inc. has reclassified and reflected the results of PMI and Kraft prior
to their respective distribution dates as discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of earnings and the consolidated statements of cash flows.        2009 compared with 2008        The following discussion compares consolidated operating results for the year ended December 31,
2009, with the year ended December 31, 2008.      Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $4,200
million (21.7%), due primarily to higher revenues from the cigarettes, cigars and financial services segments, and the acquisition of UST in 2009. Cigarettes and cigars revenues increased, reflecting higher pricing related primarily to the
April 1, 2009 federal excise tax ( FET ) increase on tobacco products, partially offset by lower volume. In addition, 2008 net revenues included contract volume manufactured for PMI under an agreement that terminated in the fourth
quarter of 2008.      Excise taxes on products increased $3,333 million (98.1%), due primarily to the impact of the FET increase and the
acquisition of UST, partially offset by lower volume in the cigarettes segment.      Cost of sales decreased $280 million (3.4%), due
primarily to lower cigarettes volume and the termination of contract volume manufactured for PMI, partially offset by the acquisition of UST and higher direct material and manufacturing costs.      Marketing, administration and research costs increased $178 million (6.5%), due primarily to the acquisition of UST (including transaction and
integration costs) and the reduction of a Kraft receivable as discussed in Note 16, partially offset by lower marketing, administration and research costs in the cigarettes segment, a lower increase to the allowance for losses in the financial
services segment and lower general corporate expenses. The lower marketing, administration and research costs in the cigarettes segment and lower general corporate expenses reflect the cost reduction initiatives discussed above.   

Operating income increased $580 million (11.9%), due primarily to higher operating results from the
cigarettes, financial services and cigars segments, the acquisition of UST in 2009, lower corporate asset impairment and exit costs, and lower general corporate expenses, partially offset by the gain in 2008 on the sale of the corporate headquarters
building, UST acquisition-related transaction costs and the reduction of a Kraft receivable.      Interest and other debt expense, net,
increased $1,018 million (100+%), due primarily to the issuance of senior unsecured long-term notes in November and December 2008, and February 2009 to finance the UST acquisition.      Earnings from Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller increased $133 million (28.5%), due primarily to gains resulting from the
issuances of common stock by SABMiller and higher ongoing equity earnings, partially offset by higher intangible asset impairment charges and costs for the previously mentioned  business capability programme  in 2009.      Altria Group, Inc. s effective income tax rate decreased 1.3 percentage points to 34.2%, due primarily to the reversal of tax reserves and
associated interest resulting from the execution of the closing agreement with the IRS discussed in Note 16 and the utilization of net operating losses.      Earnings from continuing operations of $3,208 million increased $118 million (3.8%), due primarily to higher operating income, a loss in 2008 on the early extinguishment of debt in connection with the PMI spin-off,
higher earnings from Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller and lower income taxes, partially offset by higher interest and other debt expense, net. Diluted and basic EPS from continuing operations of $1.54 and $1.55, respectively,
increased by 4.1% and 4.0%, respectively.      Earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes decreased $1,901 million,
reflecting the spin-off of PMI in the first quarter of 2008.      Net earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. of $3,206 million
decreased $1,724 million (35.0%). Diluted and basic EPS from net earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. of $1.54 and $1.55, respectively, decreased by 34.7% and 34.6%, respectively. These decreases reflect the spin-off of PMI in the first
quarter of 2008.        2008 compared with 2007        The following discussion compares consolidated operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008, with the year ended December 31, 2007.      Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $692 million (3.7%) due primarily to the acquisition of Middleton ($367 million), revenues from contract volume manufactured for PMI
($298 million) and higher revenues from the financial services segment.      Excise taxes on products decreased $53 million (1.5%) due
primarily to the impact of lower volume in the cigarettes segment, partially offset by the acquisition of Middleton.   

88    

Table of Contents  

Cost of sales increased $443 million (5.7%), due primarily to higher ongoing resolution costs, the
acquisition of Middleton, higher implementation costs (primarily accelerated depreciation) related to the closure of the Cabarrus manufacturing facility, higher leaf costs, contract volume manufactured for PMI and costs related to the reduction of
volume produced for PMI, partially offset by lower volume.      Marketing, administration and research costs decreased $31 million (1.1%),
due primarily to lower corporate, and general and administrative costs, mostly offset by the acquisition of Middleton, higher promotional costs and an increase in the allowance for losses in the financial services segment. The lower corporate, and
general and administrative costs reflect the cost reduction initiatives discussed above.      Operating income increased $509 million
(11.6%), due primarily to the gain on the sale of the corporate headquarters building, lower general corporate expenses, the acquisition of Middleton and higher operating results from the cigarettes segment, partially offset by lower financial
services income due to cash recoveries in 2007 from assets that had previously been written down and an increase to the allowance for losses in 2008.      Interest and other debt expense, net, of $167 million decreased $38 million (18.5%), due primarily to lower average debt levels throughout most of 2008, partially offset by lower interest income and structuring and
arrangement fees on borrowing facilities related to the acquisition of UST.      Earnings from Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment
in SABMiller decreased $43 million (8.4%), due primarily to intangible asset impairment charges in 2008.      Altria Group, Inc. s
effective tax rate increased 2.4 percentage points to 35.5%. The 2008 effective tax rate included net tax benefits of $58 million primarily from the reversal of tax accruals no longer required. The effective tax rate in 2007 included net tax
benefits of $168 million related to the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest resulting from the expiration of statutes of limitations, and the reversal of tax accruals no longer required.      Earnings from continuing operations of $3,090 million decreased $41 million (1.3%), due primarily to the 2008 loss on early extinguishment of debt
and a higher effective income tax rate, partially offset by higher operating income. Diluted and basic EPS from continuing operations of $1.48 and $1.49, respectively, remained unchanged.      Earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (which represents the results of PMI and Kraft prior to the spin-offs), decreased $5,105
million (72.9%), due to the spin-offs of PMI in the first quarter of 2008 and Kraft in the first quarter of 2007.      Net earnings
attributable to Altria Group, Inc. of $4,930 million decreased $4,856 million (49.6%). Diluted and basic EPS from net earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. of $2.36 and $2.37, respectively, each decreased by 48.9%. These decreases reflect the
spin-offs of PMI and Kraft.         

Operating Results by Business Segment         Tobacco Space         Business Environment        Taxes, Legislation, Regulation and Other Matters Regarding Tobacco and Tobacco Use       The United States tobacco
industry faces a number of challenges that may adversely affect the business and sales volume of our tobacco subsidiaries and our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial position. These challenges, which are discussed below and
in  Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results,  include:                pending and threatened litigation and bonding requirements as discussed in Note 22, and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  to Altria
Group, Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K;                competitive disadvantages related to cigarette price increases attributable to the settlement of certain litigation;            
     actual and proposed excise tax increases as well as changes in tax structures and tax stamping requirements;                restrictions imposed by the FSPTCA enacted in June 2009, and
restrictions that may be imposed by the FDA under this legislation and other actual and proposed restrictions affecting tobacco product manufacturing, design, packaging, marketing, advertising and sales;            
    the sale of counterfeit tobacco products by third parties;                the sale of tobacco products by third parties over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid the collection of
applicable taxes;                diversion into one market of products intended for sale in another;                price gaps and changes in price gaps between premium and lowest price brands;
               the potential assertion of claims and other issues relating to contraband shipments of tobacco products;                governmental investigations;            
    governmental and private bans and restrictions on tobacco use;                governmental restrictions on the sale of tobacco products by certain retail establishments, the use of characterizing
flavors and the sale of tobacco products in certain packing sizes;                the diminishing prevalence of cigarette smoking and increased efforts by tobacco control advocates to further restrict tobacco use;
               governmental requirements setting ignition propensity standards for cigarettes;                potential adverse changes in tobacco leaf price, availability and
quality; and   

89    

Table of Contents  

other actual and proposed tobacco product legislation and regulation.      In the ordinary course of business, our tobacco subsidiaries are subject to many influences that can impact the timing of sales to customers,
including the timing of holidays and other annual or special events, the timing of promotions, customer incentive programs and customer inventory programs, as well as the actual or speculated timing of pricing actions and tax-driven price increases.
       Excise Taxes :  Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States. Significant increases
in tobacco-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted at the federal, state and local levels within the United States.      Federal, state and local excise taxes have increased substantially over the past decade, far outpacing the rate of inflation. For example, in 2009,
the FET on cigarettes increased from 39 cents per pack to approximately $1.01 per pack. Between the end of 1998 and the end of 2009, the weighted year-end average state and certain local cigarette excise taxes increased from $0.36 to $1.26 per pack.
No additional state excise tax increases have taken effect in 2010.      Tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact
on sales of tobacco products by our tobacco subsidiaries, due to lower consumption levels and to a potential shift in consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or
to counterfeit and contraband products.      A majority of states currently tax moist smokeless tobacco products using an  ad valorem 
method, which is calculated as a percentage of the price of the product, typically the wholesale price. This  ad valorem  method results in more tax being paid on premium products than is paid on lower-priced products of equal weight. Altria
Group, Inc. s subsidiaries support legislation to convert  ad valorem  taxes on moist smokeless tobacco to a weight-based methodology because, unlike the  ad valorem  tax, a weight-based tax results in cans of equal weight paying the
same tax. As of February 19, 2010, eighteen states and Washington, D.C. have adopted a weight-based tax methodology for moist smokeless tobacco.        FDA Regulation  : The FSPTCA provides the FDA with broad authority to regulate the design, manufacture, packaging, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of cigarettes, cigarette tobacco and
smokeless tobacco products and disclosures of related information. The law also grants the FDA authority to extend its application, by regulation, to other tobacco products, including cigars. Among other measures, this law:            
    provides the FDA with authority to regulate nicotine yields and to reduce or eliminate harmful smoke constituents or harmful ingredients or other components of tobacco products;            
    bans descriptors such as  light,   mild  or  low  or similar descriptors unless expressly authorized by the FDA;         

requires extensive ingredient disclosure to the FDA and may require more limited public ingredient disclosure;            
    requires FDA authorization of any express or implied claims that a tobacco product is or may be less harmful than other tobacco products;                authorizes regulations for imposing
manufacturing standards for tobacco products and provides the FDA authority to inspect tobacco product manufacturing and other facilities;                establishes a framework for prior FDA authorization before the
introduction of certain new or modified tobacco products;                provides the FDA the authority to impose tobacco product standards that are appropriate for the protection of the public health through a
regulatory process including, among other possibilities, restrictions on ingredients, constituents or other properties, performance or design criteria as well as testing, measurement, reporting and disclosure requirements;            
    imposes new restrictions on the sale and distribution of tobacco products;                changes the language of the current cigarette and smokeless tobacco product health
warnings, enlarges their size, requires the development by the FDA of graphic warnings for cigarette packages, and grants the FDA authority to require new warnings; and                prohibits cigarettes with characterizing
flavors other than menthol and tobacco, and requires an FDA tobacco product scientific advisory committee to issue a report and recommendation on the issue of the impact of the use of menthol in cigarettes on the public health.      None of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco operating companies currently manufactures any products prohibited by the FSPTCA s ban on cigarettes
with a characterizing flavor other than menthol or tobacco. The FDA may in the future promulgate regulations that would ban, restrict or otherwise regulate flavored tobacco products, including menthol cigarettes, in a manner that could affect
products manufactured by one or more of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco operating companies.      The FSPTCA imposes on manufacturers
reporting obligations relating to knowledge of suspected contraband activity and also grants the FDA the authority to impose certain other recordkeeping and reporting obligations to address counterfeit and contraband tobacco products.      The law imposes fees on tobacco product manufacturers and importers to pay for the cost of regulation and other matters. The cost of the FDA user fee
is allocated first among tobacco product categories subject to FDA regulation according to a formula set out in the legislation, and then among manufacturers within each respective class based on their relative market share. The
impact of the user fee on Altria Group, Inc. is discussed in  Debt and Liquidity . In addition, compliance with the law s regulatory requirements will result

90    

Table of Contents  

in additional costs for our tobacco businesses. The amount of those additional compliance and related costs is unknown and depends substantially on the nature of the requirements imposed by the
FDA under the new statute. Those compliance and other related costs, however, could be substantial.      The FSPTCA imposes significant new
restrictions on the advertising and promotion of tobacco products. For example, subject to further amendment by the FDA and constitutional or other legal challenge, the statute requires the re-promulgation by the FDA of certain advertising and
promotion restrictions that were previously adopted by the FDA in 1996 (the  1996 Rule ) (these previous restrictions were never imposed on tobacco product manufacturers due to a United States Supreme Court ruling). These 1996 regulations
extended significantly beyond the restrictions agreed upon by participating manufacturers in connection with the state settlement agreements discussed below. The FDA has not yet promulgated the 1996 Rule.      The implementation of the FSPTCA will take place over time. Some provisions took effect when the President signed the bill into law. Others, however,
will not take effect for some time. Several areas require the FDA to take action through rulemaking, which generally involves consideration of public comment and, for some issues, scientific review. Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries are
participating actively in processes established by the FDA to develop its regulatory framework.      Since enactment, several lawsuits
have been filed challenging various provisions of the FSPTCA, including its constitutionality and the scope of FDA s authority thereunder. Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries and affiliates are not parties to any of these
lawsuits. On January 5, 2010, the district court in one such challenge struck down as unconstitutional the ban contained in the pending 1996 Rule on color and graphics in labels and advertising and the FSPTCA s ban on claims implying
that a tobacco product is safer because of FDA regulation. One or more parties may appeal. It is not possible to predict the outcome of any such litigation or its effect on the extent of the FDA s authority to regulate tobacco products.
     Regulations imposed by the FDA could adversely impact the business and sales volume of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco businesses in
a number of different ways. For example, FDA s regulatory actions could impact the consumer acceptability of tobacco products, delay or prevent the launch of new or modified tobacco products, limit consumer choices, restrict communications to
adult consumers, create a competitive advantage or disadvantage for certain tobacco companies, impose additional manufacturing requirements, or otherwise significantly increase the cost of doing business.      FDA regulation, including the failure to comply with FDA regulatory requirements, even by inadvertence, could have a material adverse effect on the
business, financial condition and results of operation of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.        The World Health
Organization s ( WHO s ) Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (the  FCTC )  : The FCTC entered into force in February 2005. As of February 19, 2010, 168 countries, as well as the European
Community,

have become parties to the FCTC. While the United States is a signatory of the FCTC, it is not currently a party to the agreement, as the agreement has not been submitted to, or ratified by, the
United States Senate. The FCTC is the first international public health treaty and its objective is to establish a global agenda for tobacco regulation with the purpose of reducing initiation of tobacco use and encouraging cessation. The treaty
recommends (and in certain instances, requires) signatory nations to enact legislation that would, among other things:                establish specific actions to prevent youth tobacco product use;            
    restrict or eliminate all tobacco product advertising, marketing, promotion and sponsorship;                initiate public education campaigns to inform the public about the health consequences
of tobacco consumption and exposure to tobacco smoke and the benefits of quitting;                implement regulations imposing product testing, disclosure and performance standards;            
    impose health warning requirements on packaging;                adopt measures that would eliminate tobacco product smuggling and counterfeit tobacco products;            
    restrict smoking in public places;                implement fiscal policies (tax and price increases);                adopt and implement measures that ensure that
descriptive terms do not create the false impression that one brand of tobacco product is safer than another;                phase out duty-free tobacco product sales;            
    encourage litigation against tobacco product manufacturers; and                adopt and implement guidelines for testing and measuring the contents and emissions of tobacco products.      In addition, there are a number of proposals currently under consideration by the governing body of the FCTC, some of which call for substantial
restrictions on the manufacture and marketing of tobacco products. It is not possible to predict the outcome of these proposals or the impact of any FCTC actions on legislation or regulation in the United States, either directly as a result of the
United States becoming a party to the FCTC, or whether or how these actions might indirectly influence FDA regulation and enforcement.        State and Local Laws Addressing Certain Characterizing Flavors  : In a number of states and localities, legislation has been enacted or proposed that prohibits or would prohibit the sale of certain tobacco products with
certain characterizing flavors. The legislation varies in terms of the type of tobacco products subject to prohibition, the conditions under which the sale of such products is or would be prohibited, and exceptions to the prohibitions. To
date, the following jurisdictions have enacted such legislation:       Maine  has enacted legislation that prohibits the sale of
certain flavored cigar and cigarette products. As implemented,

91    

Table of Contents  

this prohibition does not ban any PM USA, USSTC, or Middleton product presently being sold. Legislation has been proposed in 2010 that would modify the state s ban on flavored tobacco
products in a manner that could affect certain Middleton cigar products.       New Jersey  has enacted legislation banning the sale
and marketing of cigarettes with a characterizing flavor other than menthol, mint or clove. This legislation does not ban any PM USA, USSTC or Middleton product.       New York City  has adopted an ordinance that prohibits the sale of certain flavored tobacco products other than cigarettes. This legislation, which is scheduled to take effect on February 25, 2010, could
affect certain USSTC and Middleton products. Certain subsidiaries of USSTC have filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging the New York City legislation on several grounds, including federal preemption by the FSPTCA. This litigation is pending. In
a letter to the court dated February 10, 2010, the City stated that it intends not to enforce the ordinance during the pendency of its rulemaking process, which is in progress and will not be complete until at least the beginning of April.
     Whether other states or localities will enact legislation in this area, and the precise nature of such legislation if
enacted, cannot be predicted. See  FDA Regulation  above for a summary of the FSPTCA s regulation of certain tobacco products with characterizing flavors.        Tar and Nicotine Test Methods and Brand Descriptors  : A number of public health organizations have determined that the Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ) standardized methods for measuring
tar and nicotine yields in cigarettes do not provide useful information about tar and nicotine deliveries and that such results were misleading to smokers. In the 2001 publication of Monograph 13, the United States National Cancer Institute
( NCI ) concluded that measurements based on the FTC standardized method  do not offer smokers meaningful information on the amount of tar and nicotine they will receive from a cigarette  or  on the relative amounts of tar
and nicotine exposure likely to be received from smoking different brands of cigarettes.  In response, the FTC stated that it would work with the NCI to determine what changes should be made to its testing method to  correct the
limitations  identified in Monograph 13. In 2002, PM USA petitioned the FTC to promulgate new rules governing the use of existing standardized machine-based methodologies for measuring tar and nicotine yields and descriptors.      More recently, in 2008, the FTC issued a notice rescinding its 1966 guidance that set forth the FTC s former position that it is generally not a
violation of the Federal Trade Commission Act to make factual statements of the tar and nicotine yields of cigarettes when statements of such yields are supported by the FTC s standardized measurement methods. In May 2009, the United States
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit largely affirmed the judgment of a federal trial court in favor of the United States government in its lawsuit against various cigarette manufacturers and others, including PM USA and Altria
Group, Inc., including that portion of the judgment that enjoined the defendants from using brand descriptors such as  lights,   ultra lights  and  low 

(except to the extent such injunction applied extraterritorially). See Note 22, and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  to Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K.      As noted above, the FSPTCA bans  light,   mild  or  low  or similar descriptors (unless expressly authorized by the
FDA) and gives FDA authority over the testing, reporting and disclosure to the public of smoke components such as tar and nicotine. In December 2009, the FTC denied PM USA s 2002 petition citing the new authority of the FDA under the FSPTCA and
the May 2009 decision discussed above.        Tobacco Quota Buy-Out  : In October 2004, FETRA was signed into law. FETRA
eliminated the federal tobacco quota and price support program through an industry-funded buy-out of tobacco growers and quota holders. The cost of the buy-out is approximately $9.5 billion and is being paid over 10 years by manufacturers and
importers of each kind of tobacco product. The cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The quota buy-out payments will offset already scheduled payments to the
National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust (the  NTGST ), a trust fund established in 1999 by the major domestic tobacco product manufacturers to provide aid to tobacco growers and quota holders. For a discussion of the impact of FETRA
payments on Altria Group, Inc., see  Debt and Liquidity.  For a discussion of the NTGST, see Note 22, and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings    to Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K .  Manufacturers and importers of tobacco
products were also obligated to cover any losses (up to $500 million) that the government incurred on the disposition of the tobacco pool stock accumulated under the previous tobacco price support program, which disposition is complete. PM USA,
Middleton and USSTC are subject to the requirements of FETRA. We do not anticipate that the quota buy-out will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results in 2010 and beyond.        Health Effects of Tobacco Consumption and Exposure to Environmental Tobacco Smoke ( ETS )  : It is the policy of Altria
Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries to defer to the judgment of public health authorities as to the content of warnings in advertisements and on product packaging regarding the health effects of tobacco consumption, addiction and exposure to
ETS. Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries believe that the public should be guided by the messages of the United States Surgeon General and public health authorities worldwide in making decisions concerning the use of tobacco products.
     Reports with respect to the health effects of smoking have been publicized for many years, including in a June 2006 United States
Surgeon General report on ETS entitled  The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke.  Many jurisdictions within the United States have restricted smoking in public places. The pace and scope of public smoking bans have
increased significantly. Some public health groups have called for, and various jurisdictions have adopted or proposed, bans on smoking in outdoor places, in private apartments and in cars with minors in them. It is not possible to predict the
results of ongoing scientific research or the types of future scientific research into the health risks of tobacco exposure.   

92    

Table of Contents  

Reduced Cigarette Ignition Propensity Legislation  : Legislation or regulation requiring cigarettes to meet reduced ignition propensity
standards (first adopted by New York State in 2004) has been adopted in all states except Wyoming. PM USA has converted all cigarette production to cigarettes meeting reduced ignition propensity standards.      PM USA continues to support the enactment of federal legislation mandating a uniform and technically feasible national standard for reduced ignition
propensity cigarettes that would preempt state standards that are different from the federal standard.        Illicit
Trade :  Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries support appropriate regulations and enforcement measures to prevent illicit trade in tobacco products. For example, Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries are engaged in a
number of initiatives to help prevent trade in contraband tobacco products, including: enforcement of wholesale and retail trade programs and policies on trade in contraband tobacco products; engagement with and support of law enforcement and
regulatory agencies; litigation to protect their trademarks; and support for a variety of federal and state legislative initiatives. Legislative initiatives to address trade in contraband tobacco products are designed to protect the legitimate
channels of distribution, impose more stringent penalties for the violation of illegal trade laws and provide additional tools for law enforcement. Regulatory measures and related governmental actions to prevent the illicit manufacture and trade of
tobacco products are being considered by a number of jurisdictions. For example, one bill that the United States House of Representatives passed in 2009 would address illegal Internet sales by, among other things, imposing a series of restrictions
and requirements on the delivery and sale of such products and would make such products non-mailable to consumers through the United States Postal Service.        State Settlement Agreements  : As discussed in Note 22, and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  to Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K, during 1997 and 1998, PM USA and other major domestic
tobacco product manufacturers entered into agreements with states and various United States jurisdictions settling asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims (collectively, the  State Settlement Agreements ). These
settlements require participating manufacturers to make substantial annual payments. For a discussion of the impact of these payments on Altria Group, Inc., see  Debt and Liquidity . The settlements also place numerous restrictions on
participating manufacturers  business operations, including prohibitions and restrictions on the advertising and marketing of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products. Among these are prohibitions of outdoor and transit brand advertising,
payments for product placement, and free sampling (except in adult-only facilities). Restrictions are also placed on the use of brand name sponsorships and brand name non-tobacco products. The State Settlement Agreements also place prohibitions on
targeting youth and the use of cartoon characters. In addition, the State Settlement Agreements require companies to affirm corporate principles directed at reducing underage use of cigarettes; impose requirements regarding lobbying activities;
mandate public disclosure of certain industry

documents; limit the industry s ability to challenge certain tobacco control and underage use laws; and provide for the dissolution of certain tobacco-related organizations and place
restrictions on the establishment of any replacement organizations.      In November 1998, USSTC entered into the Smokeless Tobacco
Master Settlement Agreement (the  STMSA ) with the attorneys general of various states and United States territories to resolve the remaining health care cost reimbursement cases initiated against USSTC. The STMSA required USSTC
to adopt various marketing and advertising restrictions and make certain payments over a minimum of ten years for programs to reduce youth consumption of tobacco and combat youth substance abuse and for enforcement purposes. USSTC is the only
smokeless tobacco manufacturer to sign the STMSA.       Other Legislation or Governmental Initiatives  : In addition to the
actions discussed above, other regulatory initiatives affecting the tobacco industry have been adopted or are being considered at the federal level and in a number of state and local jurisdictions. For example, in recent years, legislation has been
introduced or enacted at the state or local level to subject tobacco products to various reporting requirements and performance standards; establish educational campaigns relating to tobacco consumption or tobacco control programs, or provide
additional funding for governmental tobacco control activities; restrict the sale of tobacco products in certain retail establishments and the sale of tobacco products in certain packing sizes; require tax stamping of moist smokeless tobacco
products; require the use of state tax stamps using data encryption technology; and further restrict the sale, marketing and advertising of cigarettes and other tobacco products.      It is not possible to predict what, if any, additional legislation, regulation or other governmental action will be enacted or implemented relating
to the manufacturing, design, packaging, marketing, advertising, sale or use of tobacco products, or the tobacco industry generally. It is possible, however, that legislation, regulation or other governmental action could be enacted or implemented
in the United States that might materially adversely affect the business and volume of our tobacco subsidiaries and our consolidated results of operations and cash flows.        Governmental Investigations  : From time to time, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations
on a range of matters. Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries cannot predict whether new investigations may be commenced.        Tobacco Price, Availability and Quality  : Shifts in crops driven by economic conditions and adverse weather patterns, government mandated prices and production control programs may increase or decrease the cost or
reduce the quality of tobacco and other agricultural products used to manufacture our products. As with other agriculture commodities, the price of tobacco leaf can be influenced by economic conditions and imbalances in supply and
demand and crop quality and availability can be influenced by variations in weather patterns. Tobacco production in certain countries is subject to a variety of controls, including governmental mandated prices

93    

Table of Contents  

and production control programs. Changes in the patterns of demand for agricultural products and the cost of tobacco production could cause tobacco leaf prices to increase and could
result in farmers growing less tobacco. Any significant change in tobacco leaf prices, quality or availability could affect our tobacco subsidiaries  profitability and business.      Operating Results       
      2009 compared with 2008        The following discussion compares tobacco space operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009 with the year ended December 31, 2008.       Cigarettes segment.  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $2,166 million (11.6%), reflecting higher pricing
related primarily to the FET increase ($5,241 million), partially offset by lower volume ($3,061 million). Net revenues for 2008 included contract volume manufactured for PMI of $298 million.      Operating companies income increased $189 million (3.9%), due primarily to higher list prices ($1,592 million), lower marketing, administration and
research costs ($308 million) and lower promotional allowances ($269 million), partially offset by lower volume ($1,614 million), higher direct material and manufacturing costs ($167 million), higher exit and implementation costs ($88 million)
primarily related to the previously announced closure of its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility, an increase in per unit settlement charges ($60 million) and FDA user fees ($38 million). Lower marketing, administration and research
costs primarily reflect the cost reduction initiatives discussed above.      Marketing, administration and research costs include PM
USA s cost of administering and litigating product liability claims. Litigation defense costs are influenced by a number of factors, including those discussed in Note 22, and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  to Altria Group, Inc. s 2009
Form 10-K .  Principal among these factors are the number and types of cases filed, the number of cases tried annually, the results of trials and appeals, the development of the law controlling relevant legal issues, and litigation strategy and
tactics. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, product liability defense costs were $220 million, $179 million and $200 million, respectively. The factors that have influenced past product liability defense costs are expected to
continue to influence future costs. PM USA does not expect future product liability defense costs to be significantly different from past defense costs.   

For 2009, PM USA s domestic cigarette shipment volume of 148.7 billion units was 12.2% lower
than 2008, but was estimated to be down about 10.5% when adjusted for changes in trade inventories and calendar differences. Total cigarette industry volume was down an estimated 8% when adjusted for trade inventory changes and calendar differences.
The difference in PM USA s volume decline rate versus the total cigarette industry is due primarily to volume lost during the period of FET-related price gap dislocation, share losses on its portfolio brands, as well as higher trade inventory
declines on PM USA s brands. PM USA estimates that trade inventories for its cigarettes declined by 17% from the beginning to the end of the year. In the first quarter of 2009, the trade significantly reduced cigarette inventories in
anticipation of the April 1, 2009 FET increase. In the second quarter of 2009, the trade rebuilt their inventories, but reduced them again in the second half of the year as they adjusted to lower cigarette category volume and the higher costs
associated with maintaining cigarette inventories. This decline disproportionately impacted PM USA s high volume brands. In the premium segment, PM USA s shipment volume decreased 11.8%.  Marlboro  shipment volume decreased 15.0
billion units (10.6%) to 126.5 billion units. In the discount segment, PM USA s shipment volume decreased 17.4%.  Basic  shipment volume decreased 2.9 billion units (23.9%) to 9.2 billion units.      The following table summarizes 2009 and 2008 cigarettes segment volume performance by brand, which includes units sold, as well as promotional units,
but excludes Puerto Rico, U.S. Territories, Overseas Military, Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and 2008 contract manufacturing for PMI (terminated in the fourth quarter of 2008):       
     Marlboro  s retail share for 2009 declined 0.1
share point versus 2008, driven primarily by higher levels of competitive promotional spending.  Marlboro  focused on maximizing its profitability by moderately spending targeted promotional money in response to heightened competitive spending,
and grew its margins in 2009 versus 2008. PM USA also profitably reset the retail share positions of the balance of its brand portfolio, which held a relatively stable combined retail share in the second half of 2009 at a higher profit level than
prior to the FET increase.      Effective in the first quarter of 2009, cigarettes segment retail share results are based on data from the
Information Resources, Inc. ( IRI )/Capstone Integrated Retail Panel, which is a customized retail tracking service that uses a

94    

Table of Contents  

sample of stores to project market share performance in retail stores selling cigarettes. The panel was not designed to capture sales through other channels, including the Internet and direct
mail. This service was developed to provide a comprehensive measure of market share in retail outlets selling cigarettes similar to the previous service. Market share data for 2008 in the table below have been restated to reflect this service.
     The following table summarizes cigarettes segment retail share performance based on this retail tracking service:       
    During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007
PM USA executed the following pricing and promotional allowance actions:               Effective October 28, 2009, PM USA increased the list price on  Marlboro ,  Basic  and  L M  by $0.06 per pack. In
addition, PM USA increased the list price on all of its other brands by $0.08 per pack.               Effective March 9, 2009, PM USA increased the list price on  Marlboro, Parliament, Virginia Slims ,  Basic 
and  L M  by $0.71 per pack. In addition, PM USA increased the list price on all of its other premium brands by $0.81 per pack.               Effective February 9, 2009, PM USA increased the list price on
 Marlboro, Parliament, Virginia Slims, Basic  and  L M  by $0.09 per pack. In addition, PM USA increased the list price on all of its other premium brands by $0.18 per pack.            
   Effective December 29, 2008, PM USA increased its wholesale promotional allowance on  L M  by $0.29 per pack, from $0.26 to $0.55.               Effective December 15, 2008, PM USA
reduced its wholesale promotional allowances on  Marlboro  and  Basic  by $0.05 per pack, from $0.26 to $0.21, and raised the price on its other brands, except for  L M,  by $0.05 per pack.            
   Effective May 5, 2008, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowances on  Marlboro ,  Basic  and  L M  by $0.09 per pack, from $0.35 to $0.26, and eliminated the $0.20 per pack wholesale promotional
allowances on  Parliament . In addition, PM USA increased the list price on its other brands by $0.09 per pack.               Effective January 7, 2008, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowances on
 Parliament  by $0.15 per

pack from $0.35 to $0.20, and eliminated the $0.20 per pack wholesale promotional allowances on  Virginia Slims .            
   Effective September 10, 2007, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowances on  Marlboro ,  Parliament  and  Basic  by $0.05 per pack, from $0.40 to $0.35, and  Virginia Slims  by $0.20 per pack,
from $0.40 to $0.20. In addition, PM USA raised the list price on its other brands by $0.05 per pack effective September 10, 2007 and by $0.20 per pack effective February 12, 2007.       Smokeless products segment.  Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST and its smokeless tobacco business, USSTC, on January 6, 2009. As a result,
USSTC s financial results from January 6 through December 31, 2009 are included in Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 consolidated and segment results. In addition, the smokeless products segment includes PM USA s smokeless products.
     Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, were $1,366 million. Operating companies income was $381 million.
Results were negatively impacted by costs related primarily to the acquisition of UST. These costs primarily consisted of employee separation costs ($166 million), asset impairments ($27 million), integration costs ($43 million) and inventory
adjustments ($15 million), as well as costs associated with PM USA s smokeless products, and actions taken to enhance the value equation on USSTC s moist smokeless tobacco ( MST ) brands. In March 2009, USSTC announced a national
wholesale incentive program that lowered the list price of some of USSTC s brands, including  Copenhagen  and  Skoal , by $0.62 per can, effective March 29, 2009.      The smokeless products segment domestic shipment volume for the period January 6 through December 31, 2009 was 634.7 million units
(measured in cans and packs). Including the volume of 10.9 million cans shipped from January 1 through January 5, 2009, which was prior to the acquisition of UST, total volume for the full year ended December 31, 2009 was
645.6 million units (measured in cans and packs). The smokeless products segment domestic shipment volume for 2009 (full year results) declined 2.4% versus 2008, due primarily to changes in trade inventories. USSTC believes disproportionate
trade inventory declines on its products were due to a number of factors, including the discontinuation of multi-can promotional deals and its  Rooster  brand, and the change in the shipping unit from ten to five can rolls. These volume
declines were partially offset by the introduction of  Copenhagen  Long Cut Wintergreen in November 2009.      After adjusting for
trade inventory changes, pipeline volume for the expansion of  Marlboro  snus and the discontinuation of USSTC s  Rooster  brand, the smokeless products segment shipment volume for 2009 was estimated to be up approximately 1%. USSTC
believes that the overall smokeless category s volume grew at an estimated rate of approximately 7% in 2009.   

95    

Table of Contents  

The following table summarizes smokeless products segment volume performance by brand (full year
results), which includes cans and packs sold, as well as promotional units, but excludes international volume. Other includes  Marlboro  snus, a PM USA spit-less tobacco product. One pack of snus is equivalent to a can of MST. Volume from 2008
represents only domestic volume shipped by USSTC prior to the UST acquisition:       
    In the fourth quarter of 2009, USSTC and PM USA s
combined retail share of smokeless products increased 0.9 share points versus the third quarter of 2009.  Copenhagen  s retail share grew 1.5 share points versus the third quarter of 2009 as the brand benefited from the introduction of
 Copenhagen  Long Cut Wintergreen.  Skoal  s retail share declined 0.2 share points versus the third quarter of 2009.      The following table summarizes the smokeless products segment sequential retail share performance (full quarterly results, excluding international volume), based on data from IRI, InfoScan Smokeless Tobacco Database for Food, Drug, Mass
Merchandisers (excluding Wal-Mart) and Convenience trade classes, which tracks smokeless products market share performance. Smokeless products are defined as MST and spit-less tobacco products. One pack of snus or other spit-less tobacco product is
equivalent to a can of MST for share measurement purposes. It is IRI s standard practice to periodically refresh their InfoScan syndicated services, and therefore prior period retail share results have been restated.       
     Cigars segment.  Net revenues, which include excise
taxes billed to customers, increased $133 million (34.4%), reflecting higher pricing related primarily to the FET increase ($148 million), partially offset by lower volume ($15 million).      Operating companies income increased $12 million (7.3%), due primarily to higher pricing ($45 million) and lower integration costs ($9 million),
partially offset by higher manufacturing costs primarily related to new products ($22 million), lower volume ($12 million) and higher marketing, administration and research costs ($8 million).   

For 2009, Middleton s cigar shipment volume declined 3.6% versus 2008, due primarily to
declines in trade inventories. Middleton believes that trade inventory declines on its products were due partially to the movement to the more efficient Altria Sales   Distribution system, which significantly reduced wholesale delivery lead
times. After adjusting for changes in trade inventories, Middleton s shipment volume was estimated to be up slightly for 2009. Middleton believes that the machine-made large cigars category s growth slowed after the FET increase, resulting
in a category that slightly declined. Middleton defines machine-made large cigars as cigars made by machine that weigh greater than three pounds per thousand, except cigars sold at retail in packages of 20 cigars.      The following table summarizes cigars segment volume performance:       
    Middleton achieved strong retail share results for 2009
behind the strength of its leading brand,  Black   Mild . Middleton achieved a 30.5% retail share of the machine-made large cigars segment for 2009, up 1.2 share points versus 2008.  Black   Mild  s retail share
increased 1.3 share points in 2009 versus 2008 to 29.9% of the machine-made large cigar segment.      Effective with the first quarter of
2009, cigar retail share results are based on data from IRI, InfoScan Cigar Database for Food, Drug, Mass Merchandisers (excluding Wal-Mart) and Convenience trade classes, which tracks machine-made large cigars market share performance using
Middleton s definition of machine-made large cigars. This service was developed to provide a representation of retail business performance in key trade channels. Market share data for 2008 in the table below have been restated to reflect this
service. It is IRI s standard practice to periodically refresh their InfoScan syndicated services.      The following table summarizes
cigars segment retail share performance:       
    During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, Middleton executed the
following pricing actions:               Effective March 4, 2009, Middleton executed various list price increases across substantially all of its brands resulting in a
weighted-average increase of approximately $0.40 per five-pack.   

96    

Table of Contents  

Effective February 11, 2009, Middleton increased the list price on all of its brands by approximately $0.20 per five-pack.               Effective January 28, 2009, Middleton
increased the list price on substantially all of its brands by $0.08 per five-pack.               Effective September 02, 2008, Middleton increased the list price on substantially all of its brands by approximately
$0.07 per five-pack.               Effective February 18, 2008, Middleton increased the list price on substantially all of its brands by approximately $0.07 per five-pack.      Subsequent to year end, effective January 11, 2010, Middleton executed various list price increases across substantially all of its brands
resulting in a weighted-average increase of approximately $0.18 per five-pack.        2008 compared with 2007        The following discussion compares tobacco space operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008 with the year ended December 31, 2007.       Cigarettes.  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $283 million (1.5%) due primarily to lower wholesale
promotional allowance rates ($679 million), partially offset by lower volume ($390 million). Net revenues for 2008 included contract volume manufactured for PMI of $298 million.      Operating companies income increased $355 million (7.9%), due primarily to lower wholesale promotional allowance rates, net of higher ongoing
resolution and leaf costs ($532 million), lower pre-tax charges in 2008 for asset impairment, exit and implementation costs related to the announced closing of the Cabarrus, North Carolina cigarette manufacturing facility ($253 million), and lower
general and administrative expenses ($168 million, which includes a $26 million provision for the  Scott  case in Louisiana in 2007), partially offset by lower volume ($359 million), higher promotional costs ($101 million), costs related to the
reduction of volume produced for PMI ($100 million), and exit costs related to the company-wide integration and restructuring program ($48 million). Lower general and administrative expenses primarily reflect the cost reduction initiatives discussed
above.      PM USA s shipment volume was 169.4 billion units, a decrease of 3.2% or 5.7 billion units, and was estimated to be down
approximately 4% when adjusted for changes in trade inventories and calendar differences. In the premium segment, PM USA s shipment volume decreased 3.0%.  Marlboro  shipment volume decreased 2.9 billion units (2.0%) to 141.5 billion
units. In the discount segment, PM USA s shipment volume decreased 6.5%, with  Basic  shipment volume down 8.5% to 12.1 billion units.      The following table summarizes cigarettes segment volume performance by brand, which includes units sold, as well as promotional units, but excludes Puerto Rico, U.S. Territories, Overseas Military, Philip Morris
Duty Free Inc. and

contract manufacturing for PMI (terminated in the fourth quarter of 2008), for 2008 and 2007:       
    The following table summarizes cigarettes segment retail
share performance, based on data from the IRI/Capstone Total Retail Panel, which was a tracking service that used a sample of stores to project market share performance in retail stores selling cigarettes. This panel was not designed to capture
sales through other channels, including Internet and direct mail:       
    * Due to the commencement date of the new cigarettes tracking service discussed
above, the 2007 share data was not restated. For comparative purposes, the 2008 share data presented in this table is reported on the same basis as the 2007 share data.       Cigars.  In December 2007, Altria Group, Inc. acquired Middleton. Earnings from December 12, 2007 to December 31, 2007, the amounts of which were insignificant, were included in Altria Group,
Inc. s consolidated operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2008, net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, were $387 million. Operating companies income was $164 million, which includes a pre-tax charge of
$18 million for integration costs.      For 2008, cigars shipment volume increased 6.2% versus 2007 to 1,307 million units, driven by
Middleton s leading brand  Black   Mild . The following table summarizes cigars segment volume performance:       
    Middleton achieved a retail share of 29.1% of the
machine-made large cigar segment in 2008 which represents an increase of 2.5 share points versus the prior-year period, driven by  Black   Mild . Retail share for  Black   Mild  increased 2.8 share points versus the
prior-year to 28.3% of

97    

Table of Contents  

the machine-made large cigar segment. Retail share performance is based on the 52-week periods ending December 21, 2008 and December 23, 2007 from the IRI Cigar Database for Food, Drug,
Mass Merchandise (excluding Wal-Mart) and Convenience trade classes, which tracks cigar market share performance.      The following table
summarizes cigars segment retail share performance:       
    * Due to the commencement date of the new cigar tracking service discussed
above, the 2007 share data was not restated. For comparative purposes, the 2008 share data presented in this table is reported on the same basis as the 2007 share data.        Wine segment         Business Environment       Ste. Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarily  Chateau Ste. Michelle  and  Columbia Crest , and owns wineries in or distributes wines from several other wine regions. As
discussed in Note 22, and Item 3. Legal Proceedings to Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K, Ste. Michelle holds an 85% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori, LLC, which owns  Stag s Leap Wine Cellars  in Napa Valley. Ste. Michelle
also owns  Conn Creek  in Napa Valley and  Erath  in Oregon. In addition, Ste. Michelle distributes Antinori and Villa Maria Estate wines and  Champagne Nicolas Feuillatte  in the United States. A key element of Ste. Michelle s
strategy is expanded domestic distribution of its wines, especially in certain account categories such as restaurants, wholesale clubs, supermarkets, wine shops and mass merchandisers.      Ste. Michelle s business is subject to significant competition, including competition from many larger, well-established domestic and
international companies, as well as from many smaller wine producers. Wine segment competition is primarily based on quality, price, consumer and trade wine tastings, competitive wine judging, third-party acclaim and advertising.      Federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various means, including licensing requirements,
pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies. Further regulatory restrictions or additional excise or other taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages may have an adverse effect on Ste.
Michelle s wine business.       Operating Results       Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST and its premium wine business, Ste. Michelle, on January 6, 2009. As a result, Ste. Michelle s financial results from January 6 through December 31, 2009 are included in Altria Group,
Inc. s con
- -  

solidated and segment results for the year ended December 31, 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2009, net revenues for the wine segment were $403 million. Operating companies income
was $43 million, which included pre-tax charges of $30 million related to the UST acquisition, consisting of inventory adjustments, exit and integration costs.      For the year ended December 31, 2009, Ste. Michelle s wine shipment volume of 6.0 million cases was 2.1% lower than 2008. This decrease was due primarily to wholesale inventory reductions, and lower
on-premise channel volume that includes restaurants and bars. In addition, Ste. Michelle s wine shipment volume was negatively impacted by the suspension of shipments during the first week of January 2009 to take inventory prior to the closing
of the UST acquisition, and wholesalers built inventories in the last few weeks of 2008 in advance of this suspension.      The following
table summarizes wine segment case shipment volume performance by brand. Volume from 2008 represents volume shipped by Ste. Michelle prior to the UST acquisition:       
    In 2009, Ste. Michelle s retail volume, as measured by Nielsen Total Wine
Database   U.S. Food   Drug (Nielsen), increased 10% versus 2008. The total wine industry s retail volume for 2009, as measured by Nielsen, increased 2% versus 2008.        Financial services segment         Business Environment       In 2003, PMCC ceased making new investments and began focusing exclusively on managing its existing portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize gains and generate
cash flow from asset sales and related activities. Accordingly, PMCC s operating companies income will fluctuate over time      as investments mature or
are sold. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, proceeds from asset sales and bankruptcy recoveries totaled $793 million, $403 million and $486 million, respectively, and gains included in operating companies income totaled $257 million, $87 million and $274
million, respectively.      Included in the proceeds for 2007 were partial recoveries of amounts previously charged to earnings in the
allowance for losses related to PMCC s airline exposure. The operating companies income associated with these recoveries, which is included in the gains shown above, was $214 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.   

98    

Table of Contents  

The activity in the allowance for losses on finance assets for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was as follows:       
    PMCC leases under several lease arrangements various types of
automotive manufacturing equipment to GM, which filed for bankruptcy on June 1, 2009. Since GM s bankruptcy filing, PMCC has not recorded income on the GM leases. In the third quarter of 2009, GM rejected one of the leases, which resulted
in a $49 million write-off against PMCC s allowance for losses. The remaining GM leases, which expire from 2012 through 2023, represent approximately 3% of PMCC s portfolio of finance assets at December 31, 2009.      On October 30, 2009 General Motors LLC ( New GM ), which is the successor of GM s North American automobile business, signed
several agreements with PMCC. Pursuant to these agreements, New GM has agreed to lease substantially all the remaining equipment under the same terms as GM, except for a rebate of a portion of future rents. The agreements will become effective upon
court approval of the assignment of the leases to New GM, which PMCC anticipates will occur in the first quarter 2010. GM will reject one additional lease that will not be assigned to New GM. The impact of the rent rebates and the additional lease
rejection have been factored into PMCC s assessment of the allowance for losses at December 31, 2009. Foreclosure of rejected lease properties will result in an acceleration of deferred tax payments on such leases.      All other PMCC lessees are current on their lease payment obligations. PMCC continues to monitor economic and credit conditions, and the individual
situations of its lessees, and may have to increase its allowance for losses if such conditions worsen.      During 2009, PMCC increased its
allowance for losses by $15 million based on management s assessment of its portfolio, including its exposure to GM. During 2008, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $100 million primarily as a result of credit rating downgrades of
certain lessees and financial market conditions.      The net impact to the allowance for losses for 2007 related primarily to various
airline leases. Amounts recovered of $129 million in 2007 related to partial recoveries of amounts charged to earnings in the allowance for losses in prior years. In addition in 2007, PMCC recovered $85 million related to amounts previously charged
to earnings and written-off in prior years. In total, these recoveries resulted in additional operating companies income of $214 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Acceleration of taxes on

the foreclosures of leveraged leases written off amounted to approximately $50 million in 2007. There were no foreclosures in 2009 and 2008.      PMCC s portfolio remains diversified by lessee, investment category and asset type. As of December 31, 2009, 74% of PMCC s lessees were
investment grade as defined by Moody s Investors Service, Inc. ( Moody s ) and Standard   Poor s Ratings Services ( Standard   Poor s ). Excluding aircraft lease investments, 87% of
PMCC s lessees were investment grade.      At December 31, 2009 PMCC s portfolio included five aircraft under leveraged leases
with Mesa Airlines, Inc. ( Mesa ) with a finance asset balance of $21 million. PMCC s interest in these leases was secured by letters of credit issued by Citicorp North America, Inc. On January 5, 2010, Mesa filed for Chapter 11
bankruptcy protection. As a result of the bankruptcy filing PMCC drew on the letters of credit and recovered its outstanding investment.      PMCC has one remaining transaction with indirect exposure to Ambac Assurance Corporation, a credit support provider whose credit rating remains below investment grade. This risk is mitigated by the underlying strength of the lessee and the
quality of the leased asset.      See Note 22, and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  to Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K   for a
discussion of the IRS disallowance of certain benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions.      Operating Results       
    PMCC s net revenues for 2009 increased $132 million
(61.1%) from 2008, due primarily to higher gains on asset sales, partially offset by lower lease revenues as a result of lower investment balances. PMCC s operating companies income for 2009 increased $199 million (100+%) from 2008,
due primarily to higher gains on asset sales and a lower increase to the allowance for losses, partially offset by lower lease revenues.      PMCC s net revenues for 2008 increased $37 million (20.7%) from 2007, due primarily to higher gains on asset sales. PMCC s operating companies income for 2008 decreased $309 million (81.3%) from 2007, due primarily to
2007 cash recoveries of $214 million on aircraft leases which had been previously written down, as well as an increase in 2008 to the allowance for losses of $100 million related to credit rating downgrades of certain lessees and financial market
conditions.   

99    

Table of Contents  

Financial Review         Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities, Continuing Operations       During 2009, net cash provided by operating
activities on a continuing operations basis was $3.4 billion, compared with $3.2 billion during 2008. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was due primarily to lower income taxes paid during 2009.      During 2008, net cash provided by operating activities on a continuing operations basis was $3.2 billion, compared with $4.6 billion during 2007. The
decrease in cash provided by operating activities was due primarily to the return of the escrow bond for the  Engle  tobacco case in 2007 and higher settlement charge payments in 2008, partially offset by payments for the reimbursement of
Kraft s federal income tax contingencies in 2007.       Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities, Continuing Operations       Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries from time to time consider acquisitions as evidenced by the acquisitions of UST in January 2009 and Middleton in December 2007.
For further discussion, see Note 3.      During 2009, net cash used in investing activities on a continuing operations basis was $9.8
billion, compared with net cash provided of $796 million during 2008. This change was due primarily to the acquisition of UST in January 2009 and proceeds from the sale of Altria Group, Inc. s corporate headquarters building in New York City
during 2008, partially offset by higher proceeds from finance asset sales in 2009.      During 2008, net cash provided by investing
activities on a continuing operations basis was $796 million, compared with net cash used of $2.7 billion during 2007. This change was due primarily to the acquisition of Middleton in December 2007, proceeds from the sale of Altria Group,
Inc. s corporate headquarters building in New York City during 2008 and lower capital expenditures in 2008.      Capital expenditures
for 2009 increased 13.3% to $273 million. The expenditures were primarily for modernization and consolidation of manufacturing facilities and expansion of certain production capacity. Capital expenditures for 2010 are expected to be under $250
million, and are expected to be funded from operating cash flows.       Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities, Continuing Operations 
     During 2009, net cash provided by financing activities on a continuing operations basis was $276 million, compared with net cash used of $937 million
during 2008. This change was due primarily to the following:               lower dividends paid on Altria Group, Inc. common stock during 2009 as a result of the PMI spin-off;         

cash used in 2008 to repurchase common stock under the share repurchase program which was suspended indefinitely in September 2009;
              debt tender offers during the first quarter of 2008 which resulted in the repayment of debt, as well as the payment of tender and consent fees; and            
   a payment of $449 million to PMI during 2008 as a result of the spin-off related modifications to Altria Group, Inc. stock awards;      partially offset by:               dividends received from PMI during the first quarter of 2008; and            
   lower issuances of long-term debt during 2009.      During 2008 and 2007, net cash used in financing activities on a
continuing operations basis was $937 million and $148 million, respectively. The increase of $789 million was due primarily to the following:               lower dividends received from PMI during 2008;            
   debt tender offers during the first quarter of 2008 which resulted in the repayment of debt, as well as the payment of tender and consent fees;               cash used in 2008 to repurchase common stock;
              dividends received from Kraft in 2007; and               a payment of $449 million to PMI during 2008 and a receipt of $179 million from Kraft
during 2007 as a result of the spin-off related modifications to Altria Group, Inc. stock awards;      partially offset by:            
   $6.8 billion issuance of long-term notes in 2008, the proceeds of which were used to partially fund the acquisition of UST in January 2009; and               lower dividends paid on Altria Group, Inc.
common stock during 2008 as a result of the Kraft and PMI spin-offs.       Debt and Liquidity        Credit Ratings    At December 31, 2009, the credit ratings and outlook for Altria Group, Inc. s indebtedness by major credit rating agencies were:

Short-term       Debt    
     
     Long-term       Debt    
     
   Outlook    
 
    Moody s   
      
  P-2  
     
  Baa1  
     
  Negative   
 
    Standard   Poor s   
      
  A-2  
     
  BBB  
     
  Stable   
 
    Fitch   
      
  F2  
     
  BBB+  
     
  Stable        Credit Lines    At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, Altria Group, Inc. had no short-term borrowings under its credit lines.   

100    

Table of Contents  

At December 31, 2009, the credit lines for Altria Group, Inc. and related activity were as follows:       
    On November 20, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. entered into a
senior unsecured 364-day revolving credit agreement (the  364-Day Agreement ) and a senior unsecured 3-year revolving credit agreement (the  3-Year Agreement  and, together with the 364-Day Agreement, the  Revolving Credit
Agreements ). The 364-Day Agreement provides for borrowings up to an aggregate principal amount of $0.6 billion and expires on November 19, 2010. The 3-Year Agreement provides for borrowings up to an aggregate principal amount of $2.4
billion and expires on November 20, 2012. Pricing under the Revolving Credit Agreements may be modified in the event of a change in the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt. Interest rates on borrowings under the
Revolving Credit Agreements will be based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) plus a percentage equal to Altria Group, Inc. s credit default swap spread subject to certain minimum rates and maximum rates based on the higher
of the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt from Standard   Poor s and Moody s. The applicable minimum and maximum rates based on Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt
ratings at December 31, 2009 are 2.0% and 4.0%, respectively. The Revolving Credit Agreements do not include any other rating triggers, nor do they contain any provisions that could require the posting of collateral.      The Revolving Credit Agreements replace Altria Group, Inc. s prior $3.4 billion 5-year revolving credit agreement, which was due to expire on
April 15, 2010, but was terminated effective November 20, 2009. The Revolving Credit Agreements will be used for general corporate purposes and to support Altria Group, Inc. s commercial paper issuances. The Revolving Credit
Agreements require that Altria Group, Inc. maintain (i) a ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) of not more than 3.0 to 1 and (ii) a ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of not
less than 4.0 to 1. At December 31, 2009, the ratios of debt to EBITDA and EBITDA to interest expense, calculated in accordance with the Revolving Credit Agreements, were 1.9 to 1.0 and 5.3 to 1.0, respectively. Altria Group, Inc. expects to
continue to meet its covenants associated with the Revolving Credit Agreements.      In connection with the acquisition of UST, Altria
Group, Inc. had in place at December 31, 2008, a 364-day term

bridge loan facility ( Bridge Facility ). On January 6, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. borrowed the entire available amount of $4.3 billion under the Bridge Facility to fund in part the
acquisition of UST (see Note 3). As discussed in Note 11, in February 2009, Altria Group, Inc. issued $4.2 billion of senior unsecured long-term notes. The net proceeds from the issuance of these notes, along with available cash, were used to prepay
all of the outstanding borrowings under the Bridge Facility. Upon such prepayment, the Bridge Facility was terminated.      Any commercial
paper of Altria Group, Inc. and borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreements are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by PM USA as further discussed in Note 23.  Condensed Consolidating Financial Information  to the consolidated financial
statements ( Note 23 ).       Financial Market Environment    Despite volatile financial market conditions, Altria
Group, Inc. believes it has adequate liquidity and access to financial resources to meet its anticipated obligations in the foreseeable future. Altria Group, Inc. continues to monitor the credit quality of its bank group and is not aware of any
potential non-performing credit provider in that group. Altria Group, Inc. believes the lenders in its bank group will be willing and able to advance funds in accordance with their legal obligations.       Debt    Altria Group, Inc. s total consumer products debt was $12.0 billion and $7.0 billion at December 31, 2009 and
December 31, 2008, respectively. As discussed in Note 11, the increase in total consumer products debt relates to the February 2009 issuance of $4.2 billion of long-term notes, and the recording of UST s debt, partially offset by
repayments. Financial services debt of $500 million at December 31, 2008 matured and was repaid in July 2009. All consumer products debt was fixed-rate debt at December 31, 2009. Approximately 98% of total consumer products debt was
fixed-rate debt at December 31, 2008. The weighted average interest rate on total consumer products debt was approximately 9.0% at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. For further details on long-term debt, see Note 11.       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations       Altria Group, Inc. has no off-balance sheet arrangements, including special purpose entities, other than guarantees and contractual obligations that are discussed below.       Guarantees and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest    As discussed in Note 22,  and Item 3. Legal Proceedings  to Altria Group,
Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K ,  Altria Group, Inc. had guarantees (including third-party guarantees) and a redeemable noncontrolling interest outstanding at December 31, 2009. In addition, as discussed in Note 23, PM USA has issued
guarantees related to Altria Group, Inc. s indebtedness.   

101    

Table of Contents  

Aggregate Contractual Obligations    The following table summarizes Altria Group,
Inc. s contractual obligations at December 31, 2009:       
    (1) Amounts represent the expected cash payments of Altria Group, Inc. s
long-term debt.      (2) Amounts represent the expected cash payments of Altria Group, Inc. s interest expense on its long-term debt, including the
current portion of long-term debt. Interest on Altria Group, Inc. s debt, which is all fixed-rate debt at December 31, 2009, is presented using the stated interest rate. Amounts exclude the amortization of debt discounts, the amortization
of loan fees and fees for lines of credit that would be included in interest expense in the consolidated statements of earnings.      (3) Amounts represent
the minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases.      (4) Purchase obligations for inventory and production costs (such as raw
materials, indirect materials and supplies, packaging, storage and distribution) are commitments for projected needs to be utilized in the normal course of business. Other purchase obligations include commitments for marketing, capital expenditures,
information technology and professional services. Arrangements are considered purchase obligations if a contract specifies all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, a pricing structure and approximate timing of
the transaction. Most arrangements are cancelable without a significant penalty, and with short notice (usually 30 days). Any amounts reflected on the consolidated balance sheet as accounts payable and accrued liabilities are excluded from the table
above.      (5) Other long-term liabilities consist of postretirement health care costs. The following long-term liabilities included on the consolidated
balance sheet are excluded from the table above: accrued pension and postemployment costs, income taxes and tax contingencies, insurance accruals and other accruals. Altria Group, Inc. is unable to estimate the timing of payments (or contributions
in the case of accrued pension costs) for these items. Currently, Altria Group, Inc. anticipates making pension contributions of approximately $20 million to $50 million in 2010, based on current tax law (as discussed in Note 18).      The State Settlement Agreements and related legal fee payments, payments for tobacco growers and FDA user fees, as discussed below and in Note 22,
and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  to   Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K  , are excluded from the table above, as the payments are subject to adjustment for several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume.
Litigation escrow deposits, as discussed below and in Note 22, and Item 3.  Legal Proceed  ings  to   Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K  , are also excluded from the table above since these deposits will be returned to PM
USA should it prevail on appeal.   

Payments Under State Settlement and Other Tobacco Agreements, and FDA Regulation    As
discussed previously and in Note 22, and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  to   Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K  , PM USA has entered into State Settlement Agreements with the states and territories of the United States and also
entered into a trust agreement to provide certain aid to U.S. tobacco growers and quota holders, but PM USA s obligations under this trust have now been eliminated by the obligations imposed on PM USA by FETRA. USSTC and Middleton are also
subject to obligations imposed by FETRA. In addition, in June 2009, PM USA and a subsidiary of USSTC became subject to quarterly user fees imposed by the FDA as a result of the FSPTCA. The State Settlement Agreements, FETRA, and the FDA user fees
call for payments that are based on variable factors, such as volume, market share and inflation, depending on the subject payment. Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries account for the cost of the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user
fees as a component of cost of sales. As a result of the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user fees, Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries recorded charges to cost of sales for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 of $5.0
billion, $5.5 billion and $5.5 billion, respectively.      Based on current agreements, 2009 market share and the five-year compounded
annual industry volume decline rate for 2003-2008 (2009 industry volume decline rate is excluded due to the one time volume impacts of the federal excise tax increase), the estimated amounts that Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries may charge to
cost of sales for these payments will be approximately as follows:       
    The estimated amounts due
under the State Settlement Agreements and FETRA charged to cost of sales in each of the years above would generally be paid in the following year. The amounts charged to cost of sales for the FDA user fees are paid in the quarter in which the fees
are incurred. As previously stated, the payments due under the terms of the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user fees are subject to adjustment for several factors, including volume, inflation and certain contingent events and, in
general, are allocated based on each manufacturer s market share. The amounts shown in the table above are estimates, and actual amounts will differ as underlying assumptions differ from actual future results. See Note 22, and Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings  to   Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K , for a discussion of proce edings that may result in a downward adjustment of amounts

102    

Table of Contents  

paid under State Settlement Agreements for the years 2003 to 2008.       Litigation
Escrow Deposits    With respect to certain adverse verdicts currently on appeal, as of December 31, 2009, PM USA has posted various forms of security totaling approximately $97 million, the majority of which have been collateralized
with cash deposits, to obtain stays of judgments pending appeals. These cash deposits are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.      As discussed in Note 22, and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  to   Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K  , in December 2007, $1.2 billion of funds held in an interest-bearing escrow account in
connection with obtaining a stay of execution in the  Engle  class action was returned to PM USA. In addition, the $100 million relating to the bonding requirement in the same case has been discharged. Interest income on the $1.2 billion escrow
account, prior to its return to PM USA, was paid to PM USA quarterly and was being recorded as earned in interest and other debt expense, net, in the consolidated statements of earnings.      Although litigation is subject to uncertainty and could result in material adverse consequences for the financial condition, cash flows or results of
operations of PM USA, UST or Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year, management expects cash flow from operations, together with its Revolving Credit Agreements, to provide sufficient liquidity to meet the ongoing needs of
the business.       Equity and Dividends       As discussed
in Note 1, on March 28, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its interest in PMI to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. The PMI distribution resulted in a net decrease to Altria Group, Inc. s total
stockholders  equity of $14.7 billion on March 28, 2008. On March 30, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. The
Kraft distribution resulted in a net decrease to Altria Group, Inc. s total stockholders  equity of $30.5 billion on March 30, 2007.      As discussed in Note 13.  Stock Plans  to the consolidated financial statements, during 2009, Altria Group, Inc. issued 5.7 million shares of restricted and deferred stock to eligible employees.
     At December 31, 2009, the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of outstanding stock options and vesting of deferred stock
was 15.7 million, or 0.8% of shares outstanding.      Dividends paid in 2009 and 2008 were $2.7 billion and $4.4 billion,
respectively, a decrease of 39.2%, primarily reflecting an adjusted dividend rate as a result of the PMI spin-off. Following the PMI spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its dividend so that holders of both Altria Group, Inc. and PMI shares would
receive initially, in the aggregate, the same dividends paid by Altria Group, Inc. prior to the PMI spin-off.      During the third quarter
of 2009, Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors approved a 6.3% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.34 per common share. In January 2010, Altria Group, Inc. changed its dividend payout ratio target from approximately 75% to approximately
80% of adjusted diluted EPS beginning with its next declared dividend. Con
- -  

sistent with this payout ratio target change, on February 24, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors approved a 2.9% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.35 per common share. The
present annualized dividend rate is $1.40 per Altria Group, Inc. common share. Future dividend payments remain subject to the discretion of Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors.      In September 2009, Altria Group, Inc. suspended indefinitely its $4.0 billion (2008 to 2010) share repurchase program in order to preserve financial
flexibility and focus on interest expense reduction. Altria Group, Inc. s share repurchase program is at the discretion of the Board of Directors. During 2008, Altria Group, Inc. repurchased 53.5 million shares of its common stock at an
aggregate cost of approximately $1.2 billion, or an average price of $21.81 per share. No shares were repurchased during 2009 under this share repurchase program.       Market Risk       As discussed in Note 20.  Financial Instruments  to the consolidated financial statements,
derivative financial instruments are used by Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries principally to reduce exposures to market risks resulting from fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates by creating offsetting exposures. Altria
Group, Inc. is not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness
between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. Altria Group, Inc. formally documents the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its
risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Additionally, for hedges of forecasted transactions, the significant characteristics and expected terms of the
forecasted transaction must be specifically identified, and it must be probable that each forecasted transaction will occur. If it were deemed probable that the forecasted transaction will not occur, the gain or loss would be recognized in earnings
currently. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, ineffectiveness related to fair value hedges and cash flow hedges was not material. At December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. had no derivative financial instruments.
      Interest Rate Sensitive Financial Instruments    At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the fair value of Altria Group,
Inc. s total debt was $14.4 billion and $8.6 billion, respectively. The fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s debt is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in market interest rates. A 1% increase in market interest rates at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, would decrease the fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s total debt by approximately $0.9 billion and $0.5 billion, respectively. A 1% decrease in market interest rates at December 31, 2009 and 2008, would
increase the fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s total debt by approximately $1.0 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively.      Interest
rates on borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreements will be based on the LIBOR plus a percentage equal to Altria Group, Inc. s credit default swap spread subject   

103    

Table of Contents  

to certain minimum rates and maximum rates based on the higher of the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt from Standard   Poor s and Moody s. The
applicable minimum and maximum rates based on Altria Group, Inc. s current long-term senior unsecured debt ratings at December 31, 2009 are 2.0% and 4.0%, respectively. At December 31, 2009 Altria Group, Inc. had no
borrowings under its Revolving Credit Agreements.       Contingencies       See Note 22, and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  to Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K for a discussion of contingencies.       Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results        Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements    
  We   *    may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in filings with the SEC, in reports to security holders and in press releases and investor webcasts. You can identify these
forward-looking statements by use of words such as  strategy,   expects,   continues,   plans,   anticipates,   believes,   will,   estimates,   intends, 
 projects,   goals,   targets  and other words of similar meaning. You can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.      We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions.
Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from
those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested in Altria Group, Inc. s securities. In connection with the  safe
harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in any
forward-looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. We elaborate on these and other risks we face throughout this document, particularly in the  Business Environment 
sections preceding our discussion of operating results of our subsidiaries  businesses. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete
discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time.       Tobacco-Related Litigation . Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various       

*     
          This section uses the terms  we,   our  and  us  when it is not necessary to distinguish among Altria Group, Inc. and its various operating subsidiaries or when any distinction is clear from the context.

United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries including PM USA and UST, as well as their respective indemnitees. Various types of claims are raised in
these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband shipments, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors and distributors.      Litigation is subject to uncertainty and it is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending cases. An unfavorable outcome or settlement
of pending tobacco related litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation. Damages claimed in some tobacco-related litigation are significant and, in certain cases, range in the billions of dollars. The variability in
pleadings, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome.      Although PM USA has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to
collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases. This risk has been substantially reduced given that 43 states now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no
bond at all.      Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have achieved substantial success in managing litigation. Nevertheless, litigation
is subject to uncertainty and significant challenges remain. It is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a
particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. Altria Group, Inc. and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the
respective cases, that it has valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts. Each of the companies has defended, and will continue to defend, vigorously against litigation challenges.
However, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of Altria Group, Inc. to do so. See Note 22, and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  and Exhibit
99.1 to Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K for a discussion of pending tobacco-related litigation.       Tobacco Regulation and
Control Action in the Public and Private Sectors . Our tobacco subsidiaries face significant governmental action, including efforts aimed at reducing the incidence of tobacco use, restricting marketing and advertising, imposing regulations on
packaging, warnings and disclosure of flavors or other ingredients, prohibiting the sale of tobacco products with certain characterizing flavors or other characteristics, limiting or prohibiting the sale of tobacco products by certain retail
establishments and the sale of tobacco products in certain packing sizes, and seeking to hold them responsible for the adverse health effects associated with both smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke. Governmental actions, combined
with the diminishing social acceptance of smoking and private actions to restrict smoking, have resulted in reduced industry volume, and we

104    

Table of Contents  

expect that these factors will continue to reduce consumption levels.      PM USA,
USSTC and other Altria Group, Inc. subsidiaries are now subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, as discussed further in  Tobacco Space   Business Environment   FDA Regulation . We cannot predict how the FDA might implement and
enforce its statutory authority, including by promulgating additional regulations and pursuing possible enforcement actions, but such implementation and enforcement may impact the consumer acceptability of tobacco products, limit adult consumer
choices, delay or prevent the launch of new or modified tobacco products, restrict communications to adult consumers, create a competitive advantage or disadvantage for certain tobacco companies, impose additional manufacturing requirements, or
otherwise significantly increase the cost of doing business, all or any of which may have a material adverse impact on the results of operations or financial condition of Altria Group, Inc.       Excise Taxes . Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes and significant increases in tobacco product-related taxes or fees have
been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States at the state, federal and local levels. Tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of our tobacco products due to
lower consumption levels and to a potential shift in consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products. For further discussion,
see  Tobacco Space   Business Environment   Excise Taxes .       Increased Competition in the United States Tobacco
Categories . Each of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries operates in highly competitive tobacco categories. Settlements of certain tobacco litigation in the United States have resulted in substantial cigarette price increases. PM USA
faces competition from lowest priced brands sold by certain United States and foreign manufacturers that have cost advantages because they are not parties to these settlements. These manufacturers may fail to comply with related state escrow
legislation or may avoid escrow deposit obligations on the majority of their sales by concentrating on certain states where escrow deposits are not required or are required on fewer than all such manufacturers  cigarettes sold in such states.
Additional competition has resulted from diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the
Internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes, and increased imports of foreign lowest priced brands. USSTC faces significant competition in the smokeless tobacco category, both from existing competitors and new
entrants, and has experienced consumer down-trading to lower-priced brands.       Governmental Investigations . From time to time,
Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters. We cannot predict whether new investigations may be commenced or the outcome of such investigations, and it is possible that our sub
- -  

sidiaries  businesses could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome of future investigations.       New Tobacco Product Technologies . Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries continue to seek ways to develop and to commercialize new tobacco product technologies that may reduce the health risks
associated with current tobacco products, while continuing to offer adult tobacco consumers products that meet their taste expectations. Potential solutions being researched include tobacco products that reduce or eliminate exposure to cigarette
smoke and/or constituents identified by public health authorities as harmful. Our tobacco subsidiaries may not succeed in these efforts. If they do not succeed, but one or more of their competitors does, our subsidiaries may be at a competitive
disadvantage. Further, we cannot predict whether regulators, including the FDA, will permit the marketing of tobacco products with claims of reduced risk to consumers or whether consumers  purchase decisions would be affected by such claims,
which could affect the commercial viability of any tobacco products that might be developed.       Adjacency Strategy . Altria Group,
Inc. and its subsidiaries have adjacency growth strategies involving moves and potential moves into complementary products or processes. We cannot guarantee that these strategies, or any products introduced in connection with these strategies, will
be successful.       Tobacco Price, Availability and Quality . Any significant change in tobacco leaf prices, quality or availability
could affect our tobacco subsidiaries  profitability and business. For a discussion of factors that influence leaf prices, availability and quality, see  Tobacco Space   Business Environment   Tobacco Price, Availability and
Quality .       Key Facilities; Supply Security . Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries face risks inherent in reliance on
a few significant facilities and a small number of significant suppliers. A natural or man-made disaster or other disruption that affects the manufacturing facilities of any of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries or the facilities of any
significant suppliers of any of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries could adversely impact the operations of the affected subsidiaries. An extended interruption in operations experienced by one or more Altria Group,
Inc. subsidiaries or significant suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of Altria Group, Inc.       Attracting and Retaining Talent . Our ability to implement our strategy of attracting and retaining the best talent may be impaired by the decreasing social acceptance of tobacco usage. The tobacco industry
competes for talent with the consumer products industry and other companies that enjoy greater societal acceptance. As a result, our tobacco subsidiaries may be unable to attract and retain the best talent.       Competition and Economic Downturns . Each of our tobacco and wine subsidiaries is subject to intense competition, changes in consumer
preferences and changes in economic conditions. To be successful, they must continue to:               promote brand equity successfully;               anticipate and respond to new and evolving
consumer preferences;   

105    

Table of Contents  

develop new products and markets and to broaden brand portfolios in order to compete effectively with lower-priced products;            
   improve productivity; and               protect or enhance margins through cost savings and price increases.      The willingness of adult consumers to purchase premium consumer product brands depends in part on economic conditions. In periods of economic
uncertainty, adult consumers may purchase more discount brands and/or, in the case of tobacco products, consider lower-priced tobacco products. The volumes of our tobacco and wine subsidiaries could suffer accordingly.      Our finance subsidiary, PMCC, holds investments in finance leases, principally in transportation (including aircraft), power generation and
manufacturing equipment and facilities. Its lessees are also subject to intense competition and economic conditions. If parties to PMCC s leases fail to manage through difficult economic and competitive conditions, PMCC may have to increase its
allowance for losses, which would adversely affect our earnings.       Acquisitions . Altria Group, Inc. from time to time considers
acquisitions. From time to time we may engage in confidential acquisition negotiations that are not publicly announced unless and until those negotiations result in a definitive agreement. Although we seek to maintain or improve our debt ratings
over time, it is possible that completing a given acquisition or other event could impact our debt ratings or the outlook for those ratings. Furthermore, acquisition opportunities are limited, and acquisitions present risks of failing to achieve
efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms, that we will realize any
of the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or that acquisitions will be quickly accretive to earnings.       UST Acquisition .
There can be no assurance that we will achieve the synergies expected of the UST acquisition.       Capital Markets . Access to the
capital markets is important for us to satisfy our liquidity and financing needs. Disruption and uncertainty in the capital markets and any resulting tightening of credit availability, pricing and/or credit terms may negatively affect the amount of
credit available to us and may also increase our costs and adversely affect our earnings or our dividend rate.   

Exchange Rates . For purposes of financial reporting, the equity earnings attributable to
Altria Group, Inc. s investment in SABMiller are translated into U.S. dollars from various local currencies based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar against these
currencies, our reported equity earnings in SABMiller will be reduced because the local currencies will translate into fewer U.S. dollars.       Asset Impairment . We periodically calculate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets to test for impairment. This calculation may be affected by the market conditions noted above, as well as interest rates and general
economic conditions. If an impairment is determined to exist, we will incur impairment losses, which will reduce our earnings. For further discussion, see  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   Depreciation, Amortization and Intangible
Asset Valuation .       IRS Challenges to PMCC Leases . The Internal Revenue Service has challenged the tax treatment of certain of
PMCC s leveraged leases. Should Altria Group, Inc. not prevail in any one or more of these matters, Altria Group, Inc. may have to accelerate the payment of significant amounts of federal income tax, pay associated interest costs and
significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the income from the affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year.
For further discussion see Note 22, and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  to Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 Form 10-K.       Wine
  Competition; Grape Supply; Regulation and Excise Taxes . Ste. Michelle s business is subject to significant competition, including from many large, well-established national and international organizations. The adequacy
of Ste. Michelle s grape supply is influenced by consumer demand for wine in relation to industry-wide production levels as well as by weather and crop conditions, particularly in eastern Washington state. Supply shortages related to any
one or more of these factors could increase production costs and wine prices, which ultimately may have a negative impact on Ste. Michelle s sales. In addition, federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage
industry through various means, including licensing requirements, pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies. New regulations or revisions to existing regulations, resulting in further restrictions or
taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages, may have an adverse effect on Ste. Michelle s wine business. For further discussion, see  Wine Segment   Business Environment .   

106    

Table of Contents  

     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       
 
   To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Altria Group, Inc.:      In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders  equity, and cash flows, present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2009 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, Altria Group, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in  Internal Control - Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Altria Group, Inc. s management is responsible for
these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.   

In fiscal 2009, Altria Group, Inc. changed the manner in which it accounts for business
combinations and noncontrolling interests as discussed in Note 1. In fiscal 2007, Altria Group, Inc. changed the manner in which it accounts for uncertain tax positions as discussed in Note 2.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
       /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP        Richmond, Virginia      January 28, 2010   

107    

Table of Contents  

     Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       

Management of Altria Group, Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Internal control over financial reporting includes those written policies and procedures that:
           
   pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of Altria Group, Inc.;               provide reasonable assurance that transactions
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America;               provide reasonable assurance that receipts and
expenditures of Altria Group, Inc. are being made only in accordance with the authorization of management and directors of Altria Group, Inc.; and               provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.      Internal control
over financial reporting includes the controls themselves, monitoring and internal auditing practices and actions taken to correct deficiencies as identified.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become

inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      Management assessed the effectiveness of Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. Management
based this assessment on criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Management s assessment included an evaluation of the design of Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting and testing of the operational effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting. Management
reviewed the results of its assessment with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.      Based on this assessment, management
determined that, as of December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting.      PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, who audited and reported on the consolidated financial statements of Altria Group, Inc. included in this report, has audited the effectiveness of Altria Group,
Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, as stated in their report herein.      January 28, 2010   

108    

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 8
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF ALTRIA GROUP, INC.

Subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. 

Exhibit 21        ALTRIA GROUP, INC. SUBSIDIARIES       Certain active
subsidiaries of the Company and their subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009, are listed below. The names of certain subsidiaries, which considered in the aggregate would not constitute a significant subsidiary, have been omitted.       

Name    
      
   State or     Country of     Organization    
 
    Altria Client Services Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    Altria Consumer Engagement Services Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Altria Corporate Services International, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Altria Enterprises II LLC   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Altria Enterprises LLC   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Altria Sales   Distribution Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Col Solare, LLP   
      
  Washington   
 
    Cormorant Energy Investment Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dart Resorts Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    F.W. Rickard Seeds, Inc.   
      
  Kentucky   
 
    General Foods Credit Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Foods Credit Investors No. 1 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Foods Credit Investors No. 2 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Foods Credit Investors No. 3 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Grant Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Grant Transit Co.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    HNB Investment Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    International Smokeless Tobacco Company Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    International Wine   Spirits Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    John Middleton Co.   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Management Subsidiary Holdings Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Michelle-Antinori, LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Michigan Investment Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    National Smokeless Tobacco Company Ltd.   
      
  Canada   
 
    One Channel Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Philip Morris Capital Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Philip Morris Duty Free Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Philip Morris USA Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    PMCC Investors No. 1 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PMCC Investors No. 2 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PMCC Investors No. 3 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PMCC Investors No. 4 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PMCC Leasing Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Profigen do Brazil LDTA   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Profigen Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SB Leasing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd.   
      
  Washington   
 
    TMLLC, Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Trademarks LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Trimaran Leasing Investors, L.L.C.-II   
      
  Delaware   
 
    U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Brands Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Manufacturing Company LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    UST LLC   
      
  Delaware    

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of independent registered public accounting firm 

Exhibit 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby
consent to the incorporation by reference in Post-Effective Amendment No. 13 to the Registration Statement of Altria Group, Inc. on Form S-14 (File No. 2-96149) and in Altria Group, Inc. s Registration Statements on Form S-3 (File
Nos. 333-35143 and 333-155009) and Form S-8 (File Nos. 333-28631, 33-10218, 33-13210, 33-14561, 33-40110, 33-48781, 33-59109, 333-43478, 333-43484, 333-128494, 333-139523, 333-148070 and 333-156188), of our report dated January 28, 2010
relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Altria Group, Inc., which appears in the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
( Form 10-K ). We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated January 28, 2010 relating to the financial statement schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.      /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP      Richmond, Virginia
     February 24, 2010   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 10
 dex24.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY

Powers of attorney 

Exhibit 24         POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE
PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, David R. Beran, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any
one or more of them, her true and lawful attorney, for her and in her name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended
December 31, 2009 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be
incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes
as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set her hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2010.        

/ S /    E LIZABETH  E. B AILEY    
 
  Elizabeth E. Bailey    

POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, David R. Beran, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to
execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2009 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said
attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set
his hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2010.        

/ S /    G ERALD  L. B ALILES    
 
  Gerald L. Baliles    

POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, David R. Beran, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to
execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2009 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said
attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set
his hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2010.        

/ S /    J OHN  T. C ASTEEN  III   
 
  John T. Casteen III    

POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, David R. Beran, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to
execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2009 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said
attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set
his hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2010.        

/ S /    T HOMAS  F. F ARRELL  II   
 
  Thomas F. Farrell II    

POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, David R. Beran, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to
execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2009 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said
attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set
his hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2010.        

/ S /    D INYAR  S. D EVITRE    
 
  Dinyar S. Devitre    

POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, David R. Beran, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to
execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2009 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said
attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set
his hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2010.        

/ S /    R OBERT  E. R. H UNTLEY    
 
  Robert E. R. Huntley    

POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, David R. Beran, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to
execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2009 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said
attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set
his hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2010.        

/ S /    T HOMAS  W. J ONES    
 
  Thomas W. Jones    

POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, David R. Beran, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to
execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2009 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said
attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set
his hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2010.        

/ S /    G EORGE  M U OZ    
 
  George Mu oz    

POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, David R. Beran, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to
execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2009 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform
all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said
attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set
his hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2010.        

/ S /    N ABIL  Y. S AKKAB    
 
  Nabil Y. Sakkab    

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 11
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE REGISTRANT'S CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Certification of the Registrant's Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 31.1       Certifications      I, Michael E. Szymanczyk, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Altria Group, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 24, 2010        

/s/ MICHAEL E. SZYMANCZYK    
 
    Michael E. Szymanczyk    
 
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 12
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE REGISTRANT'S CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Certification of the Registrant's Chief Financial Officer 

Exhibit 31.2       Certifications      I, David R. Beran, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Altria Group, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 24, 2010        

/s/ DAVID R. BERAN    
 
    David R. Beran    
 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 13
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE REGISTRANT'S CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Certification of the Registrant's Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
       AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of
Altria Group, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Michael E. Szymanczyk, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of
the Company.       

/s/ MICHAEL E. SZYMANCZYK    
 
    Michael E. Szymanczyk    
 
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    
 
    February 24, 2010         A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the
electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Altria Group, Inc. and will be retained by Altria Group, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request .

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 14
 dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE REGISTRANT'S CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Certification of the Registrant's Chief Financial Officer 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
       AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of
Altria Group, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, David R. Beran, Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of
the Company.       

/s/ DAVID R. BERAN    
 
    David R. Beran    
 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    
 
    February 24, 2010         A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the
electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Altria Group, Inc. and will be retained by Altria Group, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request .

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.1>
 15
 dex991.htm
 CERTAIN LITIGATION MATTERS AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

Certain Litigation Matters and Recent Developments 

Exhibit 99.1       CERTAIN LITIGATION MATTERS AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS      As described in
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  of this Form 10-K and Note 22.  Contingencies  ( Note 22 ) to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements, there are legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters pending or
threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc., its subsidiaries, including Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), and their respective indemnitees. Various types of claims are raised in these
proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband shipments, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors and distributors. Pending claims related to tobacco
products generally fall within the following categories: (i) smoking and health cases alleging personal injury brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs, (ii) smoking and health cases primarily alleging personal injury or seeking
court-supervised programs for ongoing medical monitoring and purporting to be brought on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs, including cases in which the aggregated claims of a number of individual plaintiffs are to be tried in a single
proceeding, (iii) health care cost recovery cases brought by governmental (both domestic and foreign) and non-governmental plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking and/or disgorgement
of profits, (iv) class action suits alleging that the uses of the terms  Lights  and  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud or RICO violations, (v) international cases, and
(vi) other tobacco-related litigation.      The following lists certain of the pending claims against Altria Group, Inc., PM USA and/or UST
LLC ( UST ) and/or UST s subsidiaries included in these categories. Certain developments in these cases since October 26, 2009 are also described.      SMOKING AND HEALTH LITIGATION      The following lists the consolidated individual smoking and health
cases as well as smoking and health class actions pending against PM USA and, in some cases, Altria Group, Inc. and/or its other subsidiaries and affiliates, as of February 19, 2010, and describes certain developments in these cases since
October 26, 2009. See  International Cases  below for a reference to one individual smoking and health action pending in Israel and four smoking and health class actions pending in Canada.       Consolidated Individual Smoking and Health Cases        In re: Tobacco Litigation (Individual Personal Injury cases), Circuit Court, Ohio County, West Virginia, consolidated January 11, 2000.  In West Virginia, all smoking and health cases in state court alleging personal injury have
been transferred to the State s Mass Litigation Panel. The transferred cases include individual cases and putative class actions. All individual cases filed in or transferred to the court by September 13, 2000 were consolidated for
pretrial proceedings and trial. John Middleton Co. and U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company were named as defendants in this action but they, along with other non-cigarette manufacturers, have been severed from this case. Currently pending are 711 civil
actions (of which 405 are actions against PM USA). In December 2005, the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals ruled that the United States Constitution does not preclude a trial in two phases in this case. Issues related to defendants 
conduct, plaintiffs  entitlement to punitive damages and a punitive damages multiplier, if any, would be determined in the first phase. The second phase would consist of individual trials to determine liability, if any, and compensatory
damages. In May 2007, the trial court denied defendants  motion to vacate the trial court s trial plan based on the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Williams v. Philip Morris . In November 2007, the West Virginia
Supreme Court of Appeals denied defendants  renewed motion for review of the trial plan. In December 2007, defendants filed a petition for  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court, which was denied in February 2008. The
first phase of the trial is now scheduled for June 1, 2010.       Flight Attendant Litigation       The settlement agreement entered into in 1997 in the case of  Broin, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al. , which was brought by flight
attendants seeking damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by environmental tobacco smoke, allows members of the  Broin  class to file individual lawsuits seeking compensatory damages, but prohibits them from seeking punitive damages. In
October 2000, the trial court ruled that the flight attendants will
        
   1   

not be required to prove the substantive liability elements of their claims for negligence, strict liability and breach of implied warranty in order to recover damages, if any, other than
establishing that the plaintiffs  alleged injuries were caused by their exposure to environmental tobacco smoke and, if so, the amount of compensatory damages to be awarded. Defendants  initial appeal of this ruling was dismissed as
premature. Defendants appealed the October 2000 rulings in connection with their appeal of the adverse jury verdict in the  French  case. In December 2004, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal affirmed the judgment awarding plaintiff in
the  French  case ( Lorillard Tobacco Co. v. French ) $500,000, and directed the trial court to hold defendants jointly and severally liable. Defendants  motion for rehearing was denied in April 2005. In December 2005, after
exhausting all appeals, PM USA paid $328,759 (including interest of $78,259) as its share of the judgment amount and interest in  French  and, in August 2007, PM USA paid $229,293.11 (including interest of $7,380.48) representing its share of
attorneys  fees. PM USA, in March 2008, paid additional attorneys  fees of $4,700. In May 2009, after appellate proceedings, PM USA paid $157,065.51, representing its share of interest on the attorneys  fees, thereby concluding
 French . In November 2007, a jury found in favor of the defendants in a case brought by a flight attendant. As of February 19, 2010, 2,595 cases were pending in the Circuit Court of Dade County, Florida against PM USA and three other
cigarette manufacturers.       Domestic Class Actions        Engle, et al. v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al., Circuit Court, Eleventh Judicial Circuit, Dade County, Florida, filed May 5, 1994.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a
discussion of this case and the  Engle  progeny litigation.       Scott, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, et al., Civil District
Court, Orleans Parish, Louisiana, filed May 24, 1996.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Young, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, et al., Civil District Court, Orleans Parish, Louisiana, filed November 12, 1997.        Parsons, et al. v. A C   S, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Kanawha County, West Virginia, filed February 27, 1998.        Cypret, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, et al., Circuit Court, Jackson County, Missouri, filed December 22, 1998.        Simms, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., United States District Court, District of Columbia, filed May 23, 2001 . In May 2004, plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration of the court s 2003 ruling that denied
their motion for class certification. In September 2004, plaintiffs renewed their motion for reconsideration. This motion was denied by the court in December 2006.       Caronia, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., United States District Court, Eastern District, New York, filed January 13, 2006.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this
case.       Donovan, et al. v. Philip Morris, United States District Court, District of Massachusetts, filed March 2, 2007.  See
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.          Peoples, et al. v. Reynolds America, Inc. et al., United
States District Court, Northern District, Georgia, filed November 17, 2009.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.          Jackson, et al. v. U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, et al., Northern District, Georgia, filed May 1, 2009.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.
     HEALTH CARE COST RECOVERY LITIGATION      The following lists the health care cost recovery actions pending against PM USA and, in some cases, Altria Group, Inc. and/or its other subsidiaries and affiliates as of February 19, 2010 and describes certain developments in these
cases since October 26, 2009. See  International Cases  below for a list of international health care cost recovery actions.      As
discussed in Item 3.  Legal Proceedings , in 1998, PM USA and certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers entered into a Master Settlement Agreement (the  MSA ) settling the health care cost recovery claims of 46
states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa and the Northern Marianas. Settlement agreements settling similar claims had previously been entered into with the states of
Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota. PM USA believes that some or all of the claims in certain of the health care cost recovery actions listed below are released in whole or in part by the MSA, or that recovery in any such actions should be
subject to the offset provisions of the MSA.         
   2   

City of St. Louis Case        City of St. Louis, et al. v. American Tobacco, et al., Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri, filed November 23, 1998 . In November 2001, the court granted in part and denied in part
defendants  motion to dismiss and dismissed three of plaintiffs  eleven claims. In June 2005, the court granted in part defendants  motion for summary judgment limiting plaintiffs  claims for past compensatory damages to those
that accrued after November 16, 1993, five years prior to the filing of the suit. In June 2009, the court denied two of defendants  motions for summary judgment. The trial is scheduled to begin no earlier than January 2011. See
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for further discussion of this case.       Department of Justice Case        The United States of America v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., United States District Court, District of Columbia, filed September 22, 1999 .
See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Medicare Secondary Payer Act Case        National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, et al. v. Philip Morris USA, et al., United States District Court, Eastern District, New
York, filed May 20, 2008.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       LIGHTS/ULTRA LIGHTS 
CASES      The following lists the  Lights/Ultra Lights  cases pending against Altria Group, Inc. and/or its various subsidiaries and
others as of February 19, 2010, and describes certain developments since October 26, 2009. See  International Cases  below for a reference to one  Lights  action pending in Israel.       Cleary, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., United States District Court, Northern District, Illinois, filed June 3, 1998.  See
Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Aspinall, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc. and Philip Morris
Incorporated, Superior Court, Suffolk County, Massachusetts, filed November 24, 1998 . In October 2001, the court granted plaintiffs  motion for class certification, and defendants appealed. In May 2003, the single Justice sitting on
behalf of the Massachusetts Court of Appeals decertified the class. In August 2004, Massachusetts  highest court affirmed the trial court s ruling and reinstated the class certification order. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for
further discussion of this case.       Marrone v. Philip Morris Companies, Inc., et al., Court of Common Pleas, Medina County, Ohio, filed
November 8, 1999.  On August 10, 2009, the plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed this case. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for additional reference to this case.       Price, et al v. Philip Morris Inc., Circuit Court, Third Judicial Circuit, Madison County, Illinois, filed February 10, 2000.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this
case.         Craft, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al., Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri, filed February 15,
2000 . In December 2003, the trial court granted plaintiffs  motion for class certification. In September 2004, the court granted in part and denied in part PM USA s motion for reconsideration. In August 2005, the Missouri Court of
Appeals affirmed the trial court s class certification order. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for further discussion of this case.       Hines, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Fifteenth Judicial Circuit, Palm Beach County, Florida, filed February 23, 2001 . In February 2002, the court granted plaintiffs  motion for class
certification, and defendants appealed. In December 2003, a Florida District Court of Appeal decertified the class. In March 2004, plaintiffs filed a motion for rehearing,  en banc  review or certification to the Florida Supreme Court. In
December 2004, the Florida Supreme Court stayed further proceedings pending the resolution of the  Engle  case discussed in Item 3.  Legal Proceedings . In January 2008, the Florida Supreme Court rejected plaintiffs  petition for
further review.         
   3   

Moore, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., Circuit Court, Marshall County, West Virginia, filed
September 17, 2001.        Curtis, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al., Fourth Judicial District Court, Minnesota, filed
November 28, 2001 . See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Lawrence, et al. v. Philip Morris
Incorporated (formerly known as Tremblay, et al., v. Philip Morris Incorporated), Superior Court, Rockingham County, New Hampshire, filed March 29, 2002.  The case has been consolidated with another  Lights/Ultra Lights  case.
      Pearson v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., Circuit Court, Multnomah County, Oregon, filed November 20, 2002 . See Item 3.
 Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Virden v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Hancock County, West
Virginia, filed March 28, 2003.        Stern, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., Superior Court, Middlesex County, New Jersey,
filed April 4, 2003.  In March 2006, the court granted PM USA s motion to strike plaintiffs  class certification motion, and plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration. A renewed motion for class certification was denied in
November 2007.       Arnold, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., Circuit Court, Madison County, Illinois, filed May 5, 2003.    
   Watson, et al. v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Pulaski County, Arkansas, filed May 29, 2003.  See Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Holmes, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., Superior Court, New Castle County,
Delaware, filed August 18, 2003.  In June 2006, PM USA filed a motion for summary judgment on preemption and consumer protection statutory exemption grounds. PM USA later withdrew this motion, but in April 2009, PM USA filed a renewed motion
for summary judgment on consumer protection statutory exemption grounds. This motion was denied on December 4, 2009.       Schwab, et al.
v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., United States District Court, Eastern District, New York, filed May 11, 2004 . See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Miner, et al. v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Franklin County, Arkansas, filed December 29, 2004.  See Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Mulford, et al. v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., United States District Court, New Mexico,
filed June 9, 2005 . See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Good, et al. v. Altria Group, Inc.,
et al., United States District Court, Maine, filed August 15, 2005.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Tang v. Philip Morris USA Inc., United States District Court, Eastern District, New York, filed December 17, 2008.        Biundo, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., (formerly known as Goins, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al.), United States District Court, Northern District, Illinois, filed December 23, 2008.  The case was removed to
federal court. In May 2009, plaintiff s motion to amend the complaint was granted after the claims of the initial class representative were dismissed without prejudice.       Tyrer, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., United States District Court, Southern District, California, filed January 14, 2009.        Domaingue, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., United States District Court, Eastern District, New York, filed March 19, 2009.    
   Wyatt, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., (formerly Nikolic, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al.), United States District Court, Eastern
District, Wisconsin, filed June 16, 2009.        Mirick, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., United States District Court,
Southern District, Mississippi, filed July 2, 2009.        Williams v. Altria Group, Inc., United States District Court, Eastern
District, Arkansas, filed July 6, 2009.          
   4   

Slater, et al. v. PM USA, et al., United States District Court, District of Columbia, filed
November 12, 2009.        Corse, et al. v. PM USA, et al., United States District Court, Middle District, Tennessee, filed
November 25, 2009.        Parsons, et al. v. PM USA, et al., United States District Court, District of Columbia, filed December 2,
2009.        Haubrich, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., United States District Court, Eastern District, Pennsylvania, filed December 9,
2009.        Kelly v. Martin   Bayley, Inc. et al., Circuit Court, Madison County, Illinois, filed February 4, 2005.  This
case is an individual smoker lawsuit brought in Illinois state court on behalf of an alleged smoker of  Lights  cigarettes. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.      Many of the cases above have been consolidated by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation in the United States District Court for the District of
Maine. For a discussion of this consolidation, see Item 3.  Legal Proceedings .      INTERNATIONAL CASES       Canada          Her Majesty the Queen in
Right of British Columbia v. Imperial Tobacco Limited, et al., Supreme Court, British Columbia, Vancouver Registry, Canada, filed January 24, 2001  .  In June 2003, the trial court granted defendants  motion to dismiss the case,
and plaintiff appealed. In May 2004, the appellate court reversed the trial court s decision. Defendants appealed. In September 2005, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that the legislation permitting the lawsuit is constitutional, and, as a
result, the case will proceed before the trial court. In September 2006, the British Columbia Court of Appeal rejected PM USA s motion seeking dismissal from the case on jurisdictional grounds. In April 2007, the Supreme Court of
Canada denied PM USA s motion seeking leave to appeal the jurisdictional decision. In June 2007, several defendants filed Third Party Notices against the Federal Government of Canada seeking contribution and indemnification from the
Federal Government. In April 2008, the trial court dismissed the Third Party Notices and PM USA joined in an appeal of the dismissal to the British Columbia Court of Appeals. On December 8, 2009, the British Columbia Court of
Appeals ruled that defendants can proceed against the Federal Government as a third party on the theory that the Federal Government negligently misrepresented to defendants the efficacy of a low tar tobacco variety that the Federal Government
developed and licensed to defendants, a decision that the Federal Government has appealed.         Her Majesty the Queen in Right of the
Province of New Brunswick v. Rothmans, Inc. et al., Court of the Queen s Bench, New Brunswick, Fredericton, Canada, filed March 13, 2008.  The complaint alleges deceit and misrepresentation, failure to warn, marketing to minors,
negligent design and manufacture, conspiracy and concerted actions and seeks reimbursement for past, present and future healthcare costs of individuals with tobacco-related injuries. Defendants have filed with the Canadian Supreme Court a motion for
leave to appeal the trial court's ruling that a contingency fee arrangement between the Province and U.S. litigation counsel is not unlawful.       Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Ontario v. Rothmans Inc., et al., Superior Court of Ontario, Canada, filed on or about September 30, 2009.  This health care cost recovery action is nearly identical in substance and named
defendants to the suits brought in British Columbia and New Brunswick.       Adams, et al. v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et
al., Court of Queen s Bench for Saskatchewan, Judicial Centre of Regina, Canada, filed July 10, 2009.  The defendants named in this smoking and health class action lawsuit include PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. See Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.      Suits have been filed in three other Provinces in Canada that seek similar relief against the
same defendants as in  Adams.  The cases are:  Dorion, et al. v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., Court of Queen s Bench of Alberta, Judicial District of Calgary, Canada, filed on or about June 17, 2009 ;
 Kunta, et al. v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., Court of Queen s Bench, Winnipeg Centre, Canada, filed on an unknown date in June 2009 ; and  Semple, et al. v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al.,
Supreme Court of Nova Scotia, Canada, filed on or about June 18, 2009.           
   5   

Israel        Kupat Holim Clalit v. Philip Morris USA, et al., Jerusalem District Court, Israel, filed September 28, 1998 . Defendants  motion to dismiss this health care cost recovery case was denied
by the district court. In June 2004, defendants filed a motion with the Israel Supreme Court for leave to appeal. The appeal was heard by the Supreme Court in March 2005, and the parties are awaiting the court s decision.       El-Roy, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., District Court of Tel-Aviv/Jaffa, Israel, filed January 18, 2004.  Hearings on
plaintiffs  motion for class certification were held in November and December 2008.       Dr. Eliezer Amsterdam v. Philip Morris Ltd.,
et al., Jerusalem District Court, Israel, filed July 20, 2009 . Plaintiff has not yet served his refiled individual smoking and health complaint on PM USA.        See Item 3.    Legal Proceedings    for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI, which provides for indemnities for certain liabilities
concerning tobacco products.         CERTAIN OTHER TOBACCO-RELATED ACTIONS      The following lists certain other tobacco-related litigation pending against Altria Group, Inc. and/or its various subsidiaries and others as of February 19, 2010, and describes certain developments
since October 26, 2009.       Tobacco Price Cases        Smith, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al., District Court, Seward County, Kansas, filed February 9, 2000.  In November 2001, the court granted plaintiffs  motion for class
certification. The case is pending; there is no trial date.       Romero, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al., First Judicial
District Court, Rio Arriba County, New Mexico, filed April 10, 2000 . Plaintiffs  motion for class certification was granted in April 2003. In February 2005, the New Mexico Court of Appeals affirmed the class certification decision. In
June 2006, defendants  motion for summary judgment was granted and the case was dismissed. Plaintiffs appealed the trial court s grant of summary judgment. In November 2008, the New Mexico Court of Appeals reversed the summary judgment
decision. In February 2009, the New Mexico Supreme Court granted the petition for  writ of certiorari  filed by PM USA and other defendants. Argument before the New Mexico Supreme Court was held on February 22, 2010.       Cases under the California Business and Professions Code        Brown, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, Inc., et al., Superior Court, San Diego County, California, filed June 10, 1997.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of
this case.       MSA-Related Cases       PM USA is one of several defendants in a case filed in Kentucky by an MSA-participating manufacturer that is not an original participating manufacturer. There are other cases in a number of states in which plaintiffs have challenged the MSA
and/or legislation implementing it, but PM USA is not a defendant in these cases. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for discussion of these proceedings.       Possible Adjustments in MSA Payments for 2003 to 2008       See Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings  for a description of these proceedings.       Ignition Propensity Cases        Sarro v. Philip Morris USA Inc., United States District Court, Massachusetts, filed December 20, 2007 . Plaintiff contends that a  Marlboro 
cigarette caused a fire that led to an individual s death. Plaintiff seeks $250,000 for property damage and an unspecified amount in damages for wrongful death. In August 2009, PM USA s motion to dismiss the case was granted in part, but
the trial court ruled that two claims unrelated to product design could go forward. On January 13, 2010, plaintiff filed a motion for reconsideration or to certify questions to the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court.         
   6   

Walker, et al. v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al., United States District Court, Western District,
Kentucky, filed February 1, 2008 . Plaintiffs are the representatives and heirs of nine of the ten individuals who died in a house fire allegedly caused by a  Marlboro Lights  cigarette. Plaintiffs seek unspecified amounts in actual
damages, punitive damages and interest. In addition to PM USA, the defendants named in the complaint include Altria Group, Inc. In February 2009, the court, upon motion of the defendants, dismissed plaintiffs  claims. Plaintiffs filed a notice
of appeal in March 2009. The appeal currently is pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.       Kerr v. PM USA,
et al., United States District Court, Southern District, Mississippi, filed February 27, 2009 in the Circuit Court, Jackson County, Mississippi.  Plaintiff is the representative of the estate of an individual whose death was caused by a fire
allegedly arising from a cigarette. PM USA removed the case to federal court in July 2009. PM USA s motion for summary judgment is pending.       Green v. PM USA, et al., Circuit Court, Colbert County, Alabama, filed April 7, 2009.  Plaintiff is the representative of the estate of an individual whose death was caused by a fire allegedly arising from a cigarette.
      Hallmark v. PM USA, et al., Circuit Court, Colbert County, Alabama, filed April 7, 2009.  Plaintiff is the representative of the
estate of an individual whose death was caused by a fire allegedly arising from a cigarette.       Villarreal v. Altria Group, Inc., et al.,
District Court, Nueces County, Texas (Corpus Christi), filed July 1, 2009.  Plaintiff is the representative of the estate of an individual whose death was caused by a fire allegedly arising from a cigarette. PM USA removed the case to
federal court in August 2009. Plaintiff s motion to remand to state court was granted on January 29, 2010.      UST LITIGATION
     The following lists certain actions pending against UST and/or its subsidiaries as of February 19, 2010.       Vassallo v. United States Tobacco Co., et al .,  Circuit Court of the Judicial District, Miami-Dade County, Florida ,  filed November 12,
2002.         Hill, et al. v. U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company,  Connecticut Superior Court, filed March 7, 2005. Trial in the case is
scheduled to commence in December 2010.         
   7   

</EX-99.1>

<EX-99.2>
 16
 dex992.htm
 TRIAL SCHEDULE

Trial Schedule 

Exhibit 99.2       TRIAL SCHEDULE FOR CERTAIN CASES      Below is a schedule, as of February 19, 2010, setting forth
by month the number of individual smoking and health cases against PM USA that are scheduled for trial through the end of 2010.       2010  
     Individual Smoking   Health       
     Engle  progeny       
    As of February 19, 2010, no  Engle 
progeny cases were in trial.   

</EX-99.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 17
 mo-20091231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 18
 mo-20091231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 19
 mo-20091231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 20
 mo-20091231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 21
 mo-20091231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 22
 mo-20091231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

