<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110225_10-K_edgar_data_764180_0001193125-11-045778_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>35673403</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>912708</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>7180953</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2461248</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>9231192</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>15325328</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>139</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>22</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-11-045778.hdr.sgml : 20110225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110224190135
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-11-045778
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		23
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110224

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ALTRIA GROUP, INC.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000764180
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CIGARETTES [2111]
		IRS NUMBER:				133260245
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			VA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08940
		FILM NUMBER:		11638082

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6601 WEST BROAD STREET
		CITY:			RICHMOND
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			23230
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(804) 274-2200

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6601 WEST BROAD STREET
		CITY:			RICHMOND
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			23230

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ALTRIA GROUP INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20030127

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 PL8rL/6AlmZaBxzc0qsFDRVLv15r7sRvElIRrlcjAeh+e9FwjiSmlSt+Sj4T/d/N
 YPR1SpNcLcaudvEt1slFkw==

 0001193125-11-045778.txt : 20110225

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

     UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549              FORM 10-K          
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010       OR    

For the transition period from
                       to
                          
   Commission File Number 1-8940          
   ALTRIA GROUP, INC.        (Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter)    

Virginia   
     
   13-3260245    
 
   (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)   
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)            
     804-274-2200    
   (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:         

Title of each
class                        
     
    Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
  Common Stock, $0.33    1   /3 par value  
     
  New York Stock Exchange       Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act.    Yes             No            
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes             No            
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes             No               Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has
submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes             No            
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive      proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.             
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the
definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer           
     
  Accelerated filer           
     
    Non-accelerated filer            
     
  Smaller reporting company            

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)              
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes         No 
          
  As of June 30, 2010, the aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $42 billion
based on the closing sale price of the common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.         
     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE    

Document     

Parts Into Which Incorporated      
 
  Portions of the registrant s annual report to stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2010 (the  2010 Annual Report )  
      
           Parts I, II, and IV           
 
  Portions of the registrant s definitive proxy statement for use in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 19, 2011, to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission ( SEC ) on or about April 8, 2011.  
      
           Part III    

Table of Contents  

     TABLE OF CONTENTS         

Page  

PART I    

Item 1.   
      
   Business   

1  

Item 1A.   
      
   Risk Factors   

12  

Item 1B.   
      
   Unresolved Staff Comments   

17  

Item 2.   
      
   Properties   

17  

Item 3.   
      
   Legal Proceedings   

17  

Item 4.   
      
   (Removed and Reserved)   

53  

PART II     

Item 5.   
      
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

54  

Item 6.   
      
   Selected Financial Data   

55  

Item 7.   
      
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

55  

Item 7A.   
      
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

55  

Item 8.   
      
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

55  

Item 9.   
      
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

55  

Item 9A.   
      
   Controls and Procedures   

55  

Item 9B.   
      
   Other Information   

55  

PART III     

Item 10.   
      
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

56  

Item 11.   
      
   Executive Compensation   

57  

Item 12.   
      
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

57  

Item 13.   
      
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   

57  

Item 14.   
      
   Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

57  

PART IV     

Item 15.   
      
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    

58  

Signatures     

65  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule

S-1  

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts     

S-2  

Table of Contents  

      PART I          

Item   
   1.    Business.                
    (a) General Development of Business           
   General          
  Altria Group, Inc. is a holding company incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1985. At December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. s
wholly-owned subsidiaries included Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and certain smokeless products in the United States; UST LLC ( UST ), which through its subsidiaries
is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless products and wine; and John Middleton Co. ( Middleton ), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco. Philip Morris Capital Corporation
( PMCC ), another wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc., maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct finance leases. In addition, Altria Group, Inc. held a 27.1% economic and voting interest in SABMiller plc
( SABMiller ) at December 31, 2010.            As
discussed in Note 3.  Acquisition  to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2010 Annual Report, on January 6, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding
common stock of UST, whose direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries include U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC ( USSTC ) and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd. ( Ste. Michelle ). As a result of the acquisition, UST has become
an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc.         
  On March 28, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its interest in Philip Morris International Inc. ( PMI ) to Altria Group,
Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. For a further discussion of the PMI spin-off, see Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation  to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by
reference to the 2010 Annual Report.            On March 30, 2007
(the  Kraft Distribution Date ), Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft Foods Inc. ( Kraft ) on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. Following the Kraft
Distribution Date, Altria Group, Inc. does not own any shares of Kraft. Altria Group, Inc. has reflected the results of Kraft prior to the Kraft Distribution Date as discontinued operations. The Kraft spin-off resulted in a net decrease to Altria
Group, Inc. s total stockholders  equity of $30.5 billion on the Kraft Distribution Date.            On December 11, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding stock of Middleton for $2.9 billion in cash. The acquisition was financed with available cash.   
        PM USA is the largest cigarette company in the United States.
 Marlboro , the principal cigarette brand of this company, has been the largest-selling cigarette brand in the United States for over 30 years. USSTC is the leading producer and marketer of moist smokeless tobacco ( MST ) products,
including the premium brands,  Copenhagen  and  Skoal,  and the value brands,  Red Seal  and  Husky.  Middleton is a manufacturer of machine-made large cigars.  Black   Mild , the principal cigar brand of Middleton,
is the second largest selling machine-made large cigar in the United States. Ste. Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarily  Chateau Ste. Michelle  and  Columbia Crest , and owns wineries in or distributes wines
from several other wine regions and foreign countries.            In
June 2009, the President signed into law the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act ( FSPTCA ), which provides the United States Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) with authority to regulate the design, manufacture,
packaging, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of cigarettes, cigarette tobacco and smokeless tobacco products and the authority to require disclosures   
         -1-   

Table of Contents  

of related information. The law also grants the FDA authority to extend its application, by regulation, to other tobacco products, including cigars. PM USA and a subsidiary of USSTC are subject
to quarterly user fees as a result of this legislation.             Dividends and
Share Repurchases:             Following the Kraft spin-off,
Altria Group, Inc. lowered its dividend so that holders of both Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft shares would receive initially, in the aggregate, the same dividends paid by Altria Group, Inc. prior to the Kraft spin-off. Similarly, following the PMI
spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its dividend so that holders of both Altria Group, Inc. and PMI shares would receive initially, in the aggregate, the same dividends paid by Altria Group, Inc. prior to the PMI spin-off.   
        Subsequent to the PMI spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. has increased its
quarterly dividend four times. On February 24, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors approved a 2.9% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.35 per common share from $0.34 per common share. On August 27, 2010, Altria Group,
Inc. s Board of Directors approved an additional 8.6% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.38 per common share, resulting in an aggregate quarterly dividend rate increase of 11.8% since the beginning of 2010. The current annualized dividend
rate is $1.52 per Altria Group, Inc. common share. Altria Group, Inc. s dividend payout ratio target is approximately 80% of adjusted diluted earnings per share. Future dividend payments remain subject to the discretion of Altria Group,
Inc. s Board of Directors.            In January 2011, Altria
Group, Inc. s Board of Directors authorized a new $1.0 billion one-year share repurchase program. Share repurchases under this program depend upon marketplace conditions and other factors. The share repurchase program remains subject to the
discretion of Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors.         
  During the second quarter of 2008, Altria Group, Inc. repurchased 53.5 million shares of its common stock at an aggregate cost of approximately
$1.2 billion, or an average price of $21.81 per share pursuant to its $4.0 billion (2008 to 2010) share repurchase program. No shares were repurchased during 2010 or 2009 under this share repurchase program, which was suspended in September 2009.
The new share repurchase program replaces the suspended program.             Source of Funds          
  Because Altria Group, Inc. is a holding company, its principal sources of funds consist of cash received from its wholly-owned subsidiaries from the
payment of dividends and distributions, and the payment of interest on intercompany loans. At December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. s principal wholly-owned subsidiaries were not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their
ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their common stock. In addition, Altria Group, Inc. receives cash dividends on its interest in SABMiller, if and when SABMiller pays such dividends on its stock.   
          (b) Financial Information About Segments     
        At December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. s reportable
segments were: cigarettes, smokeless products, cigars, wine and financial services. Net revenues and operating companies income (together with reconciliation to earnings from continuing operations before income taxes) attributable to each such
segment for each of the last three years are set forth in Note 17.  Segment Reporting  to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2010 Annual Report.   
         -2-   

Table of Contents  

   Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker reviews operating companies income to
evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Operating companies income for the segments excludes general corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles. Interest and other debt expense, net (consumer products), and provision for income
taxes are centrally managed at the corporate level and, accordingly, such items are not presented by segment since they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability reviewed by Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker. The
accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the
2010 Annual Report.            The relative percentages of operating
companies income attributable to each reportable segment were as follows:         
          Changes in the relative percentages above reflect the following:         

UST Acquisition  In January 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST, the results of which are reflected in the smokeless products and wine segments.

Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs  For a discussion of asset impairment, exit, implementation and integration costs and a
breakdown of these costs by segment, see Note 6.  Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs  to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2010 Annual Report.

PMCC Allowance for Losses  During 2008, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $100 million, primarily as a result of credit rating downgrades of
certain lessees and financial market conditions.            
    (c) Narrative Description of Business           
   Tobacco Space          
  PM USA is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and certain smokeless products in the United States.   
        USSTC and other subsidiaries of UST are engaged in the manufacture and
sale of smokeless products to customers, substantially all of which are located in the United States.         
  Middleton is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco to customers, substantially all of which are located
in the United States.            Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco
operating companies believe that a significant number of adult tobacco consumers switch between tobacco categories and use multiple forms of tobacco products.   
         -3-   

Table of Contents  

   Altria Sales   Distribution Inc. provides centralized sales, merchandising and distribution
services to Altria Group, Inc. s three tobacco operating companies. Altria Consumer Engagement Services Inc. provides marketing and promotion services to Altria Group, Inc. s three tobacco operating companies primarily through execution of
one-to-one adult consumer programs.             Cigarettes    
        PM USA is the largest tobacco company in the United States, with total
cigarette shipments in the United States of 140.8 billion units in 2010, a decrease of 5.3% from 2009.         
  PM USA ceased production at its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and completed the consolidation of its cigarette manufacturing
capacity into its Richmond, Virginia facility on July 29, 2009. PM USA took this action to address ongoing cigarette volume declines, including the impact of the federal excise tax ( FET ) increase enacted in early 2009. During 2010,
PM USA substantially completed the de-commissioning of the Cabarrus facility and expects to fully complete the de-commissioning in early 2011.         
  Effective in the first quarter of 2010, PM USA revised its cigarettes segment reporting of volume and retail share results to reflect how management
evaluates segment performance. PM USA is reporting volume and retail share performance as follows:  Marlboro ; Other Premium brands, such as  Virginia Slims ,  Parliament  and  Benson   Hedges ; and Discount brands,
which include  Basic  and  L M , and other discount brands. All of its brands are marketed to take into account differing preferences of adult smokers.   
        The following table summarizes cigarettes segment volume performance,
which includes units sold, as well as promotional units, but excludes Puerto Rico, U.S. Territories, Overseas Military, Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and 2008 contract manufacturing for PMI (terminated in the fourth quarter of 2008), none of which,
individually or in the aggregate, is material to the cigarettes segment:         
          PM USA s 2010 total premium brands ( Marlboro  and Other Premium brands) shipment volume decreased 4.4% from 2009. In the Discount brands, PM USA s shipment volume decreased 16.8%.  Marlboro  is
the largest-selling cigarette brand in the United States, with shipments of 121.9 billion units in 2010 (down 3.7% from 2009). Shipments of premium cigarettes accounted for 93.9% of PM USA s total 2010 volume, up from 93.0% in 2009.
  
         -4-   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes cigarettes segment retail share performance based on data from
SymphonyIRI Group/Capstone, which is a retail tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share performance in retail stores selling cigarettes. The panel was not designed to capture sales through other channels, including the
Internet and direct mail.         
           Smokeless products          
  USSTC is the leading producer and marketer of smokeless tobacco products, including the premium brands,  Copenhagen  and  Skoal , and the
value brands,  Red Seal  and  Husky . In addition, the smokeless products segment includes  Marlboro  Snus, a PM USA spit-less smokeless tobacco product.   
        The following table summarizes smokeless products segment volume
performance (full year results):         
          Volume includes cans and packs sold, as well as promotional units, but excludes international volume, which is not material to the smokeless products segment. Additionally, 2009 volume includes 10.9 million
cans of domestic volume shipped by USSTC prior to the UST acquisition. Other includes USSTC and PM USA smokeless products. Volume from 2008 represents only domestic volume shipped by USSTC prior to the UST acquisition.   
        New types of smokeless products, as well as new packaging
configurations of existing smokeless products, may or may not be equivalent to existing MST products on a can for can basis. USSTC and PM USA have assumed the following equivalent ratios to calculate volumes of cans and packs shipped:   

One pack of snus, irrespective of the number of pouches in the pack, is equivalent to one can of MST;      

One can of  Skoal  Slim Can pouches is equivalent to a 0.53 can of MST; and            

All other products are considered to be equivalent on a can for can basis.      
         -5-   

Table of Contents  

   If assumptions regarding these equivalent ratios change, it may result in a change to these reported
results.            USSTC and PM USA s combined domestic
smokeless products shipment volume for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 12.2% versus 2009. The smokeless products segment domestic shipment volume for the period from January 6 through December 31, 2009 was
634.7 million units. Including the volume of 10.9 million cans shipped from January 1 through January 5, 2009, the period prior to Altria Group, Inc. s acquisition of UST, total volume for the full year ended
December 31, 2009 was 645.6 million units.            The
following table summarizes smokeless products segment retail share performance (full year results, excluding international volume):         
          Smokeless products retail share performance is based on data from SymphonyIRI Group ( Symphony IRI ) InfoScan Smokeless Tobacco Database for Food, Drug, Mass Merchandisers (excluding Wal-Mart) and
Convenience trade classes, which tracks smokeless products market share performance based on the number of cans and packs sold. Smokeless products is defined as MST and spit-less tobacco products. Other includes USSTC and PM USA smokeless tobacco
products other than  Copenhagen  and  Skoal . It is SymphonyIRI s standard practice to periodically refresh its InfoScan syndicated services, which could restate retail share results that were previously released.   
        New types of smokeless products, as well as new packaging
configurations of existing smokeless products, may or may not be equivalent to existing MST products on a can for can basis. USSTC and PM USA have made the following assumptions for calculating retail share:   

One pack of snus, irrespective of the number of pouches in the pack, is equivalent to one can of MST; and      

All other products are considered to be equivalent on a can for can basis.      
        If assumptions regarding these equivalent ratios change, it may result
in a change to these reported results.   
         -6-   

Table of Contents  

    Cigars          
  The following table summarizes cigars segment volume performance:   
     
          In 2010, Middleton s cigar shipment volume decreased 1.0% versus 2009 to 1,246 million units.         
  The following table summarizes cigars segment retail share performance:   
     
          Cigars segment retail share results are based on data from SymphonyIRI InfoScan Cigar Database for Food, Drug, Mass Merchandisers (excluding Wal-Mart) and Convenience trade classes, which tracks machine-made large
cigars market share performance. Middleton defines machine-made large cigars as cigars made by machine that weigh greater than three pounds per thousand, except cigars sold at retail in packages of 20 cigars. This service was developed to provide a
representation of retail business performance in key trade channels. It is SymphonyIRI s standard practice to periodically refresh its InfoScan syndicated services, which could restate retail share results that were previously released.
            Distribution, Competition and Raw Materials    
        Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries sell their tobacco
products principally to wholesalers (including distributors), large retail organizations, including chain stores, and the armed services.         
  The market for tobacco products is highly competitive, characterized by brand recognition and loyalty, with product quality, taste, price, product
innovation, marketing, packaging and distribution constituting the significant methods of competition. Promotional activities include, in certain instances and where permitted by law, allowances, the distribution of incentive items, price promotions
and other discounts, including coupons, product promotions and allowances for new products. The tobacco products of Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries are promoted through various means, although television and radio advertising of certain
tobacco products is prohibited in the United States. In addition, the FSPTCA imposes significant new restrictions on the sale, advertising and promotion of tobacco products and, as discussed below in Item 3.  Legal Proceedings ( Item
3 ),  and Note 21.  Contingencies  to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2010 Annual Report ( Note 21 ).   PM USA, USSTC and other U.S. tobacco
manufacturers have agreed to other marketing restrictions in the United States as part of the settlements of state health care cost recovery actions.   
         -7-   

Table of Contents  

   In the United States, under a contract growing program, PM USA purchases burley and flue-cured leaf
tobaccos of various grades and styles directly from tobacco growers. Under the terms of this program, PM USA agrees to purchase the amount of tobacco specified in the grower contracts. PM USA also purchases its United States tobacco requirements
through leaf merchants. In 2003, PM USA and certain other defendants reached an agreement with plaintiffs to settle a suit filed on behalf of a purported class of tobacco growers and quota-holders. The agreement includes a commitment by each
settling manufacturer defendant, including PM USA, to purchase a certain percentage of its leaf requirements from U.S. tobacco growers over a period of at least ten years. These quantities are subject to adjustment in accordance with the terms
of the settlement agreement.            Tobacco production in the
United States was historically subject to government controls, including the production control programs administered by the United States Department of Agriculture (the  USDA ). In October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act
of 2004 ( FETRA ) was signed into law. PM USA, USSTC, and Middleton are all subject to obligations imposed by FETRA. FETRA eliminated the federal tobacco quota and price support program through an industry-funded buy-out of tobacco growers
and quota holders. The cost of the buy-out is approximately $9.5 billion and is being paid over 10 years by manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of
manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The quota buy-out payments had offset PM USA s obligations to make payments to the National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust (the  NTGST ), a trust fund established in 1999
by the major domestic tobacco product manufacturers to provide aid to tobacco growers and quota holders. PM USA s payment obligations under the NTGST expired on December 15, 2010.            On February 8, 2011, PM USA filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging the USDA s method for calculating the
2011 and future tobacco class share allocations for the Tobacco Transition Payment Program under FETRA. PM USA believes that the USDA violated FETRA and its own regulations by failing to apply the most recent FET rates enacted by Congress in April
2009 to the USDA s calculations.            The quota buy-out did
not have a material impact on Altria Group, Inc. s 2010 consolidated results and Altria Group, Inc. does not currently anticipate that the quota buy-out will have a material adverse impact on its consolidated results in 2011 and beyond.
           USSTC purchases burley, dark fire-cured and air-cured
tobaccos of various grades and styles from domestic tobacco growers under a contract growing program as well as from leaf merchants.         
  Middleton purchases burley, dark air-cured tobaccos of various grades and styles through leaf merchants. Middleton does not have a contract growing
program.            Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries
believe there is an adequate supply of tobacco in the world markets to satisfy their current and anticipated production requirements.         
   Wine          
  Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST and its premium wine business, Ste. Michelle, in January 2009. Ste. Michelle is a producer of premium varietal and
blended table wines. Ste. Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarily  Chateau Ste. Michelle  and  Columbia Crest,  and owns wineries in or distributes wines from several other wine regions .  Ste. Michelle
holds an 85% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori, LLC, which owns  Stag s Leap Wine Cellars  in Napa Valley. Ste. Michelle also owns  Conn Creek  in Napa Valley and  Erath  in Oregon. In addition, Ste. Michelle distributes
 Antinori  and  Villa Maria Estate  wines and  Champagne Nicolas Feuillatte  in the United States.   
         -8-   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes wine segment case shipment volume performance:   
     
          Ste. Michelle s wine shipment volume of 6.7 million cases for 2010 increased 11.3% versus 2009.         
  During 2010, Ste. Michelle s retail unit volume, as measured by The Nielsen Company ( Nielsen ) and its Nielsen Total Wine Database
  U.S. Food, Drug,   Liquor, increased 5.6% versus 2009. Ste. Michelle s retail unit volume percentage change is based on data from Nielsen, which tracks retail metrics in the wine space. It is Nielsen s standard practice to
refresh its syndicated databases periodically, which could restate retail metrics that were previously released. Ste. Michelle s retail unit volume includes  Villa Maria Estate  in 2010 and excludes it in 2009. Ste. Michelle gained
distribution rights to  Villa Maria Estate  in 2010.             Distribution,
Competition and Raw Materials             A key element of Ste.
Michelle s strategy is expanded domestic distribution of its wines, especially in certain account categories such as restaurants, wholesale clubs, supermarkets, wine shops and mass merchandisers.   
        Ste. Michelle s business is subject to significant competition,
including competition from many larger, well-established domestic and international companies, as well as from many smaller wine producers. Wine segment competition is primarily based on quality, price, consumer and trade wine tastings, competitive
wine judging, third-party acclaim and advertising. Substantially all of Ste. Michelle s sales occur through state-licensed distributors.         
  Federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various means, including licensing requirements,
pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies. Further regulatory restrictions or additional excise or other taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages may have an adverse effect on Ste.
Michelle s wine business.            Ste. Michelle uses grapes
harvested from its own vineyards or purchased from independent growers, as well as bulk wine purchased from other sources. Grape production can be adversely affected by weather and other forces that may limit production. At the present time, Ste.
Michelle believes that there is a sufficient supply of grapes and bulk wine available in the market to satisfy its current and expected production requirements.         
   Financial Services          
  In 2003, PMCC ceased making new investments and began focusing exclusively on managing its existing portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize
gains and generate cash flow from asset sales and related activities. Accordingly, PMCC s operating companies income will fluctuate over time as investments mature or are sold. At December 31, 2010, PMCC s net finance receivables of
  
         -9-   

Table of Contents  

approximately $4.4 billion in leveraged leases, which are included in finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheet, consisted of rents receivable ($13.0 billion)
and the residual value of assets under lease ($1.3 billion), reduced by third-party nonrecourse debt ($8.3 billion) and unearned income ($1.6 billion). The repayment of the nonrecourse debt is collateralized by lease payments receivable and the
leased property, and is nonrecourse to the general assets of PMCC. As required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the third-party nonrecourse debt has been offset against the related rents receivable and has
been presented on a net basis within finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets. Finance assets, net, at December 31, 2010, also included net finance receivables for direct finance leases ($0.3 billion) and an
allowance for losses ($0.2 billion).            At December 31,
2010, PMCC s investments in finance leases were principally comprised of the following investment categories: rail and surface transport (30%), aircraft (25%), electric power (24%), real estate (12%) and manufacturing (9%).   
        See Note 21 for a discussion of the IRS disallowance of certain tax
benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions.         
   Business Environment          
  Portions of the information called for by this Item are hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraphs captioned  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Operating Results by Business Segment   Tobacco Space Business Environment  on pages 91 to 97 of the 2010 Annual Report;
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Operating Results by Business Segment   Wine Segment Business Environment  on page 102 of such report; and  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Operating Results by Business Segment   Financial Services Segment Business Environment  on page 103 of such report and made a part hereof.
            Other Matters    
         Customers    
        The largest customer of PM USA, USSTC and Middleton, McLane Company,
Inc., accounted for approximately 27%, 26%, and 27% of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These net revenues were reported in the cigarettes, smokeless
products and cigars segments.            Sales to three distributors
accounted for approximately 65% and 64% of net revenues for the wine segment for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.         
   Employees          
  At December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries employed approximately 10,000 people.   
         Executive Officers of Altria Group, Inc.    
        The disclosure regarding executive officers is set forth under the
heading  Executive Officers as of February 24, 2011  in Item 10 of this Form 10-K and is incorporated by reference herein.   
         -10-   

Table of Contents  

    Research and Development    
        The research and development expense for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 are set forth in Note 19.  Additional Information  to Altria Group, Inc. s financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2010 Annual Report.   
         Intellectual Property             Trademarks are of material importance to Altria Group, Inc. and its operating companies, and are protected by
registration or otherwise. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, the portfolio of over 500 United States patents owned by Altria Group, Inc. s businesses, as a whole, was material to Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco businesses. However,
no one patent or group of related patents was material to Altria Group, Inc. s business or its tobacco businesses as of December 31, 2010. We also have proprietary secrets, technology, know-how, processes and other intellectual property
rights that are protected by appropriate confidentiality measures. Certain trade secrets are material to Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco and wine businesses.         
   Environmental Regulation          
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning
the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise related to environmental protection, including, in the United States: The Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as  Superfund ), which can impose joint and several liability on each responsible party. Subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) of Altria Group, Inc. are involved in
several matters subjecting them to potential costs of remediation and natural resource damages under Superfund or other laws and regulations. Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in
connection with environmental laws and regulations. As discussed in Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  to Altria Group, Inc. s financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2010 Annual Report ,
 Altria Group, Inc. provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Other than those amounts, it is not possible to reasonably
estimate the cost of any environmental remediation and compliance efforts that subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. may undertake in the future. In the opinion of management, however, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including the
payment of any remediation costs or damages and the making of related expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial
position or cash flows.              (d) Financial Information About
Geographic Areas              Substantially all of Altria
Group, Inc. s net revenues from continuing operations are from sales generated in the United States for each of the last three fiscal years. As is described in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations,  set forth in the 2010 Annual Report, subsequent to the PMI spin-off, PM USA recorded net revenues of $298 million from contract volume manufactured for PMI under an agreement that terminated in the fourth quarter of 2008.
Subsequent to the PMI spin-off, substantially all of Altria Group, Inc. s long-lived assets are located in the United States.         
    (e) Available Information           
  Altria Group, Inc. is required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Investors may
read and copy any document that Altria Group, Inc. files,   
         -11-   

Table of Contents  

including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the
Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access Altria Group, Inc. s SEC filings.         
  Altria Group, Inc. makes available free of charge on or through its website (www.altria.com), its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports
on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after Altria Group,
Inc. electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Investors can access Altria Group, Inc. s filings with the SEC by visiting www.altria.com/secfilings.            The information on the respective websites of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries is not, and shall not be deemed to
be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings Altria Group, Inc. makes with the SEC.         

Item 1A.   
      Risk Factors                
   The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report on Form
10-K.          
  We   *    may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in filings with the SEC, in reports to security holders and in press releases and investor webcasts. You can
identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such as  strategy,   expects,   continues,   plans,   anticipates,   believes,   will,   estimates, 
 forecasts,   intends,   projects,   goals,   targets  and other words of similar meaning. You can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
           We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will
be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should
underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested
in Altria Group, Inc. s securities. In connection with the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause
actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. We elaborate on these and other risks we face
throughout this document, particularly in the  Business Environment  sections preceding our discussion of operating results of our subsidiaries  businesses in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations in the 2010 Annual Report. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or
uncertainties. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time.    

*  
  This section uses the terms  we,   our  and  us  when it is not necessary to distinguish among Altria Group, Inc. and its various operating
subsidiaries or when any distinction is clear from the context.     
         -12-   

Table of Contents  

    Tobacco-Related Litigation . Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or
threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including PM USA and UST, as well as their respective indemnitees. Various types of claims are raised in these proceedings, including
product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband shipments, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors and distributors.            Litigation is subject to uncertainty and it is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending cases. An
unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation. Damages claimed in some tobacco-related litigation are significant and, in certain cases, range in the billions of
dollars. The variability in pleadings, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome. In certain cases,
plaintiffs claim that defendants  liability is joint and several. In such cases, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries may face the risk that one or more co-defendants decline or otherwise fail to participate in the bonding required for
an appeal or to pay their proportionate or jury-allocated share of a judgment. As a result, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries under certain circumstances may have to pay more than their proportionate share of any bonding- or
judgment-related amounts.            Although PM USA has historically
been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all
cases. This risk has been substantially reduced given that 43 states now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all. As discussed in Note 21 and Item 3, tobacco litigation plaintiffs have challenged the constitutionality of
Florida s bond cap statute in several cases and plaintiffs may challenge other state bond cap statutes. Although we cannot predict the outcome of such challenges, it is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or
financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome of one or more such challenges.   
        Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have achieved substantial
success in managing litigation. Nevertheless, litigation is subject to uncertainty and significant challenges remain. It is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or one or more
of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. Altria Group, Inc. and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and
each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts. Each of the companies has defended, and will continue to
defend, vigorously against litigation challenges. However, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of Altria Group, Inc. to do so. See Note 21,
Item 3 and Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 for a discussion of pending tobacco-related litigation.             Tobacco Regulation and Control Action in the Public and Private Sectors . Our tobacco subsidiaries face significant governmental action, including efforts aimed at reducing the incidence of tobacco use,
restricting marketing and advertising, imposing regulations on packaging, warnings and disclosure of flavors or other ingredients, prohibiting the sale of tobacco products with certain characterizing flavors or other characteristics, limiting or
prohibiting the sale of tobacco products by certain retail establishments and the sale of tobacco products in certain packing sizes, and seeking to hold them responsible for the adverse health effects associated with both smoking and exposure to
environmental tobacco smoke.   
         -13-   

Table of Contents  

   PM USA, USSTC and other Altria Group, Inc. subsidiaries are subject to and may become subject to
regulation by the FDA, as discussed further in  Tobacco Space   Business Environment   FDA Regulation  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the 2010 Annual Report. We cannot
predict how the FDA will implement and enforce its statutory authority, including by promulgating additional regulations and pursuing possible investigatory or enforcement actions.   
        Governmental actions, combined with the diminishing social acceptance
of smoking and private actions to restrict smoking, have resulted in reduced cigarette industry volume, and we expect that these factors will continue to reduce cigarette consumption levels. Actions by the FDA or other federal, state or local
governments or agencies may impact the consumer acceptability of tobacco products, limit adult consumer choices, delay or prevent the launch of new or modified tobacco products, restrict communications to adult consumers, restrict the ability to
differentiate tobacco products, create a competitive advantage or disadvantage for certain tobacco companies, impose additional manufacturing, labeling or packing requirements, require the recall or removal of tobacco products from the marketplace
or otherwise significantly increase the cost of doing business, all or any of which may have a material adverse impact on the results of operations or financial condition of Altria Group, Inc.             Excise Taxes . Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes and significant increases in tobacco
product-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States at the state, federal and local levels. Tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on
sales of our tobacco products due to lower consumption levels and to a potential shift in consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and
contraband products. For further discussion, see  Tobacco Space   Business Environment   Excise Taxes  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the 2010 Annual Report.
            Increased Competition in the United States Tobacco
Categories . Each of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries operates in highly competitive tobacco categories. Settlements of certain tobacco litigation in the United States have resulted in substantial cigarette price increases. PM USA
faces competition from lowest priced brands sold by certain United States and foreign manufacturers that have cost advantages because they are not parties to these settlements. These manufacturers may fail to comply with related state escrow
legislation or may avoid escrow deposit obligations on the majority of their sales by concentrating on certain states where escrow deposits are not required or are required on fewer than all such manufacturers  cigarettes sold in such states.
Additional competition has resulted from diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the
Internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes, and increased imports of foreign lowest priced brands. USSTC faces significant competition in the smokeless tobacco category, both from existing competitors and new
entrants, and has experienced consumer down-trading to lower-priced brands. In the cigar category, additional competition has resulted from increased imports of machine-made large cigars manufactured offshore.   
         Governmental Investigations . From time to time, Altria Group,
Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters. We cannot predict whether new investigations may be commenced or the outcome of such investigations, and it is possible that our subsidiaries 
businesses could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome of future investigations.             New Tobacco Product Technologies . Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries continue to seek ways to develop and to commercialize new tobacco product technologies that may reduce the health
  
         -14-   

Table of Contents  

risks associated with current tobacco products, while continuing to offer adult tobacco consumers products that meet their taste expectations. Potential solutions being researched include tobacco
products that reduce or eliminate exposure to cigarette smoke and/or constituents identified by public health authorities as harmful. Our tobacco subsidiaries may not succeed in these efforts. If they do not succeed, but one or more of their
competitors does, our subsidiaries may be at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we cannot predict whether regulators, including the FDA, will permit the marketing of tobacco products with claims of reduced risk to consumers or whether
consumers  purchase decisions would be affected by such claims, which could affect the commercial viability of any tobacco products that might be developed.   
         Adjacency Strategy . Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have
adjacency growth strategies involving moves and potential moves into complementary products or processes. We cannot guarantee that these strategies, or any products introduced in connection with these strategies, will be successful.   
         Tobacco Price, Availability and Quality . Any significant change
in tobacco leaf prices, quality or availability could affect our tobacco subsidiaries  profitability and business. For a discussion of factors that influence leaf prices, availability and quality, see  Tobacco Space   Business
Environment   Tobacco Price, Availability and Quality  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the 2010 Annual Report.             Tobacco Key Facilities; Supply Security . Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries face risks inherent in
reliance on a few significant facilities and a small number of significant suppliers. A natural or man-made disaster or other disruption that affects the manufacturing facilities of any of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries or the
facilities of any significant suppliers of any of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries could adversely impact the operations of the affected subsidiaries. An extended interruption in operations experienced by one or more Altria Group,
Inc. subsidiaries or significant suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and financial condition of Altria Group, Inc.         
   Attracting and Retaining Talent . Our ability to implement our strategy of attracting and retaining the best talent may be impaired by the
decreasing social acceptance of tobacco usage. The tobacco industry competes for talent with the consumer products industry and other companies that enjoy greater societal acceptance. As a result, our tobacco subsidiaries may be unable to
attract and retain the best talent.             Competition,
Evolving Consumer Preferences and Economic Downturns . Each of our tobacco and wine subsidiaries is subject to intense competition, changes in consumer preferences and changes in economic conditions. To be successful, they must continue to:

promote brand equity successfully;            

anticipate and respond to new and evolving consumer preferences;      

develop new products and markets and to broaden brand portfolios in order to compete effectively with lower-priced products;      

improve productivity; and            

protect or enhance margins through cost savings and price increases.      
        The willingness of adult consumers to purchase premium consumer product
brands depends in part on economic conditions. In periods of economic uncertainty, adult consumers may purchase more discount brands and/or, in the case of tobacco products, consider lower-priced tobacco products. The volumes of our tobacco and wine
subsidiaries could suffer accordingly.   
         -15-   

Table of Contents  

   Our finance subsidiary, PMCC, holds investments in finance leases, principally in transportation
(including aircraft), power generation and manufacturing equipment and facilities. Its lessees are also subject to intense competition and economic conditions. If parties to PMCC s leases fail to manage through difficult economic and
competitive conditions, PMCC may have to increase its allowance for losses, which would adversely affect our earnings.         
   Acquisitions . Altria Group, Inc. from time to time considers acquisitions. From time to time we may engage in confidential acquisition
negotiations that are not publicly announced unless and until those negotiations result in a definitive agreement. Although we seek to maintain or improve our credit ratings over time, it is possible that completing a given acquisition or other
event could impact our credit ratings or the outlook for those ratings. Furthermore, acquisition opportunities are limited, and acquisitions present risks of failing to achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives and
anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms, that we will realize any of the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or that
acquisitions will be quickly accretive to earnings.         
   Capital Markets . Access to the capital markets is important for us to satisfy our liquidity and financing needs. Disruption and uncertainty
in the capital markets and any resulting tightening of credit availability, pricing and/or credit terms may negatively affect the amount of credit available to us and may also increase our costs and adversely affect our earnings or our dividend
rate.             Exchange Rates . For purposes of financial
reporting, the equity earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. s investment in SABMiller are translated into U.S. dollars from various local currencies based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. During times of a
strengthening U.S. dollar against these currencies, our reported equity earnings in SABMiller will be reduced because the local currencies will translate into fewer U.S. dollars.   
         Asset Impairment . We periodically calculate the fair value of
our goodwill and intangible assets to test for impairment. This calculation may be affected by general economic conditions, regulatory developments, changes in category growth rates as a result of changing consumer preferences, success of planned
new product introductions, competitive activity and tobacco-related taxes. If an impairment is determined to exist, we will incur impairment losses, which will reduce our earnings. For further discussion, see  Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates   Depreciation, Amortization and Intangible Asset Valuation  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the 2010 Annual Report .    
         IRS Challenges to PMCC Leases . The Internal Revenue Service has
challenged the tax treatment of certain of PMCC s leveraged leases. Should Altria Group, Inc. not prevail in any one or more of these matters, Altria Group, Inc. may have to accelerate the payment of significant amounts of federal income tax,
pay associated interest costs and penalties, if imposed, and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the income from the affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria
Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year. For further discussion see Note 21 and Item 3.         
   Wine   Competition; Grape Supply; Regulation and Excise Taxes . Ste. Michelle s business is subject to significant competition,
including from many large, well-established national and international organizations. The adequacy of Ste. Michelle s grape supply is influenced by consumer demand for wine in relation to industry-wide production levels as well as by
weather and crop conditions, particularly in eastern Washington state. Supply shortages related to any one or more of these factors could increase production costs and wine prices, which ultimately may have a negative impact on Ste.
Michelle s sales. In addition, federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various means, including licensing requirements, pricing, labeling and
  
         -16-   

Table of Contents  

advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies. New regulations or revisions to existing regulations, resulting in further restrictions or taxes on the manufacture and sale of
alcoholic beverages, may have an adverse effect on Ste. Michelle s wine business. For further discussion, see  Wine Segment   Business Environment  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations in the 2010 Annual Report.         

Item   
    1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments.                
  None.         

Item    
   2.    Properties.                
  The property in Richmond, Virginia that serves as the headquarters facility for Altria Group, Inc., PM USA, USSTC and Middleton and certain other
subsidiaries is under lease.            At December 31, 2010, PM
USA owned and operated three tobacco manufacturing and processing facilities in the Richmond, Virginia area. PM USA ceased production at its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and completed the consolidation of its cigarette
manufacturing capacity into its Richmond, Virginia facility on July 29, 2009. During 2010, PM USA substantially completed the de-commissioning of the Cabarrus facility and expects to fully complete the de-commissioning in early 2011. In
addition, PM USA owns a research and technology center in Richmond, Virginia that is leased to an affiliate, Altria Client Services Inc.         
  At December 31, 2010, a wholly-owned subsidiary of USSTC owned and operated four smokeless tobacco manufacturing and processing facilities
located in Franklin Park, Illinois; Hopkinsville, Kentucky; Nashville, Tennessee; and York County, Virginia.         
  At December 31, 2010, Middleton owned and operated two manufacturing and processing facilities   one in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania and
one in Limerick, Pennsylvania.            At December 31, 2010,
Ste. Michelle operated 11 wine-making facilities   seven in Washington State, three in California and one in Oregon. All of these facilities are owned, with the exception of a facility which is leased in the state of Washington. In
addition, in order to support the production of its wines, Ste. Michelle owns or leases vineyards in Washington State, California and Oregon.         
  The plants and properties owned or leased and operated by Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are maintained in good condition and are believed
to be suitable and adequate for present needs.         

Item 3.   
      Legal Proceedings.                
  Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria
Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including PM USA and UST and its subsidiaries, as well as their respective indemnitees. Various types of claims are raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax,
contraband shipments, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of distributors.         
  Litigation is subject to uncertainty and it is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending or future cases. An unfavorable outcome
or settlement of pending tobacco-related or other litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation. Damages claimed in some tobacco-related and other litigation are or can be significant and, in certain cases, range in the
billions of dollars. The variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit
  
         -17-   

Table of Contents  

bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome. In certain cases, plaintiffs claim that defendants  liability is joint and several. In such cases, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries
may face the risk that one or more co-defendants decline or otherwise fail to participate in the bonding required for an appeal or to pay their proportionate or jury-allocated share of a judgment. As a result, Altria Group, Inc. or its
subsidiaries under certain circumstances may have to pay more than their proportionate share of any bonding- or judgment-related amounts.        
  Although PM USA has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking
to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases. This risk has been substantially reduced given that 43 states now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require
no bond at all. As discussed below, however, tobacco litigation plaintiffs have challenged the constitutionality of Florida s bond cap statute in several cases and plaintiffs may challenge other state bond cap statutes. Although we cannot
predict the outcome of such challenges, it is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular fiscal
quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome of one or more such challenges.            Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when they determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can
be reasonably estimated. At the present time, while it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur, except as discussed elsewhere in this Item 3.  Legal Proceedings : (i) management has concluded that it is
not probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in any of the pending tobacco-related
cases; and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for unfavorable outcomes, if any. Legal defense costs are expensed as incurred.   
        Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have achieved substantial
success in managing litigation. Nevertheless, litigation is subject to uncertainty and significant challenges remain. It is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or one or more
of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. Altria Group, Inc. and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and
each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts. Each of the companies has defended, and will continue to
defend, vigorously against litigation challenges. However, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of Altria Group, Inc. to do so.   
         -18-   

Table of Contents  

    Overview of Altria Group, Inc. and/or PM USA Tobacco-Related Litigation    
         Types and Number of Cases    
        Claims related to tobacco products generally fall within the following
categories: (i) smoking and health cases alleging personal injury brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs; (ii) smoking and health cases primarily alleging personal injury or seeking court-supervised programs for ongoing medical
monitoring and purporting to be brought on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs, including cases in which the aggregated claims of a number of individual plaintiffs are to be tried in a single proceeding; (iii) health care cost recovery
cases brought by governmental (both domestic and foreign) and non-governmental plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking and/or disgorgement of profits; (iv) class action suits alleging
that the uses of the terms  Lights  and  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud, or violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ( RICO  and
(v) other tobacco-related litigation described below. Plaintiffs  theories of recovery and the defenses raised in pending smoking and health, health care cost recovery and  Lights/Ultra Lights  cases are discussed below.
           The table below lists the number of certain tobacco-related
cases pending in the United States against PM USA and, in some instances, Altria Group, Inc. as of February 18, 2011, December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009.   

(1)  
  Does not include 2,590 cases brought by flight attendants seeking compensatory damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to environmental tobacco smoke
( ETS ). The flight attendants allege that they are members of an ETS smoking and health class action, which was settled in 1997 ( Broin ). The terms of the court-approved settlement in that case allow class members to file individual
lawsuits seeking compensatory damages, but prohibit them from seeking punitive damages. Also, does not include approximately 7,223 individual smoking and health cases (3,284 state court cases and 3,939 federal court cases) brought by or on behalf of
approximately 8,890 plaintiffs in Florida (4,952 state court plaintiffs and 3,938 federal court plaintiffs) following the decertification of the  Engle  case discussed below. It is possible that some of these cases are duplicates and that
additional cases have been filed but not yet recorded on the courts  dockets. Certain  Broin  plaintiffs have filed a motion seeking approximately $50 million in sanctions for alleged interference by R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
( R.J. Reynolds ) and PM USA with Lorillard, Inc. s acceptance of offers of settlement in the  Broin  progeny cases.           

(2)  
    Includes as one case the 638 civil actions (of which 366 are actions against PM USA) that are proposed to be tried in a single proceeding in West Virginia ( In
re: Tobacco Litigation ). Middleton and USSTC were named as defendants in this action but they, along with other non-cigarette manufacturers, have been severed from this case. The West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals has ruled that the United
States Constitution does not preclude a trial in two phases in this case. Under the current trial plan, issues related to defendants  conduct and plaintiffs  entitlement to
     
         -19-   

Table of Contents  

punitive damages would be determined in the first phase. The second phase would consist of individual trials to determine liability, if any, as well as compensatory and punitive damages, if any.
The case is currently scheduled for trial on October 17, 2011.                International Tobacco-Related Cases             As of February 18, 2011, PM USA is a named defendant in Israel in one  Lights  class action and one health care cost recovery action. PM USA is a named defendant in three health care cost recovery
actions in Canada, two of which also name Altria Group, Inc. as a defendant. PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. are also named defendants in six smoking and health class actions filed in various Canadian provinces. See  Guarantees  for a
discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products.         
   Pending and Upcoming Tobacco-Related Trials          
  As of February 24, 2011, 49  Engle  progeny cases and 10 individual smoking and health cases against PM USA are set for trial in 2011.
Cases against other companies in the tobacco industry are also scheduled for trial in 2011. Trial dates are subject to change.         
   Trial Results          
  Since January 1999, verdicts have been returned in 66 smoking and health,  Lights/Ultra Lights  and health care cost recovery cases in
which PM USA was a defendant. Verdicts in favor of PM USA and other defendants were returned in 38 of the 66 cases. These 38 cases were tried in California (5), Florida (18), Mississippi (1), Missouri (2), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (1), New York
(3), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania (1), Rhode Island (1), Tennessee (2), and West Virginia (1). A motion for a new trial was granted in one of the cases in Florida.         
  Of the 28 cases in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs, eleven have reached final resolution and one case ( Williams   
see below) has reached partial resolution. A verdict against defendants in one health care cost recovery case ( Blue Cross/Blue Shield ) has been reversed and all claims were dismissed with prejudice. In addition, a verdict against defendants
in a purported  Lights  class action in Illinois ( Price ) was reversed and the case was dismissed with prejudice in December 2006. In December 2008, the plaintiff in  Price  filed a motion with the state trial court to vacate
the judgment dismissing this case in light of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good  (see below for a discussion of developments in  Good  and  Price ). After exhausting all appeals, PM USA has paid judgments in
these cases totaling $116.4 million and interest totaling $70.6 million.   
         -20-   

Table of Contents  

   The chart below lists the verdicts and post-trial developments in the cases that were pending during
2010 in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs.         

Date           

Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of       Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      
 
  February 2011  
      
    Florida/        Huish    
      
   Engle  progeny  
      
  On February 22, 2011, an Alachua County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA. The jury awarded $750,000 in compensatory damages and allocated 25% of the fault to
PM USA (an amount of $187,500). On February 24, 2011, the jury also awarded $1.5 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  PM USA intends to appeal the verdict.   

February 2011  
      
  Florida/  Hatziyannakis   
      
   Engle  progeny  
      
  On February 15, 2011, a Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA. The jury awarded approximately $270,000 in compensatory damages and
allocated 32% of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately $86,000).  
      
  PM USA intends to appeal this verdict.   

August 2010  
      
    Florida/      Piendle    
      
   Engle  progeny  
      
  In August 2010, a Palm Beach County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds. The jury awarded $4 million in compensatory damages and allocated 27.5%
of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately $1.1 million). The jury also awarded $90,000 in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
    In September 2010, the trial court entered final judgment. On January 18, 2011, the trial court denied the parties  post-trial motions. On
February 8, 2011, PM USA filed its notice of appeal and has posted a $1.2 million bond.     
         -21-   

Table of Contents  

Date           

Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of       Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

July 2010  
      
  Florida/  Tate   
      
   Engle  progeny  
      
  In July 2010, a Broward County jury in the  Tate  trial returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and against PM USA. The jury awarded $8 million in compensatory damages and allocated
64% of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately $5.1 million). The jury also awarded approximately $16.3 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  In August 2010, the trial court entered final judgment, and PM USA filed its notice of appeal and posted a $5 million appeal bond.   

April 2010  
      
  Florida/  Putney   
      
   Engle  progeny  
      
  In April 2010, a Broward County jury in the  Putney  trial returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Liggett Group. The jury awarded
approximately $15.1 million in compensatory damages and allocated 15% of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately $2.3 million). The jury also awarded $2.5 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  In August 2010, the trial court entered final judgment. PM USA filed its notice of appeal and posted a $1.6 million appeal bond.   

March 2010  
      
    Florida/      R. Cohen    
      
     Engle      progeny   
      
  In March 2010, a Broward County jury in the  R. Cohen  trial returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds. The jury awarded $10 million in
compensatory damages and allocated 33 1/3% of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately $3.3 million). The jury also awarded a total of $20 million in punitive damages, assessing separate $10 million awards against both defendants.  

In July 2010, the trial court entered final judgment and, in August 2010, PM USA filed its notice of appeal. In October 2010, PM USA posted a $2.5 million appeal
bond.    
         -22-   

Table of Contents  

Date           

Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of       Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

March 2010  
      
    Florida /       Douglas    
      
     Engle      progeny   
      
  In March 2010, the jury in the  Douglas  trial (conducted in Hillsborough County) returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Liggett Group. The
jury awarded $5 million in compensatory damages. Punitive damages were dismissed prior to trial. The jury allocated 18% of the fault to PM USA, resulting in an award of $900,000.  
      
  In June 2010, PM USA filed its notice of appeal and posted a $900,000 appeal bond. In September 2010, the plaintiff filed with the trial court a challenge to the constitutionality of the
Florida bond cap statute.   

November 2009  
      
    Florida/      Naugle    
      
     Engle      progeny   
      
  In November 2009, a Broward County jury in the  Naugle  trial returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and against PM USA. The jury awarded approximately $56.6 million in
compensatory damages and $244 million in punitive damages. The jury allocated 90% of the fault to PM USA.  
      
  In March 2010, the trial court entered final judgment reflecting a reduced award of approximately $13 million in compensatory damages and $26 million in punitive damages. In April 2010, PM
USA filed its notice of appeal and posted a $5 million appeal bond. In August 2010, upon the motion of PM USA, the trial court entered an amended final judgment of approxi-mately $12.3 million in compensatory damages and approximately $24.5 million
in punitive damages to correct a clerical error. The case remains on appeal.    
         -23-   

Table of Contents  

Date           

Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of       Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

August 2009  
      
    Florida/      F. Campbell    
      
     Engle      progeny   
      
  In August 2009, the jury in the  F. Campbell  trial (conducted in Escambia County) returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and against R.J. Reynolds, PM USA and Liggett Group. The
jury awarded $7.8 million in compensatory damages. There was no punitive damages award. In September 2009, the trial court entered final judgment and awarded the plaintiff $156,000 in damages against PM USA due to the jury allocating only 2% of the
fault to PM USA.  
      
  In January 2010, defendants filed their notice of appeal, and PM USA posted a $156,000 appeal bond. The Florida First District Court of Appeals heard argument on January 5,
2011.   

August 2009  
      
    Florida/      Barbanell    
      
     Engle      progeny   
      
  In August 2009, a Broward County jury in the  Barbanell  trial returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff, awarding $5.3 million in compensatory damages. The judge had previously
dismissed the punitive damages claim. In September 2009, the trial court entered final judgment and awarded plaintiff $1.95 million in actual damages. The judgment reduced the jury s $5.3 million award of compensatory damages due to the jury
allocating 36.5% of the fault to PM USA.  
      
  A notice of appeal was filed by PM USA in September 2009, and PM USA posted a $1.95 million appeal bond.    
         -24-   

Table of Contents  

Date           

Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of       Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

February 2009  
      
    Florida/      Hess    
      
     Engle      progeny   
      
  In February 2009, a Broward County jury in the  Hess  trial found in favor of plaintiffs and against PM USA. The jury awarded $3 million in compensatory damages and $5 million in
punitive damages. In June 2009, the trial court entered final judgment and awarded plaintiffs $1,260,000 in actual damages and $5 million in punitive damages. The judgment reduced the jury s $3 million award of compensatory damages due to the
jury allocating 42% of the fault to PM USA.  
      
  PM USA noticed an appeal to the Fourth District Court of Appeal in July 2009. In April 2010, the trial court signed an order releasing a previously posted bond pursuant to an agreement
between the parties. The case remains on appeal to the Florida District Court of Appeals for the Fourth District. Argument is scheduled to be heard March 16, 2011.   

May 2007  
      
  California/  Whiteley   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  Approximately $2.5 million in compensatory damages against PM USA and the other defendant in the case, as well as $250,000 in punitive damages against the other defendant in the
case.  
      
  In October 2007, in a limited retrial on the issue of punitive damages, the jury found that plaintiffs are not entitled to punitive damages against PM USA. In March 2008, PM USA noticed an
appeal to the California Court of Appeal, First Appellate District, which affirmed the judgment in October 2009. In November 2009, PM USA and the other defendant in the case filed a petition for review with the California Supreme Court. In
January 2010, the California Supreme Court denied defendants  petition for review. PM USA recorded a provision for compensatory damages of $1.26 million plus costs and interest in the first quarter of 2010, and paid its share of the
judgment in February 2010, concluding this litigation.    
         -25-   

Table of Contents  

Date           

Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of       Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

August 2006  
      
    District of Columbia/  United       States
of       America    
      
  Health Care Cost Recovery  
      
  Finding that defendants, including Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA, violated the civil provisions of RICO. No monetary damages were assessed, but the court made specific findings and issued
injunctions. See  Federal Government s Lawsuit  below.  
      
  See  Federal Government s Lawsuit  below.   

May 2004  
      
  Louisiana/  Scott   
      
  Smoking and Health Class Action  
      
  Approximately $590 million against all defendants, including PM USA, jointly and severally, to fund a 10-year smoking cessation program.  
      
  See  Scott  Class Action below.   

October 2002  
      
  California/  Bullock   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $850,000 in compensatory damages and $28 billion in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  See discussion (1) below.   

June 2002  
      
    Florida/      Lukacs    
      
   Engle  progeny  
      
  $37.5 million in compensatory damages against all defendants, including PM USA.  
      
  In March 2003, the trial court reduced the damages award to $24.8 million. Final judgment was entered in November 2008, awarding plaintiffs actual damages of $24.8 million, plus interest from
the date of the verdict. Defendants filed a notice of appeal in December 2008. In March 2010, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal affirmed  per curiam  the trial court decision without issuing an opinion. Subsequent review by the Florida
Supreme Court of a  per curiam  affirmance without opinion is generally prohibited. In May 2010, the court of appeal denied the defendants  petition for re-hearing. In June 2010, PM USA paid its share of the judgment which, with interest,
amounted to approximately $15.1 million.    
         -26-   

Table of Contents  

Date           

Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of       Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

March 2002  
      
  Oregon/  Schwarz   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $168,500 in compensatory damages and $150 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  In May 2002, the trial court reduced the punitive damages award to $100 million. In October 2002, PM USA posted an appeal bond of approximately $58.3 million. In May 2006, the Oregon Court of
Appeals affirmed the compensatory damages verdict, reversed the award of punitive damages and remanded the case to the trial court for a second trial to determine the amount of punitive damages, if any. In June 2006, plaintiff petitioned the Oregon
Supreme Court to review the portion of the court of appeals  decision reversing and remanding the case for a new trial on punitive damages. In June 2010, the Oregon Supreme Court affirmed the court of appeals  decision and remanded the
case to the trial court for a new trial limited to the question of punitive damages. In July 2010, plaintiff filed a petition for rehearing with the Oregon Supreme Court. On December 30, 2010, the Oregon Supreme Court reaffirmed its earlier ruling,
clarified that the only issue for retrial is the amount of punitive damages and awarded PM USA approximately $500,000 in costs. On January 7, 2011, the trial court issued an order releasing PM USA s appeal
bond.    
         -27-   

Table of Contents  

Date           

Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of       Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

March 1999  
      
  Oregon/  Williams   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $800,000 in compensatory damages (capped statutorily at $500,000), $21,500 in medical expenses and $79.5 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  See discussion (2) below.          

(1)  
   Bullock : In December 2002, the trial court reduced the punitive damages award to $28 million. In April 2006, the California Court of Appeal affirmed the $28 million
punitive damages award. In August 2006, the California Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  petition to overturn the trial court s reduction of the punitive damages award and granted PM USA s petition for review challenging the punitive
damages award. The court granted review of the case on a  grant and hold  basis under which further action by the court was deferred pending the United States Supreme Court s 2007 decision on punitive damages in the  Williams 
case described below. In February 2007, the United States Supreme Court vacated the punitive damages judgment in  Williams  and remanded the case to the Oregon Supreme Court for proceedings consistent with its decision. In May 2007, the
California Supreme Court transferred the case to the Second District of the California Court of Appeal with directions that the court vacate its 2006 decision and reconsider the case in light of the United States Supreme Court s decision in
 Williams . In January 2008, the California Court of Appeal reversed the judgment with respect to the $28 million punitive damages award, affirmed the judgment in all other respects, and remanded the case to the trial court to conduct a new
trial on the amount of punitive damages. In March 2008, plaintiffs and PM USA appealed to the California Supreme Court. In April 2008, the California Supreme Court denied both petitions for review. In July 2008, $43.3 million of escrow funds were
returned to PM USA. The case was remanded to the superior court for a new trial on the amount of punitive damages, if any. In August 2009, the jury returned a verdict, and in December 2009, the superior court entered a judgment, awarding
plaintiff $13.8 million in punitive damages, plus costs. In December 2009, PM USA filed a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict that seeks a reduction of the punitive damages award, which motion was denied in January 2010. PM USA
noticed an appeal in February 2010 and posted an appeal bond of approximately $14.7 million. As of December 31, 2010, PM USA has recorded a provision of approximately $1.7 million for compensatory damages, costs and interest.

(2)  
     Williams : The trial court reduced the punitive damages award to approximately $32 million, and PM USA and plaintiff appealed. In June 2002, the Oregon
Court of Appeals reinstated the $79.5 million punitive damages award. Following the Oregon Supreme Court s refusal to hear PM USA s appeal, PM USA recorded a provision of $32 million and petitioned the United States Supreme Court for
further review (PM USA later recorded additional provisions of approximately $29 million related primarily to accrued interest). In October 2003, the United States Supreme Court set aside the Oregon appellate court s ruling and directed the
Oregon court to reconsider the case in light of the 2003  State Farm  decision by the United States Supreme Court, which limited punitive damages. In June 2004, the Oregon Court of Appeals reinstated the $79.5 million punitive damages award. In
February 2006, the Oregon Supreme Court affirmed the Court of Appeals  decision. The United States Supreme Court granted PM USA s petition for  writ of certiorari  in May 2006. In February 2007, the United States Supreme Court
vacated the $79.5 million punitive damages award, holding that the United States Constitution prohibits basing punitive damages awards on harm to non-parties. The Court also found that states must assure that appropriate
     
         -28-   

Table of Contents  

procedures are in place so that juries are provided with proper legal guidance as to the constitutional limitations on awards of punitive damages. Accordingly, the Court remanded the case to the
Oregon Supreme Court for further proceedings consistent with this decision. In January 2008, the Oregon Supreme Court affirmed the Oregon Court of Appeals  June 2004 decision, which in turn, upheld the jury s compensatory damages
award and reinstated the jury s award of $79.5 million in punitive damages. In March 2008, PM USA filed a petition for  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court, which was granted in June 2008. In March 2009, the United
States Supreme Court dismissed the  writ of certiorari  as being improvidently granted. Subsequent to the United States Supreme Court s dismissal, PM USA paid $61.1 million to the plaintiffs, representing the compensatory damages award,
forty percent of the punitive damages award and accrued interest. Oregon state law requires that sixty percent of any punitive damages award be paid to the state. However, PM USA believes that, as a result of the Master Settlement Agreement
( MSA ), it is not liable for the sixty percent that would be paid to the state. Oregon and PM USA are parties to a proceeding in Oregon state court that seeks a determination of PM USA s liability for that sixty percent. If PM USA
prevails, its obligation to pay punitive damages will be limited to the forty percent previously paid to the plaintiff. The court has consolidated that MSA proceeding with  Williams , where plaintiff seeks to challenge the constitutionality of
the Oregon statute apportioning the punitive damages award and claims that any punitive damages award released by the state reverts to plaintiff. In February 2010, the trial court ruled that the state is not entitled to collect its sixty
percent share of the punitive damages award. In June 2010, after hearing argument, the trial court held that, under the Oregon statute, PM USA is not required to pay the sixty percent share to plaintiff. In October 2010, the trial court rejected
plaintiff s argument that the Oregon statute regarding allocation of punitive damages is unconstitutional. The combined effect of these rulings is that PM USA would not be required to pay the state s sixty percent share of the
punitive damages award. Both the plaintiff in  Williams  and the state appealed these rulings to the Oregon Court of Appeals. On its own motion, the Oregon Court of Appeals on December 15, 2010, certified the appeals to the Oregon Supreme
Court, and on December 16, 2010, the Oregon Supreme Court accepted certification. PM USA has asked the Oregon Supreme Court to reconsider its decision to accept certification of the case.      
           
   Security for Judgments          
  To obtain stays of judgments pending current appeals, as of February 18, 2011, PM USA has posted various forms of security totaling
approximately $46 million, the majority of which has been collateralized with cash deposits that are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.   
         Engle Class Action             In July 2000, in the second phase of the  Engle  smoking and health class action in Florida, a jury returned a
verdict assessing punitive damages totaling approximately $145 billion against various defendants, including $74 billion against PM USA. Following entry of judgment, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of $100 million and appealed.   
        In May 2001, the trial court approved a stipulation providing that
execution of the punitive damages component of the  Engle  judgment will remain stayed against PM USA and the other participating defendants through the completion of all judicial review. As a result of the stipulation, PM USA placed $500
million into a separate interest-bearing escrow account that, regardless of the outcome of the judicial review, will be paid to the court and the court will determine how to allocate or distribute it consistent with Florida Rules of Civil Procedure.
In July 2001, PM USA also placed $1.2 billion into an interest-bearing escrow account, which was returned to PM USA in December 2007. In   
         -29-   

Table of Contents  

addition, the $100 million bond related to the case has been discharged. In connection with the stipulation, PM USA recorded a $500 million pre-tax charge in its consolidated statement of
earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2001. In May 2003, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal reversed the judgment entered by the trial court and instructed the trial court to order the decertification of the class. Plaintiffs
petitioned the Florida Supreme Court for further review.            In
July 2006, the Florida Supreme Court ordered that the punitive damages award be vacated, that the class approved by the trial court be decertified, and that members of the decertified class could file individual actions against defendants within one
year of issuance of the mandate. The court further declared the following Phase I findings are entitled to  res judicata  effect in such individual actions brought within one year of the issuance of the mandate: (i) that smoking causes
various diseases; (ii) that nicotine in cigarettes is addictive; (iii) that defendants  cigarettes were defective and unreasonably dangerous; (iv) that defendants concealed or omitted material information not otherwise known or
available knowing that the material was false or misleading or failed to disclose a material fact concerning the health effects or addictive nature of smoking; (v) that defendants agreed to misrepresent information regarding the health effects
or addictive nature of cigarettes with the intention of causing the public to rely on this information to their detriment; (vi) that defendants agreed to conceal or omit information regarding the health effects of cigarettes or their addictive
nature with the intention that smokers would rely on the information to their detriment; (vii) that all defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that were defective; and (viii) that defendants were negligent. The court also reinstated
compensatory damages awards totaling approximately $6.9 million to two individual plaintiffs and found that a third plaintiff s claim was barred by the statute of limitations. In February 2008, PM USA paid a total of $2,964,685, which
represents its share of compensatory damages and interest to the two individual plaintiffs identified in the Florida Supreme Court s order.         
  In August 2006, PM USA sought rehearing from the Florida Supreme Court on parts of its July 2006 opinion, including the ruling (described above)
that certain jury findings have  res judicata  effect in subsequent individual trials timely brought by  Engle  class members. The rehearing motion also asked, among other things, that legal errors that were raised but not expressly ruled
upon in the Third District Court of Appeal or in the Florida Supreme Court now be addressed. Plaintiffs also filed a motion for rehearing in August 2006 seeking clarification of the applicability of the statute of limitations to non-members of the
decertified class. In December 2006, the Florida Supreme Court refused to revise its July 2006 ruling, except that it revised the set of Phase I findings entitled to  res judicata  effect by excluding finding (v) listed above (relating to
agreement to misrepresent information), and added the finding that defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that, at the time of sale or supply, did not conform to the representations of fact made by defendants. In January 2007, the Florida Supreme
Court issued the mandate from its revised opinion. Defendants then filed a motion with the Florida Third District Court of Appeal requesting that the court address legal errors that were previously raised by defendants but have not yet been
addressed either by the Third District Court of Appeal or by the Florida Supreme Court. In February 2007, the Third District Court of Appeal denied defendants  motion. In May 2007, defendants  motion for a partial stay of the mandate
pending the completion of appellate review was denied by the Third District Court of Appeal. In May 2007, defendants filed a petition for  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court. In October 2007, the United States Supreme
Court denied defendants  petition. In November 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petition for rehearing from the denial of their petition for  writ of certiorari .   
        The deadline for filing  Engle  progeny cases, as required by the
Florida Supreme Court s decision, expired in January 2008. As of February 18, 2011, approximately 7,223 cases (3,284 state court cases and 3,939 federal court cases) were pending against PM USA or Altria Group, Inc. asserting individual
claims by or on behalf of approximately 8,890 plaintiffs (4,952 state court plaintiffs and 3,938 federal court plaintiffs). It is possible that some of these cases are duplicates. Some of these cases have been removed from various Florida state
courts to the federal district courts in Florida, while others were filed   
         -30-   

Table of Contents  

in federal court. In July 2007, PM USA and other defendants requested that the multi-district litigation panel order the transfer of all such cases pending in the federal courts, as well as any
other  Engle  progeny cases that may be filed, to the Middle District of Florida for pretrial coordination. The panel denied this request in December 2007. In October 2007, attorneys for plaintiffs filed a motion to consolidate all pending and
future cases filed in the state trial court in Hillsborough County. The court denied this motion in November 2007. In February 2008, the trial court decertified the class except for purposes of the May 2001 bond stipulation, and formally vacated the
punitive damages award pursuant to the Florida Supreme Court s mandate. In April 2008, the trial court ruled that certain defendants, including PM USA, lacked standing with respect to allocation of the funds escrowed under the May 2001 bond
stipulation and will receive no credit at this time from the $500 million paid by PM USA against any future punitive damages awards in cases brought by former  Engle  class members.            In May 2008, the trial court, among other things, decertified the limited class maintained for purposes of the May 2001
bond stipulation and, in July 2008, severed the remaining plaintiffs  claims except for those of Howard Engle. The only remaining plaintiff in the  Engle  case, Howard Engle, voluntarily dismissed his claims with prejudice. In July 2008,
attorneys for a putative former  Engle  class member petitioned the Florida Supreme Court to permit members of the  Engle  class additional time to file individual lawsuits. The Florida Supreme Court denied this petition in January 2009.
            Federal Engle Progeny Cases    
        Three federal district courts (in the  Merlob ,  Brown  and
 Burr  cases) ruled that the findings in the first phase of the  Engle  proceedings cannot be used to satisfy elements of plaintiffs  claims, and two of those rulings ( Brown  and  Burr ) were certified by the trial court
for interlocutory review. The certification in both cases was granted by the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit and the appeals were consolidated. In February 2009, the appeal in  Burr  was dismissed for lack of
prosecution. In July 2010, the Eleventh Circuit ruled that plaintiffs do not have an unlimited right to use the findings from the original  Engle  trial to meet their burden of establishing the elements of their claims at trial. Rather,
plaintiffs may only use the findings to establish those specific facts, if any, that they demonstrate with a reasonable degree of certainty were actually decided by the original  Engle  jury. The Eleventh Circuit remanded the case to the
district court to determine what specific factual findings the  Engle  jury actually made.  Engle  progeny cases pending in the federal district courts in the Middle District of Florida asserting individual claims by or on behalf of
approximately 4,420 plaintiffs had been stayed pending the Eleventh Circuit s review. On December 22, 2010, stays were lifted in 12 cases selected by plaintiffs, and notices of voluntary dismissals of approximately 500 cases have been
granted. The remaining cases are currently stayed.             Florida Bond Cap
Statute             In June 2009, Florida amended its existing
bond cap statute by adding a $200 million bond cap that applies to all  Engle  progeny lawsuits in the aggregate and establishes individual bond caps for individual  Engle  progeny cases in amounts that vary depending on the number of
judgments in effect at a given time. The legislation, which became effective in June 2009, applies to judgments entered after the effective date and remains in effect until December 31, 2012. Plaintiffs in three  Engle  progeny cases
against R.J. Reynolds in Alachua County, Florida ( Alexander ,  Townsend  and  Hall ) and one case in Escambia County ( Clay ) have challenged the constitutionality of the bond cap statute. The Florida Attorney General has
intervened in these cases in defense of the constitutionality of the statute. Argument in these cases was heard in September 2010. Plaintiffs in one  Engle  progeny case against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds in Hillsborough County ( Douglas )
have also challenged the constitutionality of the bond cap statute. On January 4, 2011, the trial court in Escambia County rejected plaintiffs  bond cap statute challenge and declared the statute constitutional in the  Clay  case.
  
         -31-   

Table of Contents  

    Engle Progeny Trial Results    
        As of February 24, 2011, twenty  Engle  progeny cases
involving PM USA have resulted in verdicts since the Florida Supreme Court  Engle  decision. Eleven verdicts (see  Hess, Barbanell, F. Campbell, Naugle, Douglas ,  R. Cohen, Putney, Tate, Piendle,   Hatziyannakis  and
 Huish  descriptions in the table above) were returned in favor of plaintiffs and nine verdicts were returned in favor of PM USA ( Gelep, Kalyvas, Gil de Rubio, Warrick, Willis, Frazier, C. Campbell, Rohr  and  Espinosa ).
 Engle  progeny trial results adverse to PM USA are included in the totals provided in  Trial Results  above. In addition, there have been a number of mistrials, only some of which have resulted in new trials as of February 24, 2011.
           In  Lukacs , a case that was tried to verdict before
the Florida Supreme Court  Engle  decision and is described in  Trial Results  above, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal in March 2010 affirmed  per curiam  the trial court decision without issuing an opinion. Under Florida
procedure, further review of a  per curiam  affirmance without opinion by the Florida Supreme Court is generally prohibited. In April 2010, defendants filed their petition for rehearing with the Court of Appeal. In May 2010, the Court of Appeal
denied the defendants  petition. The defendants paid the judgment in June 2010.            In May 2010, the jury returned a verdict in favor of PM USA in the  Gil de Rubio  case. In June 2010, plaintiff filed a motion for a new trial.            In October 2010, juries in five  Engle  progeny cases ( Warrick ,  Willis ,  Frazier ,  C.
Campbell  and  Rohr ) returned verdicts in favor of PM USA. The  Warrick, Willis  and  C. Campbell  cases have concluded.         
  On November 12, 2010, the jury in the  Espinosa  case returned a verdict in favor of PM USA. Plaintiff initially noticed an appeal but on
February 9, 2011 voluntarily dismissed his appeal.             Appeals of Engle
Progeny Verdicts             Plaintiffs in various  Engle 
progeny cases have appealed adverse rulings or verdicts, and in some cases, PM USA has cross-appealed. PM USA s appeals of adverse verdicts are discussed in  Trial Results  above.            On December 14, 2010, in a case against R.J. Reynolds in Escambia County ( Martin ), the Florida First District
Court of Appeals issued the first ruling by a Florida intermediate appellate court to substantively address the  Brown  decision of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, affirming the final judgment entered in
plaintiff s favor imposing both compensatory and punitive damages. The panel held that the trial court correctly construed the Florida Supreme Court s 2006 decision in  Engle  in instructing the jury on the preclusive effect of the
first phase of the  Engle  proceedings, expressly disagreeing with certain aspects of the  Brown  decision. On February 11, 2011, the district court of appeals denied R.J. Reynolds  request for  en banc  review and
certification of the appeal to the Florida Supreme Court.             Scott Class
Action             In July 2003, following the first phase of the
trial in the  Scott  class action, in which plaintiffs sought creation of a fund to pay for medical monitoring and smoking cessation programs, a Louisiana jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants, including PM USA, in connection with
plaintiffs  medical monitoring claims, but also found that plaintiffs could benefit from smoking cessation assistance. The jury also found that cigarettes as designed are not defective but that the defendants failed to disclose
  
         -32-   

Table of Contents  

all they knew about smoking and diseases and marketed their products to minors. In May 2004, in the second phase of the trial, the jury awarded plaintiffs approximately $590 million against all
defendants, jointly and severally, to fund a 10-year smoking cessation program.            In June 2004, the court entered judgment, which awarded plaintiffs the approximately $590 million jury award plus prejudgment interest accruing from the date the suit commenced. PM USA s share of the jury
award and prejudgment interest has not been allocated. Defendants, including PM USA, appealed. Pursuant to a stipulation of the parties, the trial court entered an order setting the amount of the bond at $50 million for all defendants in accordance
with an article of the Louisiana Code of Civil Procedure, and a Louisiana statute (the  bond cap law ), fixing the amount of security in civil cases involving a signatory to the MSA. Under the terms of the stipulation, plaintiffs reserve
the right to contest, at a later date, the sufficiency or amount of the bond on any grounds including the applicability or constitutionality of the bond cap law. In September 2004, defendants collectively posted a bond in the amount of $50 million
($12.5 million of which was posted by PM USA).            In February
2007, the Louisiana Fourth Circuit Court of Appeal issued a ruling on defendants  appeal that, among other things: affirmed class certification but limited the scope of the class; struck certain of the categories of damages included in the
judgment, reducing the amount of the award by approximately $312 million; vacated the award of prejudgment interest, which totaled approximately $444 million as of February 15, 2007; and ruled that the only class members who are eligible to
participate in the smoking cessation program are those who began smoking before, and whose claims accrued by, September 1, 1988. As a result, the Louisiana Court of Appeal remanded the case for proceedings consistent with its opinion, including
further reduction of the amount of the award based on the size of the new class. In March 2007, the Louisiana Court of Appeal rejected defendants  motion for rehearing and clarification. In January 2008, the Louisiana Supreme Court denied
plaintiffs  and defendants  petitions for  writ of certiorari . In March 2008, plaintiffs filed a motion to execute the approximately $279 million judgment plus post-judgment interest or, in the alternative, for an order to the
parties to submit revised damages figures. Defendants filed a motion to have judgment entered in favor of defendants based on accrual of all class member claims after September 1, 1988 or, in the alternative, for the entry of a case management
order. In April 2008, the Louisiana Supreme Court denied defendants  motion to stay proceedings and the defendants filed a petition for  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court. In June 2008, the United States Supreme
Court denied the defendants  petition. Plaintiffs filed a motion to enter judgment in the amount of approximately $280 million (subsequently changed to approximately $264 million) and defendants filed a motion to enter judgment in their favor
dismissing the case entirely or, alternatively, to enter a case management order for a new trial. In July 2008, the trial court entered an Amended Judgment and Reasons for Judgment denying both motions, but ordering defendants to deposit into the
registry of the court the sum of $263,532,762 plus post-judgment interest.            In September 2008, defendants filed an application for  writ of mandamus  or  supervisory writ  to secure the right to appeal with the Louisiana Fourth Circuit Court of Appeal, and in December 2008, the
trial court entered an order permitting the appeal and approving a $50 million bond for all defendants in accordance with the Louisiana bond cap law discussed above. In April 2009, plaintiffs filed a cross-appeal seeking to reinstate the June 2004
judgment and to award the medical monitoring rejected by the jury.            In April 2010, the Louisiana Fourth Circuit Court of Appeal issued a decision that affirmed in part prior decisions ordering the defendants to fund a statewide 10-year smoking cessation program. In its decision,
the Court of Appeal amended and, as amended, affirmed the amended 2008 trial court judgment and ruled that, although the trial court erred, the defendants have no right to a trial to determine, among other things, those class members with valid
claims not barred by Louisiana law. After conducting its own independent review of the record, the Court of Appeal made its own factual   
         -33-   

Table of Contents  

findings with respect to liability and the amount owed, lowering the amount of the judgment to approximately $241 million, plus interest commencing July 21, 2008, the date of entry of the
amended judgment (which as of December 31, 2010 is approximately $32 million). In its decision, the Court of Appeal disallowed approximately $80 million in post-judgment interest. In addition, the Court of Appeal declined plaintiffs  cross
appeal requests for a medical monitoring program and reinstatement of other components of the smoking cessation program. The Court of Appeal specifically reserved to the defendants the right to assert claims to any unspent or unused surplus funds at
the termination of the smoking cessation program. In June 2010, defendants and plaintiffs filed separate  writ of certiorari  applications with the Louisiana Supreme Court. The Louisiana Supreme Court denied both sides  applications. In
September 2010, upon defendants  application, the United States Supreme Court granted a stay of the judgment pending the defendants  filing and the Court s disposition of the defendants  petition for a  writ of certiorari .
The defendants  filed their petition for a  writ of certiorari  on December 2, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, PM USA has recorded a provision of $26 million in connection with the case and has recorded additional provisions of
approximately $3.4 million related to accrued interest.         
   Smoking and Health Litigation          
   Overview          
  Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in smoking and health cases are based on various theories of recovery, including negligence, gross
negligence, strict liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, nuisance, breach of express and implied warranties, breach of special duty, conspiracy, concert of action, violations of deceptive trade practice laws and
consumer protection statutes, and claims under the federal and state anti-racketeering statutes. Plaintiffs in the smoking and health actions seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and punitive damages, treble/multiple damages and
other statutory damages and penalties, creation of medical monitoring and smoking cessation funds, disgorgement of profits, and injunctive and equitable relief. Defenses raised in these cases include lack of proximate cause, assumption of the risk,
comparative fault and/or contributory negligence, statutes of limitations and preemption by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act.         
  In July 2008, the New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Department in  Fabiano , an individual personal injury case, held
that plaintiffs  punitive damages claim was barred by the MSA based on principles of  res judicata  because the New York Attorney General had already litigated the punitive damages claim on behalf of all New York residents. In May
2010, the New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division, Second Department, adopted the reasoning of the First Department in  Fabiano  and issued a  per curiam  opinion affirming separate trial court rulings dismissing plaintiffs 
punitive damages claims in  Shea  and  Tomasino , two individual personal injury cases.             Smoking and Health Class Actions             Since the dismissal in May 1996 of a purported nationwide class action brought on behalf of allegedly addicted smokers, plaintiffs have filed numerous putative smoking and health class action suits in various state
and federal courts. In general, these cases purport to be brought on behalf of residents of a particular state or states (although a few cases purport to be nationwide in scope) and raise addiction claims and, in many cases, claims of physical
injury as well.            Class certification has been denied or
reversed by courts in 58 smoking and health class actions involving PM USA in Arkansas (1), the District of Columbia (2), Florida (2), Illinois (3), Iowa (1), Kansas (1), Louisiana (1), Maryland (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (1), Nevada (29), New
Jersey (6), New York (2), Ohio (1), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (1), Puerto Rico (1), South Carolina (1), Texas (1) and Wisconsin (1).   
         -34-   

Table of Contents  

   PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. are named as defendants, along with other cigarette manufacturers, in
six actions filed in the Canadian provinces of Alberta, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Saskatchewan and British Columbia. In Saskatchewan and British Columbia, plaintiffs seek class certification on behalf of individuals who suffer or have suffered from
various diseases including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, emphysema, heart disease or cancer after smoking defendants  cigarettes. In the actions filed in Alberta, Manitoba and Nova Scotia, plaintiffs seek certification of classes of
all individuals who smoked defendants  cigarettes. See   Guarantees   for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco
products.             Medical Monitoring Class Actions    
        A class remains certified in the  Scott  class action discussed
above. Four other purported medical monitoring class actions are pending against PM USA. These cases have been brought in New York ( Caronia , filed in January 2006 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York),
Massachusetts ( Donovan , filed in December 2006 in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts), California ( Xavier , filed in May 2010 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California),
and Florida ( Gargano , filed on November 9, 2010 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida) on behalf of each state s respective residents who: are age 50 or older; have smoked the  Marlboro  brand
for 20 pack-years or more; and have neither been diagnosed with lung cancer nor are under investigation by a physician for suspected lung cancer. Plaintiffs in these cases seek to impose liability under various product-based causes of action and the
creation of a court-supervised program providing members of the purported class Low Dose CT Scanning in order to identify and diagnose lung cancer. Plaintiffs in these cases do not seek punitive damages.   
        In  Caronia , in February 2010, the district court granted in
part PM USA s summary judgment motion, dismissing plaintiffs  strict liability and negligence claims and certain other claims, granted plaintiffs leave to amend their complaint to allege a medical monitoring cause of action and requested
further briefing on PM USA s summary judgment motion as to plaintiffs  implied warranty claim and, if plaintiffs amend their complaint, their medical monitoring claim. In March 2010, plaintiffs filed their amended complaint and PM USA
moved to dismiss the implied warranty and medical monitoring claims. On January 13, 2011, the district court granted PM USA s motion, dismissed plaintiffs  claims and declared plaintiffs  motion for class certification moot in
light of the dismissal of the case. The plaintiffs have filed a notice of appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.         
  In  Donovan , the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in answering questions certified to it by the district court, held in October 2009
that under certain circumstances state law recognizes a claim by individual smokers for medical monitoring despite the absence of an actual injury. The court also ruled that whether or not the case is barred by the applicable statute of limitations
is a factual issue to be determined by the trial court. The case was remanded to federal court for further proceedings. In June 2010, the district court granted in part the plaintiffs  motion for class certification, certifying the class as to
plaintiffs  claims for breach of implied warranty and violation of the Massachusetts Consumer Protection Act, but denying certification as to plaintiffs  negligence claim. In July 2010, PM USA petitioned the United States Court of Appeals
for the First Circuit for appellate review of the class certification decision. The petition was denied in September 2010. Trial has been set for August 1, 2011.   
        In  Xavier , in October 2010, the trial court granted PM
USA s motion to dismiss plaintiffs  unfair competition claim and independent medical monitoring cause of action. On February 10, 2011, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification. Argument on this motion is set for
March 31, 2011. Although a class has not yet been certified, trial has been set for November 14, 2011.   
         -35-   

Table of Contents  

   In  Gargano , PM USA filed a motion to dismiss on December 20, 2010. On January 18,
2011, plaintiff filed an amended complaint with the trial court s permission. On February 14, 2011, PM USA filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint.   
        Another purported class action ( Calistro ) was filed in July 2010
in the United States District Court for the District of the Virgin Islands, Division of St. Thomas   St. John. Altria Group, Inc. was voluntarily dismissed from the case by the plaintiffs in August 2010. In September 2010, plaintiffs
voluntarily dismissed without prejudice their claims against all defendants except PM USA. Plaintiffs filed a motion to stay and transfer the case to the  Lights  multidistrict litigation proceeding discussed below. Following the
plaintiffs  amendment of their complaint to assert only  Lights  economic loss claims and to eliminate all medical monitoring claims, the case was transferred to the multidistrict  Lights  proceedings discussed below.
            Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation    
         Overview    
        In health care cost recovery litigation, governmental entities and
non-governmental plaintiffs seek reimbursement of health care cost expenditures allegedly caused by tobacco products and, in some cases, of future expenditures and damages as well. Relief sought by some but not all plaintiffs includes punitive
damages, multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, injunctions prohibiting alleged marketing and sales to minors, disclosure of research, disgorgement of profits, funding of anti-smoking programs, additional disclosure of nicotine
yields, and payment of attorney and expert witness fees.         
  The claims asserted include the claim that cigarette manufacturers were  unjustly enriched  by plaintiffs  payment of health care
costs allegedly attributable to smoking, as well as claims of indemnity, negligence, strict liability, breach of express and implied warranty, violation of a voluntary undertaking or special duty, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, conspiracy,
public nuisance, claims under federal and state statutes governing consumer fraud, antitrust, deceptive trade practices and false advertising, and claims under federal and state anti-racketeering statutes.   
        Defenses raised include lack of proximate cause, remoteness of injury,
failure to state a valid claim, lack of benefit, adequate remedy at law,  unclean hands  (namely, that plaintiffs cannot obtain equitable relief because they participated in, and benefited from, the sale of cigarettes), lack of antitrust
standing and injury, federal preemption, lack of statutory authority to bring suit, and statutes of limitations. In addition, defendants argue that they should be entitled to  set off  any alleged damages to the extent the plaintiffs
benefit economically from the sale of cigarettes through the receipt of excise taxes or otherwise. Defendants also argue that these cases are improper because plaintiffs must proceed under principles of subrogation and assignment. Under traditional
theories of recovery, a payor of medical costs (such as an insurer) can seek recovery of health care costs from a third party solely by  standing in the shoes  of the injured party. Defendants argue that plaintiffs should be required to
bring any actions as subrogees of individual health care recipients and should be subject to all defenses available against the injured party.         
  Although there have been some decisions to the contrary, most judicial decisions have dismissed all or most health care cost recovery claims against
cigarette manufacturers. Nine federal circuit courts of appeals and eight state appellate courts, relying primarily on grounds that plaintiffs  claims were too remote, have ordered or affirmed dismissals of health care cost recovery actions.
The United States Supreme Court has refused to consider plaintiffs  appeals from the cases decided by five circuit courts of appeals.   
         -36-   

Table of Contents  

   In March 1999, in the first health care cost recovery case to go to trial, an Ohio jury returned a
verdict in favor of defendants on all counts. In addition, a $17.8 million verdict against defendants (including $6.8 million against PM USA) was reversed in a health care cost recovery case in New York, and all claims were dismissed with prejudice
in February 2005 ( Blue Cross/Blue Shield ).            In the
health care cost recovery case brought by the City of St. Louis, Missouri and approximately 40 Missouri hospitals, in which PM USA, USSTC and Altria Group, Inc. are defendants ( City of St. Louis ), the trial court in July 2010, granted
defendants  motion for summary judgment with respect to certain of plaintiffs  claims on the grounds that they were preempted. The court had earlier denied a number of other summary judgment motions by defendants and denied
plaintiffs  motion for summary judgment claiming collateral estoppel from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see  Federal Government s Lawsuit  described below). The court also had previously granted
defendants  motion for partial summary judgment on plaintiffs  claim for future damages (although on November 29, 2010, the trial court ruled that the damages period for the case would extend through December 31, 2010). In
September 2010, the trial court denied several of defendants  summary judgment motions, but granted defendants  motion seeking to prevent plaintiffs from recovering the  present value  of their damages, which are alleged to
amount to approximately $300 million. In October 2010, the trial court granted defendants summary judgment with respect to plaintiffs  fraud and negligent misrepresentation claims. Trial began on January 10, 2011.   
        Individuals and associations have also sued in purported class actions
or as private attorneys general under the Medicare as Secondary Payer ( MSP ) provisions of the Social Security Act to recover from defendants Medicare expenditures allegedly incurred for the treatment of smoking-related diseases. Cases
brought in New York ( Mason ), Florida ( Glover ) and Massachusetts ( United Seniors Association ) have been dismissed by federal courts. In April 2008, an action,  National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare,
et al. v. Philip Morris USA, et al.  (  National Committee I  ), was brought under the MSP statute in the Circuit Court of the Eleventh Judicial Circuit of and for Miami County, Florida, but was dismissed voluntarily in May
2008. The action purported to be brought on behalf of Medicare to recover an unspecified amount of damages equal to double the amount paid by Medicare for smoking-related health care services provided from April 19, 2002 to the present.
           In May 2008, an action,  National Committee to Preserve
Social Security, et al. v. Philip Morris USA, et al. , was brought under the MSP statute in United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. This action was brought by the same plaintiffs as  National Committee I  and
similarly purports to be brought on behalf of Medicare to recover an unspecified amount of damages equal to double the amount paid by Medicare for smoking-related health care services provided from May 21, 2002 to the present. In July 2008,
defendants filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs  claims and plaintiffs filed a motion for partial summary judgment. In March 2009, the court granted defendants  motion to dismiss. Plaintiffs noticed an appeal in May 2009. In February 2010,
defendants moved to dismiss the individual plaintiff s appeal. In October 2010, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit dismissed plaintiffs  complaint for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. The plaintiffs subsequently
filed a petition for rehearing  en banc  with the Court of Appeals, which petition was denied on November 22, 2010. On December 22, 2010, the district court entered an order dismissing the case. Plaintiffs have advised that they will
not seek further review of the decision.            In addition to the
cases brought in the United States, health care cost recovery actions have also been brought against tobacco industry participants, including PM USA and Altria Group, Inc., in Israel (1), the Marshall Islands (dismissed), and Canada (3), and
other entities have stated that they are considering filing such actions. In the case in Israel, the defendants  appeal of the district court s denial of their motion to dismiss was heard by the Israel Supreme Court in March 2005, and the
parties are awaiting the court s decision. In September 2005, in the first of the three health care cost recovery cases filed in Canada, the Canadian Supreme Court ruled that legislation passed in British Columbia
  
         -37-   

Table of Contents  

permitting the lawsuit is constitutional, and, as a result, the case, which had previously been dismissed by the trial court, was permitted to proceed. PM USA s and other defendants 
challenge to the British Columbia court s exercise of jurisdiction was rejected by the Court of Appeals of British Columbia and, in April 2007, the Supreme Court of Canada denied review of that decision. In December 2009, the Court of
Appeals of British Columbia ruled that certain defendants can proceed against the Federal Government of Canada as third parties on the theory that the Federal Government of Canada negligently misrepresented to defendants the efficacy of a low tar
tobacco variety that the Federal Government of Canada developed and licensed to defendants. In May 2010, the Supreme Court of Canada granted leave to the Federal Government of Canada to appeal this decision and leave to defendants to cross-appeal
the Court of Appeals  decision to dismiss claims against the Federal Government of Canada based on other theories of liability. The Supreme Court of Canada is scheduled to hear the appeal on or about February 24, 2011. During 2008, the
Province of New Brunswick, Canada, proclaimed into law previously adopted legislation allowing reimbursement claims to be brought against cigarette manufacturers, and it filed suit shortly thereafter. In September 2009, the Province of Ontario,
Canada, filed suit against a number of cigarette manufacturers based on previously adopted legislation nearly identical in substance to the New Brunswick health care cost recovery legislation. PM USA is named as a defendant in the British Columbia
case, while Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA are named as defendants in the New Brunswick and Ontario cases. Several other provinces and territories in Canada have enacted similar legislation or are in the process of enacting similar legislation. See
  Guarantees   for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products.   
         Settlements of Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation    
        In November 1998, PM USA and certain other United States tobacco
product manufacturers entered into the MSA with 46 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa and the Northern Marianas to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other
claims. PM USA and certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (together with the MSA, the  State Settlement Agreements ). The State
Settlement Agreements require that the original participating manufacturers make substantial annual payments of approximately $9.4 billion each year, subject to adjustments for several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume.
In addition, the original participating manufacturers are required to pay settling plaintiffs  attorneys  fees, subject to an annual cap of $500 million. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the aggregate
amount recorded in cost of sales with respect to the State Settlement Agreements and the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ( FETRA ) was approximately $4.8 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively.   
        The State Settlement Agreements also include provisions relating to
advertising and marketing restrictions, public disclosure of certain industry documents, limitations on challenges to certain tobacco control and underage use laws, restrictions on lobbying activities and other provisions.   
         Possible Adjustments in MSA Payments for 2003 to 2009    
        Pursuant to the provisions of the MSA, domestic tobacco product
manufacturers, including PM USA, who are original signatories to the MSA (the  Original Participating Manufacturers  or  OPMs ) are participating in proceedings that may result in downward adjustments to the amounts paid by the
OPMs and the other MSA-participating manufacturers to the states and territories that are parties to the MSA for each of the years 2003 to 2009. The proceedings relate to an MSA payment adjustment (the  NPM Adjustment ) based on the
collective loss of market share for the relevant year by all   
         -38-   

Table of Contents  

participating manufacturers who are subject to the payment obligations and marketing restrictions of the MSA to non-participating manufacturers ( NPMs ) who are not subject to such
obligations and restrictions.            As part of these proceedings,
an independent economic consulting firm jointly selected by the MSA parties or otherwise selected pursuant to the MSA s provisions is required to determine whether the disadvantages of the MSA were a  significant factor  contributing
to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year in question. If the firm determines that the disadvantages of the MSA were such a  significant factor,  each state may avoid a downward adjustment to its
share of the participating manufacturers  annual payments for that year by establishing that it diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute during the entirety of that year. Any potential downward adjustment would then be reallocated to any
states that do not establish such diligent enforcement. PM USA believes that the MSA s arbitration clause requires a state to submit its claim to have diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute to binding arbitration before a panel of
three former federal judges in the manner provided for in the MSA. A number of states have taken the position that this claim should be decided in state court on a state-by-state basis.            In March 2006, an independent economic consulting firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant
factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2003. In February 2007, this same firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating
manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2004. In February 2008, the same economic consulting firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers 
collective loss of market share for the year 2005. A different economic consulting firm was selected to make the  significant factor  determination regarding the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the
year 2006. In March 2009, this firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2006. Following the firm s
determination for 2006, the OPMs and the states agreed that the states would not contest that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the years
2007, 2008 and 2009. Accordingly, the OPMs and the states have agreed that no  significant factor  determination by the firm will be necessary with respect to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the
years 2007, 2008 and 2009. This agreement became effective for 2007 and 2008 on February 1, 2010 and February 1, 2011, respectively, and will become effective for 2009 on February 1, 2012.   
        Following the economic consulting firm s determination with
respect to 2003, thirty-eight states filed declaratory judgment actions in state courts seeking a declaration that the state diligently enforced its escrow statute during 2003. The OPMs and other MSA-participating manufacturers responded to these
actions by filing motions to compel arbitration in accordance with the terms of the MSA, including filing motions to compel arbitration in eleven MSA states and territories that did not file declaratory judgment actions. Courts in all but one of the
forty-six MSA states and the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico have ruled that the question of whether a state diligently enforced its escrow statute during 2003 is subject to arbitration. One state court (in  State of Montana ) has ruled
that the diligent enforcement claims of that state may be litigated in state court, rather than in arbitration. Several of these rulings may be subject to further review. In January 2010, the OPMs filed a petition for a  writ of certiorari  in
the United States Supreme Court seeking further review of the one decision holding that a state s diligent enforcement claims may be litigated in state court, rather than in arbitration. The petition was denied in June 2010. Following the
denial of this petition, Montana renewed an action in its state court seeking a declaratory judgment that it diligently enforced its escrow statute during 2003 and other relief. The OPMs moved to stay that action and on January 28, 2011 the
state court granted the OPMs  motion.   
         -39-   

Table of Contents  

   PM USA, the other OPMs and approximately twenty-five other MSA-participating manufacturers have
entered into an agreement regarding arbitration with forty-five MSA states concerning the 2003 NPM Adjustment, including the states  claims of diligent enforcement for 2003. The agreement further provides for a partial liability reduction for
the 2003 NPM Adjustment for states that entered into the agreement by January 30, 2009 and are determined in the arbitration not to have diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute during 2003. Based on the number of states that entered
into the agreement by January 30, 2009 (forty-five), the partial liability reduction for those states is 20%. The partial liability reduction would reduce the amount of PM USA s 2003 NPM Adjustment by up to a corresponding percentage. The
selection of the arbitration panel for the 2003 NPM Adjustment was completed in July 2010, and the arbitration is currently ongoing. Proceedings to determine state diligent enforcement claims for the years 2004 through 2009 have not yet been
scheduled.            Once a significant factor determination in favor
of the participating manufacturers for a particular year has been made by the economic consulting firm, or the states  agreement not to contest significant factor for a particular year has become effective, PM USA has the right under the MSA to
pay the disputed amount of the NPM Adjustment for that year into a disputed payments account or withhold it altogether. To date, PM USA has made its full MSA payment each year to the states (subject to a right to recoup the NPM Adjustment amount in
the form of a credit against future MSA payments), even though it had the right to deduct the disputed amounts of the 2003   2007 NPM Adjustments, as described above, from its MSA payments due in the years 2006   2010, respectively. The
approximate maximum principal amounts of PM USA s share of the disputed NPM Adjustment for the years 2003 through 2009, as currently calculated by the MSA s Independent Auditor, are as follows (these amounts do not include interest, which
PM USA believes accrues at the prime rate from the payment date for the year for which the NPM Adjustment is calculated):         
          The foregoing amounts may be recalculated by the Independent Auditor if it receives information that is different from or in addition to the information on which it based these calculations, including, among other
things, if it receives revised sales volumes from any participating manufacturer. Disputes among the manufacturers could also reduce the foregoing amounts. The availability and the precise amount of any NPM Adjustment for 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006,
2007, 2008 and 2009 will not be finally determined until late 2011 or thereafter. There is no certainty that the OPMs and other MSA-participating manufacturers will ultimately receive any adjustment as a result of these proceedings, and the amount
of any adjustment received for a year could be less than the amount for that year listed above. If the OPMs do receive such an adjustment through these proceedings, the adjustment would be allocated among the OPMs pursuant to the MSA s
provisions, and PM USA would receive its share of any adjustments in the form of a credit against future MSA payments.         
   Other MSA-Related Litigation          
  PM USA was named as a defendant in an action ( Vibo ) brought in October 2008 in federal court in Kentucky by an MSA participating manufacturer
that is not an OPM. Other defendants include various other participating manufacturers and the Attorneys General of all 52 states and territories that are parties to the MSA. The plaintiff alleged that certain of the MSA s payment
provisions discriminate against it in favor of certain other participating manufacturers in violation of the federal antitrust laws and the United States Constitution. The plaintiff also sought injunctive relief, alteration of certain MSA
  
         -40-   

Table of Contents  

payment provisions as applied to it, treble damages under the federal antitrust laws, and/or rescission of its joinder in the MSA. The plaintiff also filed a motion for a preliminary injunction
enjoining the states from enforcing the allegedly discriminatory payment provisions against it during the pendency of the action. In January 2009, the district court dismissed the complaint and denied plaintiff s request for preliminary
injunctive relief. In January 2010, the court entered final judgment dismissing the case. Plaintiff has appealed this decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.            Without naming PM USA or any other private party as a defendant, NPMs and/or their distributors or customers have filed
several legal challenges to the MSA and related legislation. New York state officials are defendants in a lawsuit ( Freedom Holdings ) filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in which cigarette importers
allege that the MSA and/or related legislation violates federal antitrust laws and the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution. In a separate proceeding pending in the same court ( Pryor ), plaintiffs assert the same theories against
not only New York officials but also the Attorneys General for thirty other states. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has held that the allegations in both actions, if proven, establish a basis for relief on antitrust and
Commerce Clause grounds and that the trial courts in New York have personal jurisdiction sufficient to enjoin other states  officials from enforcing their MSA-related legislation. On remand in  Freedom Holdings , the trial court granted
summary judgment for the New York officials and lifted a preliminary injunction against New York officials  enforcement against plaintiffs of the state s  allocable share  amendment to the MSA s Model Escrow Statute. The
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed that decision in October 2010. Plaintiffs petitioned the United States Supreme Court for a  writ of certiorari  on January 20, 2011. On remand in  Pryor , the trial court
held that plaintiffs are unlikely to succeed on the merits and refused to enjoin the enforcement of New York s allocable share amendment to the MSA s Model Escrow Statute. That decision was affirmed by the United States Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit. The parties in that case have filed cross-motions for summary judgment, and the trial court heard oral argument on those motions in April 2010.   
        In another action ( Xcaliber ), the United States Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit reversed a trial court s dismissal of challenges to MSA-related legislation in Louisiana under the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution. On remand in that case, and in another case filed
against the Louisiana Attorney General ( S M Brands ), trial courts have granted summary judgment for the Louisiana Attorney General. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed those judgments in decisions issued in
July 2010 and August 2010. Plaintiffs in the  S M Brands  case filed a petition for a  writ of certiorari  in the United States Supreme Court on November 8, 2010.            In addition to the Second and Fifth Circuit decisions above, the United States Courts of Appeals for the Sixth, Eighth,
Ninth and Tenth Circuits have affirmed dismissals or grants of summary judgment in favor of state officials in four other cases asserting antitrust and constitutional challenges to the allocable share amendment legislation in those states.
           Another proceeding ( Grand River ) has been initiated
before an international arbitration tribunal under the provisions of the North American Free Trade Agreement. A hearing on the merits concluded in February 2010. On January 12, 2011, the arbitration tribunal rejected the claims against the
United States challenging MSA-related legislation in various states.         
   Federal Government s Lawsuit          
  In 1999, the United States government filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia against various cigarette
manufacturers, including PM USA, and others, including Altria Group, Inc. asserting claims under three federal statutes, namely the Medical Care Recovery Act ( MCRA ), the MSP provisions of the Social Security Act and the civil provisions
of RICO. Trial of the   
         -41-   

Table of Contents  

case ended in June 2005. The lawsuit sought to recover an unspecified amount of health care costs for tobacco-related illnesses allegedly caused by defendants  fraudulent and tortious
conduct and paid for by the government under various federal health care programs, including Medicare, military and veterans  health benefits programs, and the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. The complaint alleged that such costs
total more than $20 billion annually. It also sought what it alleged to be equitable and declaratory relief, including disgorgement of profits which arose from defendants  allegedly tortious conduct, an injunction prohibiting certain actions by
the defendants, and a declaration that the defendants are liable for the federal government s future costs of providing health care resulting from defendants  alleged past tortious and wrongful conduct. In September 2000, the trial court
dismissed the government s MCRA and MSP claims, but permitted discovery to proceed on the government s claims for relief under the civil provisions of RICO.   
        The government alleged that disgorgement by defendants of approximately
$280 billion is an appropriate remedy. In May 2004, the trial court issued an order denying defendants  motion for partial summary judgment limiting the disgorgement remedy. In February 2005, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia Circuit held that disgorgement is not a remedy available to the government under the civil provisions of RICO and entered summary judgment in favor of defendants with respect to the disgorgement claim. In April 2005, the
Court of Appeals denied the government s motion for rehearing. In July 2005, the government petitioned the United States Supreme Court for further review of the Court of Appeals  ruling that disgorgement is not an available remedy, and in
October 2005, the Supreme Court denied the petition.            In
June 2005, the government filed with the trial court its proposed final judgment seeking remedies of approximately $14 billion, including $10 billion over a five-year period to fund a national smoking cessation program and $4 billion over a ten-year
period to fund a public education and counter-marketing campaign. Further, the government s proposed remedy would have required defendants to pay additional monies to these programs if targeted reductions in the smoking rate of those under 21
are not achieved according to a prescribed timetable. The government s proposed remedies also included a series of measures and restrictions applicable to cigarette business operations including, but not limited to, restrictions on
advertising and marketing, potential measures with respect to certain price promotional activities and research and development, disclosure requirements for certain confidential data and implementation of a monitoring system with potential broad
powers over cigarette operations.            In August 2006, the
federal trial court entered judgment in favor of the government. The court held that certain defendants, including Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA, violated RICO and engaged in 7 of the 8  sub-schemes  to defraud that the government had
alleged. Specifically, the court found that:         

defendants falsely denied, distorted and minimized the significant adverse health consequences of smoking;      

defendants hid from the public that cigarette smoking and nicotine are addictive;            

defendants falsely denied that they control the level of nicotine delivered to create and sustain addiction;      

defendants falsely marketed and promoted  low tar/light  cigarettes as less harmful than full-flavor cigarettes;      

defendants falsely denied that they intentionally marketed to youth;      

defendants publicly and falsely denied that ETS is hazardous to non-smokers; and            

defendants suppressed scientific research.      
         -42-   

Table of Contents  

   The court did not impose monetary penalties on the defendants, but ordered the following relief:
(i) an injunction against  committing any act of racketeering  relating to the manufacturing, marketing, promotion, health consequences or sale of cigarettes in the United States; (ii) an injunction against participating directly
or indirectly in the management or control of the Council for Tobacco Research, the Tobacco Institute, or the Center for Indoor Air Research, or any successor or affiliated entities of each; (iii) an injunction against  making, or causing
to be made in any way, any material false, misleading, or deceptive statement or representation or engaging in any public relations or marketing endeavor that is disseminated to the United States public and that misrepresents or suppresses
information concerning cigarettes  (iv) an injunction against conveying any express or implied health message through use of descriptors on cigarette packaging or in cigarette advertising or promotional material, including
 lights,   ultra lights  and  low tar,  which the court found could cause consumers to believe one cigarette brand is less hazardous than another brand; (v) the issuance of  corrective statements  in
various media regarding the adverse health effects of smoking, the addictiveness of smoking and nicotine, the lack of any significant health benefit from smoking  low tar  or  light  cigarettes, defendants  manipulation of
cigarette design to ensure optimum nicotine delivery and the adverse health effects of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke; (vi) the disclosure on defendants  public document websites and in the Minnesota document repository of all
documents produced to the government in the lawsuit or produced in any future court or administrative action concerning smoking and health until 2021, with certain additional requirements as to documents withheld from production under a claim of
privilege or confidentiality; (vii) the disclosure of disaggregated marketing data to the government in the same form and on the same schedule as defendants now follow in disclosing such data to the Federal Trade Commission ( FTC )
for a period of ten years; (viii) certain restrictions on the sale or transfer by defendants of any cigarette brands, brand names, formulas or cigarette businesses within the United States; and (ix) payment of the government s costs
in bringing the action.            In September 2006, defendants filed
notices of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and in October 2006, a three judge panel of the Court of Appeals stayed the trial court s judgment pending its review of the decision. Certain
defendants, including PM USA and Altria Group, Inc., filed a motion to clarify the trial court s August 2006 Final Judgment and Remedial Order. In March 2007, the trial court denied in part and granted in part defendants  post-trial motion
for clarification of portions of the court s remedial order.            In May 2009, a three judge panel of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued a  per curiam  decision largely affirming the trial court s judgment against defendants and in favor of
the government. Although the panel largely affirmed the remedial order that was issued by the trial court, it vacated the following aspects of the order:         

its application to defendants  subsidiaries;            

the prohibition on the use of express or implied health messages or health descriptors, but only to the extent of extraterritorial application;

its point-of-sale display provisions; and            

its application to Brown   Williamson Holdings.      
        The Court of Appeals panel remanded the case for the trial court to
reconsider these four aspects of the injunction and to reformulate its remedial order accordingly.            Furthermore, the Court of Appeals panel rejected all of the government s and intervenors  cross appeal arguments and refused to broaden the remedial order entered by the trial court. The Court of Appeals
panel also left undisturbed its prior holding that the government cannot obtain disgorgement as a permissible remedy under RICO.   
         -43-   

Table of Contents  

   In July 2009, defendants filed petitions for a rehearing before the panel and for a rehearing by the
entire Court of Appeals. Defendants also filed a motion to vacate portions of the trial court s judgment on the grounds of mootness because of the passage of legislation granting FDA broad authority over the regulation of tobacco products. In
September 2009, the Court of Appeals entered three  per curiam  rulings. Two of them denied defendants  petitions for panel rehearing or for rehearing  en banc . In the third  per curiam  decision, the Court of Appeals denied
defendants  suggestion of mootness and motion for partial  vacatur . The Court of Appeals subsequently granted motions staying the issuance of its mandate pending the filing and disposition of petitions for  writs of certiorari  to
the United States Supreme Court. In February 2010, PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. filed their  certiorari  petitions with the United States Supreme Court. In addition, the federal government and the intervenors filed their own  certiorari 
petitions, asking the court to reverse an earlier Court of Appeals decision and hold that civil RICO allows the trial court to order disgorgement as well as other equitable relief, such as smoking cessation remedies, designed to redress continuing
consequences of prior RICO violations. In June 2010, the United States Supreme Court denied all of the parties  petitions. In July 2010, the Court of Appeals issued its mandate lifting the stay of the trial court s judgment and remanding
the case to the trial court.            As a result of the mandate,
except for those matters remanded to the trial court for further proceedings, defendants are now subject to the injunction discussed above and the other elements of the trial court s judgment. In September 2010, the trial court held a status
conference to hear the parties  preliminary views regarding the remaining issues to be addressed on remand. These issues include the placement and content of corrective communications, the exclusivity of the court s jurisdiction to enforce
the injunction, document coding and the maintenance of a document depository. A subsequent status conference was held on December 20, 2010. On December 22, 2010, the Court issued an order that, among other things: (1) ordered the
government to submit its proposed corrective statements by February 3, 2011; (2) ordered the parties to file a joint status report by February 3, 2011 regarding the degree to which they have reached agreement on a number of issues;
and (3) confirmed that the Council for Tobacco Research and the Tobacco Institute are dismissed from the case.         
  The defendants filed their joint status report on February 3, 2011. On February 4, 2011, the government submitted its proposed corrective
statements. PM USA intends to file its response to those statements by March 3, 2011.              Lights/Ultra Lights  Cases              Overview          
  Plaintiffs in certain pending matters seek certification of their cases as class actions and allege, among other things, that the uses of the terms
 Lights  and/or  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud, or RICO violations, and seek injunctive and equitable relief, including restitution and, in certain cases, punitive damages. These
class actions have been brought against PM USA and, in certain instances, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries, on behalf of individuals who purchased and consumed various brands of cigarettes, including  Marlboro Lights ,  Marlboro Ultra
Lights ,  Virginia Slims Lights  and  Superslims ,  Merit Lights  and  Cambridge Lights . Defenses raised in these cases include lack of misrepresentation, lack of causation, injury, and damages, the statute of limitations,
express preemption by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act ( FCLAA ) and implied preemption by the policies and directives of the FTC, non-liability under state statutory provisions exempting conduct that complies with
federal regulatory directives, and the First Amendment. As of February 18, 2011, a total of twenty-seven such cases were pending in the United States. Seventeen of these cases were pending in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in a single
U.S. federal court as discussed below. The other cases were pending in various U.S. state courts. In addition, a purported  Lights  class action is pending against PM USA in Israel. Other entities have stated that they are considering
filing such actions against Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA.   
         -44-   

Table of Contents  

   In the one  Lights  case pending in Israel, hearings on plaintiffs  motion for class
certification were held in November and December 2008. See  Guarantees  for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco
products.             The Good Case    
        In May 2006, a federal trial court in Maine granted PM USA s
motion for summary judgment in  Good , a purported  Lights  class action, on the grounds that plaintiffs  claims are preempted by the FCLAA and dismissed the case. In August 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the First
Circuit vacated the district court s grant of PM USA s motion for summary judgment on federal preemption grounds and remanded the case to district court. The district court stayed the case pending the United States Supreme Court s
ruling on defendants  petition for  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court, which was granted in January 2008. The case was stayed pending the United States Supreme Court s decision. In December 2008, the
United States Supreme Court ruled that plaintiffs  claims are not barred by federal preemption. Although the Court rejected the argument that the FTC s actions were so extensive with respect to the descriptors that the state law claims
were barred as a matter of federal law, the Court s decision was limited: it did not address the ultimate merits of plaintiffs  claim, the viability of the action as a class action, or other state law issues. The case has been returned to
the federal court in Maine for further proceedings and has been consolidated with other federal cases in the multidistrict litigation proceeding discussed below.   
         Certain Developments Since December 2008 Good Decision    
        Since the December 2008 United States Supreme Court decision in
 Good , and through February 18, 2011, twenty-four purported  Lights  class actions were served upon PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. These cases were filed in 14 states, the U.S. Virgin Islands and the District of Columbia. All of
these cases either were filed in federal court or were removed to federal court by PM USA.            A number of purported  Lights  class actions have been transferred and consolidated by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ( JPMDL ) before the United States District Court for the
District of Maine for pretrial proceedings ( MDL proceeding ). As of February 18, 2011, seventeen cases against Altria Group, Inc. and/or PM USA were pending in or awaiting transfer to the MDL proceeding. These cases, and the states
in which each originated, are:  Biundo  (Illinois),  Calistro  (U.S. Virgin Islands) (discussed above),  Corse  (Tennessee),  Domaingue  (New York),  Good  (Maine),  Haubrich  (Pennsylvania),  McClure  (Tennessee),
 Mirick  (Mississippi),  Mulford  (New Mexico),  Parsons  (District of Columbia),  Phillips  (Ohio),  Slater  (District of Columbia),  Tang  (New York),  Tyrer  (California),  Williams  (Arkansas) and
 Wyatt  (Wisconsin). On November 22, 2010, the district court in the MDL proceeding remanded the  Watson  case to Arkansas state court.         
  In November 2009, plaintiffs in the MDL proceeding filed a motion seeking collateral estoppel effect from the findings in the case brought by
the Department of Justice (see  Federal Government s Lawsuit  described above), which motion was denied in March 2010. In May 2010, July 2010 and September 2010, the district court denied all of PM USA s summary judgment motions.
On November 24, 2010, the district court denied plaintiffs  motion for class certification in four cases, covering the jurisdictions of California, the District of Columbia, Illinois and Maine. These jurisdictions were selected by the
parties as sample cases, with two selected by plaintiffs and two selected by defendants. Plaintiffs sought appellate review of this decision but on February 22, 2011, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit denied plaintiffs 
petition for leave to appeal.              Lights  Cases Dismissed, Not
Certified or Ordered De-Certified             To date, in addition
to the district court in the MDL proceeding, 15 courts in 16  Lights  cases have refused to certify class actions, dismissed class action allegations, reversed prior class certification decisions or have entered judgment in favor of PM
USA.   
         -45-   

Table of Contents  

   Trial courts in Arizona, Illinois, Kansas, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon, Tennessee and Washington
have refused to grant class certification or have dismissed plaintiffs  class action allegations. Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed a case in Michigan after a trial court dismissed the claims plaintiffs asserted under the Michigan Unfair Trade
and Consumer Protection Act.            Several appellate courts have
issued rulings that either affirmed rulings in favor of Altria Group, Inc. and/or PM USA or reversed rulings entered in favor of plaintiffs. In Florida, an intermediate appellate court overturned an order by a trial court that granted class
certification in  Hines . The Florida Supreme Court denied review in January 2008. The Supreme Court of Illinois has overturned a judgment that awarded damages to a certified class in the  Price  case. See  The Price Case  below for
further discussion. In Louisiana, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit dismissed a purported  Lights  class action brought in Louisiana federal court ( Sullivan ) on the grounds that plaintiffs  claims were
preempted by the FCLAA. In New York, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit overturned a decision by a New York trial court in  Schwab  that denied defendants  summary judgment motions and granted plaintiffs  motion
for certification of a nationwide class of all United States residents that purchased cigarettes in the United States that were labeled  Light  or  Lights.  In July 2010, plaintiffs in  Schwab  voluntarily dismissed the case
with prejudice. In Ohio, the Ohio Supreme Court overturned class certifications in the  Marrone  and  Phillips  cases. Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed both cases in August 2009. The Supreme Court of Washington denied a motion for
interlocutory review filed by the plaintiffs in the  Davies  case that sought review of an order by the trial court that refused to certify a class. Plaintiffs subsequently voluntarily dismissed the  Davies  case with prejudice. Plaintiffs
in the New Mexico case ( Mulford ) renewed their motion for class certification, which motion was denied by the federal district court in March 2009, with leave to file a new motion for class certification.   
        In Oregon ( Pearson ), a state court denied plaintiff s
motion for interlocutory review of the trial court s refusal to certify a class. In February 2007, PM USA filed a motion for summary judgment based on federal preemption and the Oregon statutory exemption. In September 2007, the district court
granted PM USA s motion based on express preemption under the FCLAA, and plaintiffs appealed this dismissal and the class certification denial to the Oregon Court of Appeals. Argument was held in April 2010.   
        In  Cleary , which was pending in an Illinois federal court, the
district court dismissed plaintiffs   Lights  claims against one defendant and denied plaintiffs  request to remand the case to state court. In September 2009, the court issued its ruling on PM USA s and the remaining
defendants  motion for summary judgment as to all  Lights  claims. The court granted the motion as to all defendants except PM USA. As to PM USA, the court granted the motion as to all  Lights  and other low tar brands other
than  Marlboro Lights . As to  Marlboro Lights , the court ordered briefing on why the 2002 state court order dismissing the  Marlboro Lights  claims should not be vacated based upon  Good . In January 2010, the court
vacated the previous dismissal. In February 2010, the court granted summary judgment in favor of defendants as to all claims except for the  Marlboro Lights  claims, based on the statute of limitations and deficiencies relating to the
named plaintiffs. In June 2010, the court granted summary judgment in favor of all defendants on all remaining claims, dismissing the case. In July 2010, plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration with the district court, which was denied. In
August 2010, plaintiffs filed an appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.             Other Developments          
  In December 2009, the state trial court in the  Holmes  case (pending in Delaware), denied PM USA s motion for summary judgment based
on an exemption provision in the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act.   
         -46-   

Table of Contents  

   In June 2007, the United States Supreme Court reversed the lower court rulings in the  Watson 
case that denied plaintiffs  motion to have the case heard in a state, as opposed to federal, trial court. The Supreme Court rejected defendant s contention that the case must be tried in federal court under the  federal officer 
statute. The case was removed to federal court in Arkansas and the case was transferred to the MDL proceeding discussed above. In October 2010, the JPMDL denied plaintiffs  motion to remand the case to state court and to vacate the transfer
order. As discussed above, on November 22, 2010, the district court in the MDL proceeding remanded the  Watson  case to Arkansas state court.         
   The Price Case          
  Trial in the  Price  case commenced in state court in Illinois in January 2003, and in March 2003, the judge found in favor of the plaintiff
class and awarded $7.1 billion in compensatory damages and $3 billion in punitive damages against PM USA. In connection with the judgment, PM USA deposited into escrow various forms of collateral, including cash and negotiable instruments. In
December 2005, the Illinois Supreme Court issued its judgment, reversing the trial court s judgment in favor of the plaintiffs and directing the trial court to dismiss the case. In May 2006, the Illinois Supreme Court denied plaintiffs 
motion for re-hearing; in November 2006, the United States Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  petition for  writ of certiorari  and, in December 2006, the Circuit Court of Madison County enforced the Illinois Supreme Court s mandate and
dismissed the case with prejudice. In January 2007, plaintiffs filed a motion to vacate or withhold judgment based upon the United States Supreme Court s grant of the petition for  writ of certiorari  in  Watson  (described above). In
May 2007, PM USA filed applications for a  writ of mandamus  or a supervisory order with the Illinois Supreme Court seeking an order compelling the lower courts to deny plaintiffs  motion to vacate and/or withhold judgment. In August 2007,
the Illinois Supreme Court granted PM USA s motion for supervisory order and the trial court dismissed plaintiffs  motion to vacate or withhold judgment. The collateral that PM USA deposited into escrow after the initial 2003 judgment was
released and returned to PM USA.            In December 2008,
plaintiffs filed with the trial court a petition for relief from the final judgment that was entered in favor of PM USA. Specifically, plaintiffs sought to vacate the 2005 Illinois Supreme Court judgment, contending that the United States Supreme
Court s December 2008 decision in  Good  demonstrated that the Illinois Supreme Court s decision was  inaccurate.  PM USA filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs  petition and, in February 2009, the trial court
granted PM USA s motion. In March 2009, the  Price  plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal with the Fifth Judicial District of the Appellate Court of Illinois. Argument was held in February 2010.   
        In June 2009, the plaintiff in an individual smoker lawsuit
( Kelly ) brought on behalf of an alleged smoker of  Lights  cigarettes in Madison County, Illinois state court filed a motion seeking a declaration that (1) his claims under the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act are not barred by the
exemption in that statute based on his assertion that the Illinois Supreme Court s decision in  Price  is no longer good law in light of the decisions by the United States Supreme Court in  Good  and  Watson , and (2) their
claims are not preempted in light of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good . In September 2009, the court granted plaintiff s motion as to federal preemption, but denied it with respect to the state statutory exemption.
            State Trial Court Class Certifications    
        State trial courts have certified classes against PM USA in
Massachusetts ( Aspinall ), Minnesota ( Curtis ), Missouri ( Larsen ) and New Hampshire ( Lawrence ). Significant developments in these cases include:   

Aspinall : In August 2004, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court affirmed the class certification order. In August 2006, the trial court denied PM
USA s motion for summary      
         -47-   

Table of Contents  

judgment and granted plaintiffs  motion for summary judgment on the defenses of federal preemption and a state law exemption to Massachusetts  consumer protection statute. On motion of
the parties, the trial court subsequently reported its decision to deny summary judgment to the appeals court for review and stayed further proceedings pending completion of the appellate review. In December 2008, subsequent to the United States
Supreme Court s decision in  Good , the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court issued an order requesting that the parties advise the court within 30 days whether the  Good  decision is dispositive of federal preemption issues pending
on appeal. In January 2009, PM USA notified the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court that  Good  is dispositive of the federal preemption issues on appeal, but requested further briefing on the state law statutory exemption issue. In March
2009, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court affirmed the order denying summary judgment to PM USA and granting the plaintiffs  cross-motion. In January 2010, plaintiffs moved for partial summary judgment as to liability claiming
collateral estoppel from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see  Federal Government s Lawsuit  described above).      

Curtis : In April 2005, the Minnesota Supreme Court denied PM USA s petition for interlocutory review of the trial court s class
certification order. In October 2009, the trial court denied plaintiffs  motion for partial summary judgment, filed in February 2009, claiming collateral estoppel from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see
 Federal Government s Lawsuit  described above). In October 2009, the trial court granted PM USA s motion for partial summary judgment, filed in August 2009, as to all consumer protection counts and, in December 2009,
dismissed the case in its entirety. On December 28, 2010, the Minnesota Court of Appeals reversed the trial court s dismissal of the case and affirmed the trial court s prior certification of the class under Minnesota s consumer
protection statutes. The Court of Appeals also reversed the trial court s denial of Altria Group, Inc. s motion to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction, thereby removing Altria Group, Inc. from the case, and affirmed the trial
court s denial of the plaintiffs  motion for partial summary judgment claiming collateral estoppel from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice. PM USA filed its petition for review with the Minnesota Supreme Court on
January 27, 2011.            

Larsen : In August 2005, a Missouri Court of Appeals affirmed the class certification order. In December 2009, the trial court denied plaintiff s
motion for reconsideration of the period during which potential class members can qualify to become part of the class. The class period remains 1995   2003. In June 2010, PM USA s motion for partial summary judgment regarding
plaintiffs  request for punitive damages was denied. In April 2010, plaintiffs moved for partial summary judgment as to an element of liability in the case, claiming collateral estoppel from the findings in the case brought by the Department of
Justice (see  Federal Government s Lawsuit  described above). The plaintiffs  motion was denied on December 28, 2010. In July 2010, the parties stipulated to the dismissal of Altria Group, Inc. as a defendant in the case. PM USA
remains a defendant. The case is tentatively set for trial in September 2011.            

Lawrence : On November 22, 2010, the trial court certified a class consisting of all persons who purchased Marlboro Lights cigarettes in the state of
New Hampshire at any time from the date the brand was introduced into commerce until the date trial in the case begins. PM USA s motion for reconsideration of this decision was denied on January 12, 2011. PM USA is seeking further review
before the New Hampshire Supreme Court.            
   Certain Other Tobacco-Related Litigation          
    Tobacco Price Case  : As of February 18, 2011, one case remains pending in Kansas ( Smith ) in which plaintiffs allege
that defendants, including PM USA and Altria Group, Inc., conspired to fix cigarette prices in violation of antitrust laws. Plaintiffs  motion for class certification has been granted. No trial date has been set.   
         -48-   

Table of Contents  

     Case Under the California Business and Professions Code  : In June 1997, a lawsuit
( Brown ) was filed in California state court alleging that domestic cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA and others, have violated California Business and Professions Code Sections 17200 and 17500 regarding unfair, unlawful and fraudulent
business practices. Class certification was granted as to plaintiffs  claims that class members are entitled to reimbursement of the costs of cigarettes purchased during the class periods and injunctive relief. In September 2004, the trial
court granted defendants  motion for summary judgment as to plaintiffs  claims attacking defendants  cigarette advertising and promotion and denied defendants  motion for summary judgment on plaintiffs  claims based on
allegedly false affirmative statements. Plaintiffs  motion for rehearing was denied. In March 2005, the court granted defendants  motion to decertify the class based on a California law, which  inter alia  limits the ability to bring
a lawsuit to only those plaintiffs who have  suffered injury in fact  and  lost money or property  as a result of defendant s alleged statutory violations ( Proposition 64 ). In two July 2006 opinions, the
California Supreme Court held Proposition 64 applicable to pending cases. Plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration of the order that decertified the class was denied, and plaintiffs appealed.   
        In September 2006, an intermediate appellate court affirmed the trial
court s order decertifying the class. In May 2009, the California Supreme Court reversed the trial court decision that was affirmed by the appellate court and remanded the case to the trial court. Defendants filed a rehearing petition in June
2009. In August 2009, the California Supreme Court denied defendants  rehearing petition and issued its mandate. In March 2010, the trial court granted reconsideration of its September 2004 order granting partial summary judgment to defendants
with respect to plaintiffs   Lights  claims on the basis of judicial decisions issued since its order was issued, including the United States Supreme Court s ruling in  Good , thereby reinstating plaintiffs 
 Lights  claims. Since the trial court s prior ruling decertifying the class was reversed on appeal by the California Supreme Court, the parties and the court are treating all claims currently being asserted by the plaintiffs as
certified, subject, however, to defendants  challenge to the class representatives  standing to assert their claims. The class is defined as people who, at the time they were residents of California, smoked in California one or more
cigarettes between June 10, 1993 and April 23, 2001, and who were exposed to defendants  marketing and advertising activities in California. In July 2010, plaintiffs filed a motion seeking collateral estoppel effect from the findings
in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see  Federal Government s Lawsuit  described above). In September 2010, plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary resolution of legal issues regarding restitutionary relief. The trial court
denied both of plaintiffs  motions on November 3, 2010. On November 5, 2010, defendants filed a motion seeking a determination that  Brown  class members who were also part of the class in  Daniels  (a previously disclosed
consumer fraud case in which the California Supreme Court affirmed summary judgment in PM USA s favor based on preemption and First Amendment grounds) are precluded by the  Daniels  judgment from recovering in  Brown . This motion was
denied on December 15, 2010. On December 15, 2010, defendants filed a motion for a determination that the class representatives lack standing and are not typical or adequate to represent the class. Argument on this motion was heard on
February 23, 2011.     The case is scheduled for trial in May 2011.              Ignition Propensity Cases  : PM USA is currently a defendant in two wrongful death actions in which plaintiffs contend that fires caused by cigarettes led to other individuals 
deaths. In one case pending in federal court in Massachusetts ( Sarro ), the district court in August 2009 granted in part PM USA s motion to dismiss, but ruled that two claims unrelated to product design could go forward. On
November 10, 2010, PM USA filed a motion for summary judgment. Argument is scheduled for March 2, 2011. In a Kentucky federal court case ( Walker ), the court dismissed plaintiffs  claims in February 2009 and plaintiffs
subsequently filed a notice of appeal. The appeal is pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Argument was held in October 2010.   
         -49-   

Table of Contents  

    UST Litigation    
         Types of Cases             Claims related to smokeless tobacco products generally fall within the following categories:   
        First, UST and/or its tobacco subsidiaries has been named in certain
health care cost reimbursement/third-party recoupment/class action litigation against the major domestic cigarette companies and others seeking damages and other relief. The complaints in these cases on their face predominantly relate to the usage
of cigarettes; within that context, certain complaints contain a few allegations relating specifically to smokeless tobacco products. These actions are in varying stages of pretrial activities.   
        Second, UST and/or its tobacco subsidiaries has been named in certain
actions in West Virginia brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs against cigarette manufacturers, smokeless tobacco manufacturers, and other organizations seeking damages and other relief in connection with injuries allegedly sustained as a
result of tobacco usage, including smokeless tobacco products. Included among the plaintiffs are five individuals alleging use of USSTC s smokeless tobacco products and alleging the types of injuries claimed to be associated with the use of
smokeless tobacco products. While certain of these actions had not been consolidated for pretrial and trial proceedings, USSTC, along with other non-cigarette manufacturers, has remained severed from such proceedings since December 2001.   
        Third, UST and/or its tobacco subsidiaries has been named in a number
of other individual tobacco and health suits. Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in these cases are based on various theories of recovery, such as negligence, strict liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, breach
of implied warranty, addiction, and breach of consumer protection statutes. Plaintiffs seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and punitive damages, and certain equitable relief, including but not limited to disgorgement. Defenses
raised in these cases include lack of causation, assumption of the risk, comparative fault and/or contributory negligence, and statutes of limitations. USSTC is currently named in one such action in Florida ( Vassallo ).   
        In October 2010, in an action in Connecticut ( Hill ), USSTC
entered into a settlement agreement honoring a $5 million settlement offer it made to the plaintiff before the January 2009 acquisition of UST by Altria Group, Inc. The settlement amount was paid on November 22, 2010, concluding this
litigation.             Certain Other Actions    
          IRS Challenges to PMCC Leases :  The IRS concluded its
examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999, and issued a final Revenue Agent s Report ( RAR ) in March 2006. The RAR disallowed tax benefits pertaining to certain PMCC LILO and
SILO transactions, for the years 1996 through 1999. Altria Group, Inc. agreed with all conclusions of the RAR, with the exception of the disallowance of tax benefits pertaining to the LILO and SILO transactions. Altria Group, Inc. contests
approximately $150 million of tax and net interest assessed and paid with regard to them.            In October 2006, Altria Group, Inc. filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York to claim refunds on a portion of these tax payments and associated interest for the
years 1996 and 1997. In July 2009, the jury returned a unanimous verdict in favor of the   
         -50-   

Table of Contents  

IRS and, in April 2010, after denying Altria Group, Inc. s post-trial motions, the district court entered final judgment in favor of the IRS. Altria Group, Inc. filed an appeal with the
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in June 2010.            In March 2008, Altria Group, Inc. filed a second complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking a refund of the tax payments and associated interest for the years 1998
and 1999 attributable to the disallowance of tax benefits claimed in those years with respect to the leases subject to the jury verdict and with respect to certain other leases entered into in 1998 and 1999. In May 2009, the district court granted a
stay pending the decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in the case involving the 1996 and 1997 years.         
  In May 2010, Altria Group, Inc. executed a closing agreement with the IRS for the 2000-2003 years, which resolved various tax matters of Altria
Group, Inc. and its former subsidiaries, with the exception of the LILO and SILO transactions. Altria Group, Inc. disputes the IRS s disallowance of tax benefits related to the LILO and SILO transactions in the 2000-2003 years. Altria Group,
Inc. intends to file a claim for refund of approximately $945 million of tax and associated interest paid in July 2010 in connection with the closing agreement, with respect to the LILO and SILO transactions that PMCC entered into during the
1996-2003 years. If the IRS disallows the claim, as anticipated, Altria Group, Inc. intends to commence litigation in federal court. Altria Group, Inc. and the IRS agreed that, with the exception of the LILO and SILO transactions, the tax treatment
reported by Altria Group, Inc. on its consolidated tax returns for the 2000-2003 years, as amended by the agreed-upon adjustments in the closing agreement, is appropriate and final. The IRS may not assess against Altria Group, Inc. any further taxes
or additions to tax (including penalties) with respect to these years.            Altria Group, Inc. further expects the IRS to challenge and disallow tax benefits claimed in subsequent years related to the LILO and SILO transactions that PMCC entered into from 1996 through 2003. For the period
January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2010, the disallowance of federal income tax and associated interest related to the LILO and SILO transactions would be approximately $900 million, taking into account federal income tax paid or payable
on gains associated with sales of leased assets during that period and excluding potential penalties. The payment, if any, of this amount would depend upon the timing and outcome of future IRS audits and any related administrative challenges or
litigation. The IRS is currently auditing the 2004   2006 years.            As of December 31, 2010, the LILO and SILO transactions represented approximately 41% of the Net Finance Assets of PMCC s lease portfolio. PMCC has not entered into any LILO or SILO transactions since
2003.            Should Altria Group, Inc. not prevail in these
matters, Altria Group, Inc. may have to accelerate the payment of significant additional amounts of federal income tax, pay associated interest costs and penalties, if imposed, and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the
income from the affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year.   
          Kraft Thrift Plan Case   :  Four participants in the
Kraft Foods Global, Inc. Thrift Plan ( Kraft Thrift Plan ), a defined contribution plan, filed a class action complaint on behalf of all participants and beneficiaries of the Kraft Thrift Plan in July 2008 in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging breach of fiduciary duty under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ). Named defendants in this action include Altria Corporate Services, Inc. (now Altria Client Services
Inc.) and certain company committees that allegedly had a relationship to the Kraft Thrift Plan. Plaintiffs request, among other remedies, that defendants restore to the Kraft Thrift Plan all losses improperly incurred. The Altria Group, Inc.
defendants deny any violation of ERISA or other unlawful conduct and are defending the case vigorously.   
         -51-   

Table of Contents  

   In December 2009, the court granted in part and denied in part defendants  motion to dismiss
plaintiffs  complaint. In addition to dismissing certain claims made by plaintiffs for equitable relief under ERISA as to all defendants, the court dismissed claims alleging excessive administrative fees and mismanagement of company stock funds
as to one of the Altria Group, Inc. defendants. In February 2010, the court granted a joint stipulation dismissing the fee and stock fund claims without prejudice as to the remaining defendants, including Altria Corporate Services, Inc. Accordingly,
the only claim remaining at this time relates to the alleged negligence of plan fiduciaries for including the Growth Equity Fund and Balanced Fund as Kraft Thrift Plan investment options. Plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification in March
2010, which the court granted in August 2010. Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment on January 21, 2011.         
  Under the terms of a Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft, the Altria Group, Inc. defendants may be entitled to indemnity
against any liabilities incurred in connection with this case.         
   Environmental Regulation          
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning
the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise related to environmental protection, including, in the United States: The Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as  Superfund ), which can impose joint and several liability on each responsible party. Subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) of Altria Group, Inc. are involved in
several matters subjecting them to potential costs of remediation and natural resource damages under Superfund or other laws and regulations. Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in
connection with environmental laws and regulations. As discussed in Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,  Altria Group, Inc. provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis
when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Other than those amounts, it is not possible to reasonably estimate the cost of any environmental remediation and compliance efforts that subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. may
undertake in the future. In the opinion of management, however, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including the payment of any remediation costs or damages and the making of related expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to
have, a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position or cash flows.         
   Guarantees          
  In the ordinary course of business, certain subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. have agreed to indemnify a limited number of third parties in the
event of future litigation. At December 31, 2010, subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. were also contingently liable for $24 million of guarantees related to their own performance, consisting primarily of surety bonds. These items have not had,
and are not expected to have, a significant impact on Altria Group, Inc. s liquidity.            Under the terms of a distribution agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI, entered into as a result of the PMI spin-off, liabilities concerning tobacco products will be allocated based in substantial part on
the manufacturer. PMI will indemnify Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA for liabilities related to tobacco products manufactured by PMI or contract manufactured for PMI by PM USA, and PM USA will indemnify PMI for liabilities related to tobacco products
manufactured by PM USA, excluding tobacco products contract manufactured for PMI. Altria Group, Inc. does not have a related liability recorded on its consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2010 as the fair value of this indemnification is
insignificant.   
         -52-   

Table of Contents  

   As more fully discussed in Note 22.  Condensed Consolidating Financial Information  to Altria
Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2010 Annual Report, PM USA has issued guarantees relating to Altria Group, Inc. s obligations under its outstanding debt securities,
borrowings under its senior unsecured 364-day revolving credit agreement, its senior unsecured 3-year revolving credit agreement and amounts outstanding under its commercial paper program.             Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest    
        In September 2007, UST completed the acquisition of Stag s Leap
Wine Cellars through one of its consolidated subsidiaries, Michelle-Antinori, LLC ( Michelle-Antinori ), in which UST holds an 85% ownership interest with a 15% noncontrolling interest held by Antinori California ( Antinori ). In
connection with the acquisition of Stag s Leap Wine Cellars, UST entered into a put arrangement with Antinori. The put arrangement, as later amended, provides Antinori with the right to require UST to purchase its 15% ownership interest in
Michelle-Antinori at a price equal to Antinori s initial investment of $27 million. The put arrangement became exercisable on September 11, 2010 and has no expiration date. As of December 31, 2010, the redemption value of the put
arrangement did not exceed the noncontrolling interest balance. Therefore, no adjustment to the value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest was recognized in the consolidated balance sheet for the put arrangement.   
        The noncontrolling interest put arrangement is accounted for as
mandatorily redeemable securities because redemption is outside of the control of UST. As such, the redeemable noncontrolling interest is reported in the mezzanine equity section in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009.

Item 4.   
   (Removed and Reserved)      
         -53-   

Table of Contents  

      PART II          

Item 5.   
      Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.          
        In January 2011, Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors
authorized a new $1.0 billion one-year share repurchase program. Share repurchases under this program depend upon marketplace conditions and other factors. The share repurchase program remains subject to the discretion of Altria Group, Inc. s
Board of Directors.            During the second quarter of 2008,
Altria Group, Inc. repurchased 53.5 million shares of its common stock at an aggregate cost of approximately $1.2 billion, or an average price of $21.81 per share pursuant to its $4.0 billion (2008 to 2010) share repurchase program. No shares
were repurchased during 2010 or 2009 under this share repurchase program, which was suspended in September 2009. The new share repurchase program replaces the suspended program.   
        Altria Group, Inc. s share repurchase activity for each of the
three months in the period ended December 31, 2010, was as follows:         

(1)  
  Represents shares tendered to Altria Group, Inc. by employees who vested in restricted and deferred stock, or exercised stock options, and used shares to pay all, or a portion
of, the related taxes and/or option exercise price.           
          The principal
stock exchange on which Altria Group, Inc. s common stock (par value $0.33 1/3 per share) is listed is the New York Stock Exchange. At January 31, 2011, there were approximately 89,000 holders of record of Altria Group, Inc. s
common stock.            The other information called for by this Item
is hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraph captioned  Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)  on pages 81 to 82 of the 2010 Annual Report and made a part hereof.   
         -54-   

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
      Selected Financial Data.                
  The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the information with respect to 2006-2010 appearing under the caption
 Selected Financial Data   Five Year Review  on page 18 of the 2010 Annual Report and made a part hereof.         

Item 7.   
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.          
        The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by
reference to the paragraphs captioned  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  on pages 83 to 111 of the 2010 Annual Report and made a part hereof.   

Item 7A.   
      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.          
        The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by
reference to the paragraphs in the  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  captioned  Market Risk  on pages 107 to 108 of the 2010 Annual Report and made a part hereof.

Item 8.   
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.                
  The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2010 Annual Report as set forth under the caption  Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited)  on pages 81 to 82 and in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules (see Item 15) and made a part hereof.   

Item 9.   
      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.          
        None.         

Item 9A.   
      Controls and Procedures.                

(a)  
  Disclosure Controls and Procedures           
  Altria Group, Inc. carried out an evaluation, with the participation of Altria Group, Inc. s management, including Altria Group, Inc. s
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of Altria Group, Inc. s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the end of the
period covered by this report. Based upon that evaluation, Altria Group, Inc. s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that Altria Group, Inc. s disclosure controls and procedures are effective. There have been no
changes in Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over
financial reporting.            See pages 112 to 113 of
Exhibit 13 for the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm and the Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting incorporated herein by reference.         

Item 9B.   
      Other Information.                
  None.   
         -55-   

Table of Contents  

      PART III    
        Except for the information relating to the executive officers set forth
in Item 10, and the information relating to equity compensation plans set forth in Item 12, the information called for by Items 10-14 is hereby incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s definitive proxy statement for use
in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 19, 2011 that will be filed with the SEC on or about April 8, 2011 (the  proxy statement ), and, except as indicated therein, made a part hereof.   

Item 10.   
      Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.         
         Executive Officers as of February 24, 2011:    

Name     
      
     Office     
      
   Age     

Martin J. Barrington   
      
  Vice Chairman  

57  

David R. Beran   
      
  Vice Chairman  

56  

Nancy E. Brennan   
      
  Senior Vice President, Marketing, Altria Client Services Inc.  

58  

William F. Gifford, Jr.   
      
  President and Chief Executive Officer, Philip Morris USA Inc.  

40  

Louanna O. Heuhsen   
      
  Vice President, Corporate Governance and Associate General Counsel  

60  

Craig A. Johnson   
      
  Executive Vice President  

58  

Denise F. Keane   
      
  Executive Vice President and General Counsel  

59  

Salvatore Mancuso   
      
  Vice President and Treasurer  

45  

John R. Nelson   
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer  

59  

Peter P. Paoli   
      
  President and Chief Executive Officer, U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC  

53  

W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr .   
      
  Corporate Secretary and Senior Assistant General Counsel  

45  

Michael E. Szymanczyk   
      
  Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer  

62  

Linda M. Warren   
      
  Vice President and Controller  

62  

Howard A. Willard III   
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

47  
                 All of the above-mentioned officers have been employed by Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries in various capacities during the past five years, except for Ms. Heuhsen, who joined in 2008 after serving as a
partner in the law firm of Hunton   Williams LLP, and Mr. Surgner, who rejoined in 2006 after serving as Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Tredegar Corporation.   
         Codes of Conduct and Corporate Governance    
        Altria Group, Inc. has adopted the Altria Code of Conduct for
Compliance and Integrity, which complies with requirements set forth in Item 406 of Regulation S-K. This Code of Conduct applies to all of its employees, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal
accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions. Altria Group, Inc. has also adopted a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to the members of its Board of Directors. These documents are available free of charge
on Altria Group, Inc. s website at www.altria.com.            In
addition, Altria Group, Inc. has adopted corporate governance guidelines and charters for its Audit, Compensation and Nominating, Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committees and the other committees of the Board of Directors. All of
these documents are available free of charge on Altria Group, Inc. s website at www.altria.com. Any waiver granted by Altria Group, Inc. to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer or controller under the Code of Conduct, or
certain amendments to the Code of Conduct, will be disclosed on Altria Group, Inc. s website at www.altria.com.   
         -56-   

Table of Contents  

   The information on the respective websites of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries is not, and
shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Report or incorporated into any other filings Altria Group, Inc. makes with the SEC.         

Item 11.   
        Executive Compensation.          
        Refer to  Compensation Committee Matters  and
 Compensation of Directors  sections of the proxy statement.         

Item 12.   
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.          
        The number of shares to be issued upon exercise or vesting and the
number of shares remaining available for future issuance under Altria Group, Inc. s equity compensation plans at December 31, 2010, were as follows:         

Number of Shares to be Issued upon Exercise of Outstanding Options and Vesting of Deferred 
Stock     (a)     

Weighted Average Exercise Price
of Outstanding Options     (b)     

Number of Shares Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans     (c)     

Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders    (1)      

4,240,941        
     (2)    

$  
  10.95  

50,714,668        
     (3)    

(1)  
  The following plans have been approved by Altria Group, Inc. shareholders and have shares referenced in column (a) or column (c): the 1997 Performance Incentive Plan, the
2000 Performance Incentive Plan, the 2000 Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan, the 2010 Performance Incentive Plan, and the Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.

Refer to  Ownership of Equity Securities  section of the proxy statement.         

Item 13.   
      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.                   Refer to  Related Person Transactions and Code of Conduct  and  Independence of Nominees  sections of
the proxy statement.         

Item 14.   
      Principal Accounting Fees and Services.                
  Refer to  Audit Committee Matters  section of the proxy statement.   
         -57-   

Table of Contents  

      PART IV          

Item 15.   
      Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   .            

(a)  
  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules           
       
  Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted either because such schedules are not required or are not applicable.   

(b)  
  The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report:           

2.1  

Distribution Agreement by and between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft Foods Inc., dated as of January 31, 2007. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on January 31, 2007 (File No. 1-08940).   

2.2  

Distribution Agreement by and between Altria Group, Inc. and Philip Morris International Inc., dated as of January 30, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 30, 2008 (File No. 1-08940).   

2.3  

Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among UST Inc., Altria Group, Inc., and Armchair Merger Sub, Inc., dated as of September 7, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group,
Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 8, 2008 (File No. 1-08940).   

2.4  

Amendment No. 1 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 7, 2008, by and among UST Inc., Altria Group, Inc., and Armchair Merger Sub, Inc., dated as of October 2, 2008.
Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 3, 2008 (File No. 1-08940).   

3.1  

Articles of Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of Altria Group, Inc. and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Altria Group,
Inc. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 (File No. 1-08940).    
         -58-   

Table of Contents  

3.2  

Amended and Restated By-laws of Altria Group, Inc. effective December 15, 2010.   

4.1  

Indenture between Altria Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York (as successor in interest to JPMorgan Chase Bank, formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as Trustee, dated as of December
2, 1996. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-3/A filed on January 29, 1998 (No. 333-35143).   

4.2  

First Supplemental Indenture to Indenture, dated as of December 2, 1996, between Altria Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York (as successor in interest to JPMorgan Chase Bank, formerly known
as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as Trustee, dated as of February 13, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 15, 2008 (File No. 1-08940).   

4.3  

Indenture among Altria Group, Inc., as Issuer, Philip Morris USA Inc., as Guarantor, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee, dated as of November 4, 2008. Incorporated by
reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on November 4, 2008 (No. 333-155009).   

4.4  

3-Year Revolving Credit Agreement among Altria Group, Inc. and the Initial Lenders named therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agents, Barclays Capital,
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as Syndication Agents and Banco Santander, S.A., New York Branch, The Bank of Nova Scotia, HSBC Bank USA, National Association, Morgan Stanley
Senior Funding, Inc. and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, as Documentation Agents, dated as of November 20, 2009. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 23, 2009 (File No.
1-08940).   

4.5  

The Registrant agrees to furnish copies of any instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries that does not exceed
10 percent of the total assets of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries to the Commission upon request.   

10.1  

Comprehensive Settlement Agreement and Release related to settlement of Mississippi health care cost recovery action, dated as of October 17, 1997. Incorporated by reference to Altria
Group, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.2  

Settlement Agreement related to settlement of Florida health care cost recovery action, dated August 25, 1997. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on September 3, 1997 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.3  

Comprehensive Settlement Agreement and Release related to settlement of Texas health care cost recovery action, dated as of January 16, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group,
Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 28, 1998 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.4  

Settlement Agreement and Stipulation for Entry of Judgment regarding the claims of the State of Minnesota, dated as of May 8, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 1998 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.5  

Settlement Agreement and Release regarding the claims of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota, dated as of May 8, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 1998 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.6  

Stipulation of Amendment to Settlement Agreement and For Entry of Agreed Order regarding the settlement of the Mississippi health care cost recovery action, dated as of July 2, 1998.
Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1998 (File No. 1-08940).    
         -59-   

Table of Contents  

-60-   

Table of Contents  

10.20  

364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement among Altria Group, Inc. and the Initial Lenders named therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agents, Barclays
Capital, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as Syndication Agents and Banco Santander, S.A., New York Branch, The Bank of Nova Scotia, HSBC Bank USA, National Association, Morgan
Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, as Documentation Agents, dated as of November 17, 2010. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 17, 2010 (File No.
1-08940).   

10.21  

Guarantee made by Philip Morris USA Inc., in favor of the lenders party to the 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2009, among Altria Group, Inc., the lenders
named therein, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agents, dated as of November 20, 2009. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 23, 2009 (File
No. 1-08940).   

10.22  

Guarantee made by Philip Morris USA Inc., in favor of the lenders party to the 3-Year Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2009, among Altria Group, Inc., the lenders named
therein, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agents, dated as of November 20, 2009. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 23, 2009 (File
No. 1-08940).   

10.23  

Guarantee made by Philip Morris USA Inc., in favor of the lenders party to the 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of November 17, 2010, among Altria Group, Inc., the lenders
named therein, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agents, dated as of November 17, 2010. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 17, 2010 (File
No. 1-08940).   

10.24  

Financial Counseling Program. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.25  

Benefit Equalization Plan, effective September 2, 1974, as amended.   

10.26  

Form of Employee Grantor Trust Enrollment Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995
(File No. 1-08940).   

10.27  

Form of Supplemental Employee Grantor Trust Enrollment Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2005 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.28  

Automobile Policy. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 (File
No. 1-08940).   

10.29  

Supplemental Management Employees  Retirement Plan of Altria Group, Inc., effective as of October 1, 1987, as amended. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.30  

Unit Plan for Incumbent Non-Employee Directors, effective January 1, 1996, as amended effective August 31, 2007. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.31  

Form of Executive Master Trust between Altria Group, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank and Handy Associates. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 1994 (File No. 1-08940).   

10.32  

Grantor Trust Agreement by and between Altria Client Services Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, dated February 23,
2011.    
         -61-   

Table of Contents  

-62-   

Table of Contents  

-63-   

Table of Contents  

101.INS  

XBRL Instance Document.   

101.SCH  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.   

101.CAL  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.   

101.DEF  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase.   

101.LAB  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.   

101.PRE  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase.    
         -64-   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES              Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.           

Altria Group, Inc.   

By:   
     
    /s/    M ICHAEL  E.
S ZYMANCZYK              

(Michael E. Szymanczyk     Chairman of the Board and     Chief Executive Officer)     

        Date: February 24, 2011   
         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:          

Signature     
     
     Title     
     
     Date      

/s/    M ICHAEL  E.
S ZYMANCZYK                 (Michael E. Szymanczyk)     
     
    Director, Chairman of the Board and     Chief Executive Officer   
     
  February 24, 2011   

/s/    H OWARD  A. W ILLARD 
III              (Howard A. Willard
III)   
     
    Executive Vice President and     Chief Financial Officer   
     
  February 24, 2011   

/s/    L INDA  M.
W ARREN            
  (Linda M. Warren)   
     
  Vice President and Controller  
     
  February 24, 2011   

*        ELIZABETH E. BAILEY,  
  GERALD L. BALILES,     JOHN T.
CASTEEN III,     DINYAR S. DEVITRE,     THOMAS F. FARRELL II,     ROBERT E. R. HUNTLEY,  
  THOMAS W. JONES,     GEORGE
MU OZ,     NABIL Y. SAKKAB   
     
    Directors   

*By:   
      
    /s/    M ICHAEL  E.
S ZYMANCZYK       (M ICHAEL  E.
S ZYMANCZYK      A TTORNEY - IN - FACT )   

February 24, 2011     
         -65-   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
        To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Altria
Group, Inc.:            Our audits of the consolidated financial
statements and of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting referred to in our report dated January 27, 2011 appearing in the 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. (which report and consolidated financial
statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly,
in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.         
  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP         
  Richmond, Virginia      January 27, 2011   
         S-1   

Table of Contents  

      ALTRIA GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES    
         VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS    
   For the Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008        (in millions)          
  
  Notes:         

(a)  
  Related to the acquisition of UST LLC           

(b)  
  Represents charges for which allowances were created     
         S-2   

<EX-3.2>
 2
 dex32.htm
 AMENDED AND RESTATED BY-LAWS OF ALTRIA GROUP, INC.

Amended and Restated By-laws of Altria Group, Inc. 

Exhibit 3.2        BY-LAWS        of    
   ALTRIA GROUP, INC.        ARTICLE I        Meetings of Stockholders    
   Section 1. Annual Meetings.  - The annual meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of
such other business as may properly come before the meeting, and any postponement or adjournment thereof, shall be held on such date and at such time as the Board of Directors may in its discretion determine.   
   Section 2. Special Meetings.  - Unless otherwise provided by law, special meetings of the stockholders may be called by the
chairman of the Board of Directors, or in the chairman s absence, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if one shall have been elected by the Board of
Directors) or, in the absence of all of the foregoing, an executive vice president or by order of the Board of Directors, whenever deemed necessary.       Section 3. Place of Meetings.  - All meetings of the stockholders shall be held at such place as from time to time may be fixed by the Board of Directors.   
   Section 4. Notice of Meetings.  - Notice, stating the place, day and hour and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose
or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting (except as a different time is specified herein or by law), to each stockholder of record having voting power in
respect of the business to be transacted thereat.      Notice of a stockholders  meeting to act on an amendment of the
Articles of Incorporation, a plan of merger or share exchange, a proposed sale of all, or substantially all of the Corporation s assets, otherwise than in the usual and regular course of business, or the dissolution of the Corporation shall be
given not less than twenty-five nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting and shall be accompanied, as appropriate, by a copy of the proposed amendment, plan of merger or share exchange or sale agreement.   
  December 15, 2010   
         -1-

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a written waiver of notice signed by the person or persons
entitled to such notice, either before or after the time stated therein, shall be equivalent to the giving of such notice. A stockholder who attends a meeting shall be deemed to have (i) waived objection to lack of notice or defective notice of
the meeting, unless at the beginning of the meeting he or she objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting, and (ii) waived objection to consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose
or purposes described in the meeting notice, unless he or she objects to considering the matter when it is presented.   
   Section 5. Quorum.  - At all meetings of the stockholders, unless a greater number or voting by classes is required by law, a
majority of the shares entitled to vote, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum. If a quorum is present, action on a matter is approved if the votes cast favoring the action exceed the votes cast opposing the action, unless the
vote of a greater number or voting by classes is required by law or the Articles of Incorporation, and except that in elections of directors those receiving the greatest number of votes shall be deemed elected even though not receiving a majority.
Less than a quorum may adjourn.       Section 6. Organization and Order of Business.  - At all meetings of the
stockholders ,  the chairman of the Board of Directors or, in the chairman s absence, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if one shall have been
elected by the Board of Directors) or, in the absence of all of the foregoing, the most senior executive vice president, shall act as chairman. In the absence of all of the foregoing officers or, if present, with their consent, a majority of the
shares entitled to vote at such meeting, may appoint any person to act as chairman. The secretary of the Corporation or, in the secretary s absence, an assistant secretary, shall act as secretary at all meetings of the stockholders. In the
event that neither the secretary nor any assistant secretary is present, the chairman may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.      The chairman shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts and things as are necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of the meeting,
including, without limitation, the establishment of procedures for the dismissal of business not properly presented, the maintenance of order and safety, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation,
restrictions on entry to such meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and the opening and closing of the voting polls.      At each annual meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or
(b) by any stockholder of the Corporation who shall be entitled to vote at such meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 6. In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly
brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder s notice must be given, either by personal delivery or by
United States certified mail, postage prepaid, and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (i) not less than 120 days nor more than 150 days before the first anniversary of the date of the Corporation s proxy
statement in connection with the last annual meeting of stockholders or (ii) if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the applicable annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date contemplated at the
time of the previous year s proxy statement, not less than 60 days before the date of the applicable annual meeting. A stockholder s notice to the secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the
annual meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting, including the complete text of any resolutions to be presented at the annual meeting, and the reasons for conducting such business at the
annual meeting, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation s stock transfer books, of such stockholder proposing such business, (c) a representation that such stockholder is a stockholder of record and intends to
appear in person or by proxy at such meeting to bring the business before the meeting specified in the notice, (d) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by the stockholder and (e) any material
interest of the stockholder in   
         -2-

such business. Notwithstanding anything in the By-Laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at an annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
Section 6. The chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine that the business was not brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures prescribed by this Section 6 .  If the chairman should so
determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6, a stockholder seeking to have a proposal included
in the Corporation s proxy statement shall comply with the requirements of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including, but not limited to, Rule 14a-8 or its successor provision). The secretary of the
Corporation shall deliver each such stockholder s notice that has been timely received to the Board of Directors or a committee designated by the Board of Directors for review.   
   Section 7. Voting.  - A stockholder may vote his or her shares in person or by proxy. Any proxy shall be delivered to the
secretary of the meeting at or prior to the time designated by the chairman or in the order of business for so delivering such proxies. No proxy shall be valid after eleven months from its date, unless otherwise provided in the proxy. Each holder of
record of stock of any class shall, as to all matters in respect of which stock of such class has voting power, be entitled to such vote as is provided in the Articles of Incorporation for each share of stock of such class standing in the
holder s name on the books of the Corporation. Unless required by statute or determined by the chairman to be advisable, the vote on any question need not be by ballot. On a vote by ballot, each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting
or by such stockholder s proxy, if there be such proxy.       Section 8. Written Authorization.  - A stockholder or
a stockholder s duly authorized attorney-in-fact may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for him or her as proxy. Execution may be accomplished by the stockholder or such stockholder s duly authorized
attorney-in-fact or authorized officer, director, employee or agent signing such writing or causing such stockholder s signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature.
      Section 9. Electronic Authorization.  - The secretary or any vice president may approve procedures to enable a
stockholder or a stockholder s duly authorized attorney-in-fact to authorize another person or persons to act for him or her as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, internet transmission, telephone
transmission or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the
proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which the inspectors of election can determine that the transmission was authorized by the stockholder or the
stockholder s duly authorized attorney-in-fact. If it is determined that such transmissions are valid, the inspectors shall specify the information upon which they relied. Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of
the writing or transmission created pursuant to this Section 9 may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such
copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.       Section 10. Inspectors.  - At every meeting of the stockholders for election of directors, the proxies shall be received and taken in charge, all ballots shall be received and counted and all
questions concerning the qualifications of voters, the validity of proxies, and the acceptance or rejection of votes shall be decided, by two or more inspectors. Such inspectors shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting. They shall be sworn
faithfully to perform their duties and shall in writing certify to the returns. No candidate for election as director shall be appointed or act as inspector.   
         -3-

ARTICLE II        Board of Directors        Section 1. General Powers.  - The business
and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors.       Section 2. Number. 
- - The number of directors shall be ten (10).       Section 3. Term of Office and Qualification.  - Each director shall
serve for the term for which he or she shall have been elected and until a successor shall have been duly elected.   
   Section 4. Nomination and Election of Directors.     
  (a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Section 4, each director shall be elected by a vote of the
majority of the votes cast with respect to that director-nominee s election at a meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present. For purposes of this Section 4, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of
shares voted  for  a director must exceed the number of shares voted  against  that director.      (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to any election of directors if there are more nominees for election than the number of directors to be elected, one or more of whom are properly proposed by
shareholders. A nominee for director in an election to which this subsection (b) applies shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast in such election.   
  (c) No person shall be eligible for election as a director unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in
this Section 4. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made by the Board of Directors or any committee designated by the Board of Directors or by any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of directors at
the applicable meeting of stockholders who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 4. Such nominations, other than those made by the Board of Directors or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may be made
only if written notice of a stockholder s intent to nominate one or more persons for election as directors at the applicable meeting of stockholders has been given, either by personal delivery or by United States certified mail, postage
prepaid, to the secretary of the Corporation and received (i) not less than 120 days nor more than 150 days before the first anniversary of the date of the Corporation s proxy statement in connection with the last annual meeting of
stockholders, or (ii) if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the applicable annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year s proxy statement, not
less than 60 days before the date of the applicable annual meeting, or (iii) with respect to any special meeting of stockholders called for the election of directors, not later than the close of business on the seventh day following the date on
which notice of such meeting is first given to stockholders. Each such stockholder s notice shall set forth (a) as to the stockholder giving the notice, (i) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation s stock transfer
books, of such stockholder, (ii) a representation that such stockholder is a stockholder of record and intends to appear in person or by proxy at such meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice, (iii) the class and
number of shares of stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by such stockholder, and (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or
persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by such stockholder; and (b) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director, (i) the name, age, business address and, if known,
residence address of such person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (iii) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such person, (iv) any other information
relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors or is otherwise required by the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated under the
  
         -4-

Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (v) the written consent of such person to be named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected. The secretary
of the Corporation shall deliver each such stockholder s notice that has been timely received to the Board of Directors or a committee designated by the Board of Directors for review. Any person nominated for election as director by the Board
of Directors or any committee designated by the Board of Directors shall, upon the request of the Board of Directors or such committee, furnish to the secretary of the Corporation all such information pertaining to such person that is required to be
set forth in a stockholder s notice of nomination. The chairman of the meeting of stockholders shall, if the facts warrant, determine that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by this Section 4. If the
chairman should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.   
   Section 5. Organization.  - At all meetings of the Board of Directors, the chairman of the Board of Directors or, in the
chairman s absence, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if one shall have been elected by the Board of Directors) or, in the absence of all of the
foregoing, the senior most executive vice president, shall act as chairman of the meeting. The secretary of the Corporation or, in the secretary s absence, an assistant secretary, shall act as secretary of meetings of the Board of Directors. In
the event that neither the secretary nor any assistant secretary shall be present at such meeting, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.   
   Section 6. Vacancies.  - Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors, including a vacancy resulting from amending these
By-Laws to increase the number of directors by thirty percent or less, may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors.   
   Section 7. Place of Meeting.  - Meetings of the Board of Directors, regular or special, may be held either within or without
the Commonwealth of Virginia.       Section 8. Organizational Meeting.  - The annual organizational meeting of the Board
of Directors shall be held immediately following adjournment of the annual meeting of stockholders and at the same place, without the requirement of any notice other than this provision of the By-Laws.   
   Section 9. Regular Meetings: Notice.  - Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such times and places as
it may from time to time determine. Notice of such meetings need not be given if the time and place have been fixed at a previous meeting.       Section 10. Special Meetings.  - Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by order of the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of
Directors (if any), the vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any) or two of the directors. Notice of each such meeting, which need not specify the business to be transacted thereat, shall be mailed to each director,
addressed to his or her residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to such place by telegraph, telex or telecopy or be delivered personally or by telephone, not later
than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held.       Section 11. Waiver of Notice.  - Whenever any
notice is required to be given to a director of any meeting for any purpose under the provisions of law, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, a waiver thereof in writing signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, either
before or after the time stated therein, shall be equivalent to the giving of such notice. A director s attendance at or participation in a meeting waives any required notice to him or her of the meeting unless at the beginning of the meeting
or promptly upon the director s arrival, he or she objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and does not thereafter vote for or assent to action taken at the meeting.   
   Section 12. Quorum and Manner of Acting.  - Except where otherwise provided by law, a majority of the directors fixed by these
By-Laws at the time of any regular or special meeting shall constitute a quorum for the   
         -5-

transaction of business at such meeting, and the act of a majority of the directors present at any such meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. In the
absence of a quorum, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum be had. Notice of any such adjourned meeting need not be given.       Section 13. Order of Business.  - At all meetings of the Board of Directors business may be transacted in such order as from time to time the Board of Directors may determine.   
   Section 14. Committees.  - In addition to the executive committee authorized by Article III of these By-Laws, other
committees, consisting of two or more directors, may be designated by the Board of Directors by a resolution adopted by the greater number of (i) a majority of all directors in office at the time the action is being taken or (ii) the
number of directors required to take action under Article II, Section 12 hereof. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors designating the committee, shall have and may exercise the powers and
authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, except as limited by law.   
   ARTICLE III        Executive Committee        Section 1. How Constituted and Powers.  -
The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted pursuant to Article II, Section 14 hereof, may designate, in addition to the chairman of the Board of Directors, one or more directors to constitute an executive committee, who shall serve during
the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The executive committee, to the extent provided in such resolution and permitted by law, shall have and may exercise all of the authority of the Board of Directors.   
   Section 2. Organization, Etc.  - The executive committee may choose a chairman and secretary. The executive committee shall
keep a record of its acts and proceedings and report the same from time to time to the Board of Directors.       Section 3.
Meetings.  - Meetings of the executive committee may be called by any member of the committee. Notice of each such meeting, which need not specify the business to be transacted thereat, shall be mailed to each member of the committee, addressed
to his or her residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held or shall be sent to such place by telegraph, telex or telecopy or be delivered personally or by telephone, not later than the day
before the day on which the meeting is to be held.       Section 4. Quorum and Manner of Acting.  - A majority of the
executive committee shall constitute a quorum for transaction of business, and the act of a majority of those present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the executive committee. The members of the executive committee shall
act only as a committee, and the individual members shall have no powers as such.       Section 5. Removal.  - Any
member of the executive committee may be removed, with or without cause, at any time, by the Board of Directors.   
   Section 6. Vacancies.  - Any vacancy in the executive committee shall be filled by the Board of Directors.   
         -6-

ARTICLE IV        Officers        Section 1. Number.  - The officers of the Corporation
shall be a chairman of the Board of Directors, a deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if elected by the Board of Directors), a president (if elected by the Board of Directors), one or more vice chairmen of the Board of Directors (if elected by
the Board of Directors), a chief operating officer (if elected by the Board of Directors), one or more vice presidents (one or more of whom may be designated executive vice president or senior vice president), a treasurer, a controller, a secretary,
one or more assistant treasurers, assistant controllers and assistant secretaries and such other officers as may from time to time be chosen by the Board of Directors. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.   
   Section 2. Election, Term of Office and Qualifications.  - All officers of the Corporation shall be chosen annually by the
Board of Directors, and each officer shall hold office until a successor shall have been duly chosen and qualified or until the officer resigns or is removed in the manner hereinafter provided. The chairman of the Board of Directors shall be chosen
from among the directors.       Section 3. Vacancies.  - If any vacancy shall occur among the officers of the
Corporation, such vacancy shall be filled by the Board of Directors.       Section 4. Other Officers, Agents and Employees
- - Their Powers and Duties.  - The Board of Directors may from time to time appoint such other officers as the Board of Directors may deem necessary, to hold office for such time as may be designated by it or during its pleasure, and the Board of
Directors or the chairman of the Board of Directors may appoint, from time to time, such agents and employees of the Corporation as may be deemed proper, and may authorize any officers to appoint and remove agents and employees. The Board of
Directors or the chairman of the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe the powers and duties of such other officers, agents and employees of the Corporation.       Section 5. Removal.  - Any officer, agent or employee of the Corporation may be removed, either with or without cause, by a vote of a majority of the Board of Directors or, in the case of any
agent or employee not appointed by the Board of Directors, by a superior officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the Board of Directors.   
   Section 6. Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer.  - The chairman of the Board of Directors shall
preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and shall be a member of the executive committee. The chairman shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall be responsible to the Board of Directors. He or
she shall be responsible for the general management and control of the business and affairs of the Corporation and shall see to it that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are implemented. The chairman shall, from time to time,
report to the Board of Directors on matters within his or her knowledge which the interests of the Corporation may require be brought to its notice. The chairman shall do and perform such other duties as from time to time the Board of Directors may
prescribe .        Section 7. Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors.  - In the absence of the chairman of the
Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if elected by the Board of Directors) shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The deputy chairman shall be responsible to the chairman of the
Board of Directors and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the chairman of the Board of Directors. The deputy chairman shall from time to time report to the chairman of the Board of Directors on matters within the deputy
chairman s knowledge which the interests of the Corporation may require be brought to the chairman s notice.   
   Section 8. President.  - In the absence of the chairman of the Board of Directors and the deputy chairman of the Board of
Directors (if any), the president (if one shall have been elected by the Board of Directors) shall   
         -7-

preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The president shall be responsible to the chairman of the Board of Directors. Subject to the authority of the chairman of
the Board of Directors, the president shall be devoted to the Corporation s business and affairs under the basic policies set by the Board of Directors and the chairman of the Board of Directors. He or she shall, from time to time, report to
the chairman of the Board of Directors on matters within the president s knowledge which the interests of the Corporation may require be brought to the chairman s notice. The president (if any) shall do and perform such other duties as
from time to time the Board of Directors or the chairman of the Board of Directors may prescribe.       Section 9. Vice
Chairmen of the Board of Directors.  - In the absence of the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any) and the president (if any), the vice chairman of the Board of Directors designated for such
purpose by the chairman of the Board of Directors (if any) shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. Each vice chairman of the Board of Directors shall be responsible to the chairman of the Board of Directors. Each
vice chairman of the Board of Directors shall from time to time report to the chairman of the Board of Directors on matters within the vice chairman s knowledge which the interests of the Corporation may require be brought to the
chairman s notice.       Section 10. Chief Operating Officer.  - The chief operating officer (if any) shall be
responsible to the chairman of the Board of Directors for the principal operating businesses of the Corporation and shall perform those duties that may from time to time be assigned.   
   Section 11. Vice Presidents.  - The vice presidents of the Corporation shall assist the chairman of the Board of Directors,
the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors, the president (if any) and the vice chairmen (if any) of the Board of Directors in carrying out their respective duties and shall perform those duties which may from time to time be assigned to them.
The chief financial officer shall be a vice president of the Corporation (or more senior) and shall be responsible for the management and supervision of the financial affairs of the Corporation.   
   Section 12. Treasurer.  - The treasurer shall have charge of the funds, securities, receipts and disbursements of the
Corporation. He or she shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such banks or trust companies or with such bankers or other depositaries as the Board of Directors may from time to time
designate. The treasurer shall render to the Board of Directors, the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any), the vice chairmen of the Board of Directors (if any), and the
chief financial officer, whenever required by any of them, an account of all of his transactions as treasurer. If required, the treasurer shall give a bond in such sum as the Board of Directors may designate, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of the treasurer s office and the restoration to the Corporation at the expiration of his or her term of office or in case of death, resignation or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money or other
property of whatever kind in his or her possession or under his or her control belonging to the Corporation. The treasurer shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her.   
   Section 13. Assistant Treasurers.  - In the absence or disability of the treasurer, one or more assistant treasurers shall
perform all the duties of the treasurer and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all restrictions upon, the treasurer. Assistant treasurers shall also perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to
them.       Section 14. Secretary.  - The secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the stockholders and of
the Board of Directors in a book or books kept for that purpose. He or she shall keep in safe custody the seal of the Corporation, and shall affix such seal to any instrument requiring it. The secretary shall have charge of such books and papers as
the Board of Directors may direct. He or she shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of the Corporation and shall also have such other powers and perform such other duties as pertain to the secretary s office, or as the Board of
Directors, the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any) or any vice chairman of the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.   
         -8-

Section 15. Assistant Secretaries.  - In the absence or disability of the
secretary, one or more assistant secretaries shall perform all of the duties of the secretary and, when so acting, shall have all of the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the secretary. Assistant secretaries shall also perform
such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to them.       Section 16. Controller.  - The controller shall be
administrative head of the controller s department. He or she shall be in charge of all functions relating to accounting and the preparation and analysis of budgets and statistical reports and shall establish, through appropriate channels,
recording and reporting procedures and standards pertaining to such matters. The controller shall report to the chief financial officer and shall aid in developing internal corporate policies whereby the business of the Corporation shall be
conducted with the maximum safety, efficiency and economy. The controller shall be available to all departments of the Corporation for advice and guidance in the interpretation and application of policies that are within the scope of his or her
authority. The controller shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her.   
   Section 17. Assistant Controllers.  - In the absence or disability of the controller, one or more assistant controllers shall
perform all of the duties of the controller and, when so acting, shall have all of the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the controller. Assistant controllers shall also perform such other duties as from time to time may be
assigned to them.       ARTICLE V        Contracts, Checks, Drafts, Bank Accounts, Etc.        Section 1.
Contracts.  - The chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any), any vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), any vice president, the treasurer and such other persons
as the chairman of the Board of Directors may authorize shall have the power to execute any contract or other instrument on behalf of the Corporation; no other officer, agent or employee shall, unless otherwise in these By-Laws provided, have any
power or authority to bind the Corporation by any contract or acknowledgement, or pledge its credit or render it liable pecuniarily for any purpose or to any amount.       Section 2. Loans.  - The chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any), any vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if
any), any vice president, the treasurer and such other persons as the Board of Directors may authorize shall have the power to effect loans and advances at any time for the Corporation from any bank, trust company or other institution, or from any
corporation, firm or individual, and for such loans and advances may make, execute and deliver promissory notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, and, as security for the payment of any and all loans, advances, indebtedness and
liability of the Corporation, may pledge, hypothecate or transfer any and all stocks, securities and other personal property at any time held by the Corporation, and to that end endorse, assign and deliver the same.   
   Section 3. Voting of Stock Held.  - The chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if
any), the president (if any), any vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), any vice president or the secretary may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation to cast the votes that the
Corporation may be entitled to cast as a stockholder or otherwise in any other corporation, any of whose stock or securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation, or to
consent in writing to any action by any other such corporation, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed on behalf of the Corporation
such written proxies, consents, waivers or other instruments as such officer may deem necessary or proper in the premises; or the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any),
  
         -9-

any vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), any vice president or the secretary may attend in person any meeting of the holders of stock or other securities of such other corporation
and thereat vote or exercise any and all powers of the Corporation as the holder of such stock or other securities of such other corporation.       ARTICLE VI        Certificates Representing Shares    
  Certificates representing shares of the Corporation shall be signed by the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the
Board of Directors (if any), or the vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), or the president of the Corporation (if any) and the secretary or an assistant secretary. Any and all signatures on such certificates, including signatures of
officers, transfer agents and registrars, may be facsimile.       ARTICLE VII    
   Dividends    
  The Board of Directors may declare dividends from funds of the Corporation legally available therefor.   
   ARTICLE VIII        Seal       The Board of Directors shall provide a suitable seal or seals, which
shall be in the form of a circle, and shall bear around the circumference the words  Altria Group, Inc.  and in the center the word and figures  Virginia, 1985.    
   ARTICLE IX    
   Fiscal Year       The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the calendar year.       ARTICLE X
       Amendment       The power to alter, amend or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation or to adopt new By-Laws shall be vested in the Board of Directors, but By-Laws made by the Board of Directors may be repealed or changed
by the stockholders, or new By-Laws may be adopted by the stockholders, and the stockholders may prescribe that any By-Laws made by them shall not be altered, amended or repealed by the directors.   
         -10-

ARTICLE XI        Emergency By-Laws       If a quorum of the Board of Directors cannot be readily
assembled because of some catastrophic event, and only in such event, these By-Laws shall, without further action by the Board of Directors, be deemed to have been amended for the duration of such emergency, as follows:   
   Section 1. Section 6 of Article II shall read as follows:    
  Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting
of the Board of Directors called in accordance with these By-Laws.       Section 2. The first sentence of Section 10
of Article II shall read as follows:       Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by order of
the chairman of the Board of Directors or a deputy chairman (if any), or of the president (if any) or any vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any) or any director or of any person having the powers and duties of the chairman of the Board of
Directors, the deputy chairman, the president or any vice chairman of the Board of Directors.       Section 3.
Section 12 of Article II shall read as follows:       The directors present at any regular or special meeting called in
accordance with these By-Laws shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting, and the action of a majority of such directors shall be the act of the Board of Directors, provided, however, that in the event that only one
director is present at any such meeting no action except the election of directors shall be taken until at least two additional directors have been elected and are in attendance.   
         -11-

</EX-3.2>

<EX-10.25>
 3
 dex1025.htm
 BENEFIT EQUALIZATION PLAN

Benefit Equalization Plan 

Exhibit 10.25        BENEFIT EQUALIZATION PLAN        Effective September 2, 1974
       (As amended and in effect as of January 1, 2010)    

BENEFIT EQUALIZATION PLAN    
   TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page   

ARTICLE I   
      
  DEFINITIONS  

3  

ARTICLE II   
      
  BENEFIT EQUALIZATION RETIREMENT ALLOWANCES, BENEFIT EQUALIZATION PROFIT-SHARING ALLOWANCES AND BENEFIT EQUALIZATION COMBINED ALLOWANCES  

18  

ARTICLE III   
      
  FUNDS FROM WHICH ALLOWANCES ARE PAYABLE  

31  

ARTICLE IV   
      
  THE ADMINISTRATOR  

32  

ARTICLE V   
      
  AMENDMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF THE PLAN  

33  

ARTICLE VI   
      
  FORMS; COMMUNICATIONS  

34  

ARTICLE VII   
      
  INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS  

35  

ARTICLE VIII   
      
  CHANGE IN CONTROL PROVISIONS  

36  

EXHIBIT A:   
      
  ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS USED TO CALCULATE A SINGLE SUM PAYMENT  

39  

APPENDIX 1:   
      
  TP EMPLOYEES  

41  

APPENDIX 2:   
      
  BENEFIT FOR MICHAEL SZYMANCZYK  

42  

APPENDIX 3:   
      
  TAX ASSUMPTIONS  

43  

APPENDIX 4:   
      
  CALCULATION OF BENEFIT EXECUTIVE TRUST ARRANGEMENT PARTICIPANT  

44  

APPENDIX 5:   
      
  BENEFITS TO UST SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT PLAN PARTICIPANTS  

46  

BENEFIT EQUALIZATION PLAN    
   INTRODUCTION       The Benefit Equalization Plan governs the rights of an Employee whose benefit under the Retirement Plan or the Profit-Sharing Plan, or both Qualified Plans, is subject to one or more of the Statutory
Limitations, or to the nondiscrimination requirements of Section 401(a)(4) of the Code and the coverage requirements of Section 410(b) of the Code.      The Plan has been amended as of January 1, 2010, to include the participation of salaried employees of UST LLC and its affiliates who were participants in the UST LLC Retirement Income Plan for
Salaried Employees (the substantive terms of which are now in Part V of the Retirement Plan as a result of the merger of the assets and liabilities of that plan with and into the assets and liabilities of the Retirement Plan after the close of
business on December 31, 2009). In addition, the liabilities of the UST Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan, UST Inc. Excess Retirement Benefit Plan and UST Inc. Officers  Supplemental Retirement Plan with respect to the limitations applicable
to plans qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code ( e.g. , Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code) have been merged into and assumed by the Plan.      The Plan as hereinafter set forth shall be effective with respect to Employees who incur a Separation from Service on or after January 1, 2010, except as otherwise provided herein. The rights of a
person whose Separation from Service or date of becoming an Inactive Participant is before January 1, 2010, shall be governed by the provisions of the plan (or the plan, the liabilities of which have been assumed by this Plan, in which such
former employee participated on the date of his termination of employment) as in effect on his Separation from Service or date of becoming an Inactive Participant, as the case may be, except to the extent that the Administrator has determined in his
sole discretion to administer the Plan in good faith compliance with Section 409A of the Code and any then published guidance so as to not subject any Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and Grandfathered Benefit
Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance to Section 409A of the Code.      The Plan is comprised of four separate plans,
programs or arrangements. Each plan shall be treated as a separate plan, program or arrangement from the other plans. One of the plans provides benefits to a Retired Employee (or his Spouse or other Beneficiary) solely in excess of the
Section 415 Limitations; the second plan provides benefits to a Retired Employee (or his Spouse or other Beneficiary) attributable solely to the Compensation Limitation; the third plan provides benefits to a Retired Employee (or his Spouse or
other Beneficiary) because payment of the benefit from one or both of the Qualified Plans could result in a failure to meet the nondiscrimination requirements of Section 401(a)(4) of the Code or the coverage requirements of Section 410(b)
of the Code; and the fourth plan provides benefits to a TP Employee who resumed active participation in the Plan, effective January 1, 2008.      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the provisions of this Plan, (1) no amounts shall be deemed credited or accrued under the Plan after December 31, 2004, to the extent the
Administrator determines that the accrual, crediting or payment of such amounts under the terms of the Plan or related arrangements would risk subjecting Plan participants to taxation or penalties under Section 409A of the Code, and
(2) the Plan terms applicable to any amounts   
         1   

determined by the Administrator to be deferred compensation subject to the requirements of such Section 409A may be modified by the Administrator to the extent it deems necessary or
appropriate to ensure compliance with such requirements. The Administrator may take any such action with respect to some participants but not others as it in its sole discretion deems appropriate under the circumstances.   
         2   

ARTICLE I        DEFINITIONS       The following terms as used herein and in the Preamble shall
have the meanings set forth below. Any capitalized term used herein or in the Preamble and not defined below shall have the meaning set forth in the Retirement Plan or the Profit-Sharing Plan, as the context may require.   
  (a)   Actuarial Equivalent   shall mean a benefit which is at least equivalent in value to the benefit otherwise payable
pursuant to the terms of the Plan, based on the actuarial principles and assumptions set forth in  Exhibit I  to the Retirement Plan.      (b)   After-Tax BEP Combined Allowance   shall mean the amount by which (i) the TP Employee s Gross After-Tax BEP Combined Allowance exceeds (ii) his Trust Account TP Value.
     (c)   Allowance   or   Allowances   shall mean a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance,
determined under ARTICLE IIA of the Plan, a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance, determined under ARTICLE IIB of the Plan and a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance determined under ARTICLE IIC of the Plan.   
  (d)   Assumed Trust Account TP   shall mean the assumed trust account established pursuant to a TP Employee s
Supplemental Enrollment Agreement.      (e)   Beneficiary   shall mean:   
  (i) In the case of a Retired Employee who is to receive all or a portion of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance or Benefit
Equalization Combined Allowance after his Separation from Service in a Single Sum Payment pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(1)(a), IIE(1)(b) or IIE(1)(c)(ii) of the Plan, but who dies after his Separation from Service and before such Single Sum Payment is
made, the Beneficiary of such Single Sum Payment shall be the Spouse to whom he was married on the date of death; provided, however, that if the Retired Employee is not married on the date of his death, the Beneficiary of such Single Sum Payment
shall be the Retired Employee s estate.      (ii) In the case of a Grandfathered Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant
who has elected pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(3) of the Plan to receive, after his Separation from Service, that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance equal to the Grandfathered Benefit
Equalization Retirement Allowance in the form of an Optional Payment described in ARTICLE I(dd)(i)(2) or (3) of the Plan, the person or persons designated by the Grandfathered Employee to receive (or who, pursuant to the terms of such
Optional Payment, will receive) after his death a benefit according to the option elected by the Grandfathered Employee.   
  (iii) In the case of an Employee or Retired Employee who has been credited with a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance and who
dies prior to the payment of such Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance (or prior to the payment of the then remaining balance of such Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in the case of a Grandfathered
  
         3   

Employee who has elected pursuant to ARTICLE IIF(3) of the Plan to receive that portion of his Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance equal to the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization
Profit-Sharing Allowance in the form of an Optional Payment described in ARTICLE I(dd)(ii) of the Plan), the Beneficiary of such Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance (or remaining balance thereof) shall be the beneficiary or beneficiaries
of such former Employee who is or are to receive the balance in such former Employee s account under the Profit-Sharing Plan.      (f)   Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance   shall mean the benefit determined under ARTICLE IIC of the Plan and payable at the times and in the form set forth in ARTICLE IIE of the
Plan.      (g)   Benefit Equalization Joint and Survivor Allowance   shall mean the total amount that would be
payable during a twelve (12) month period as a reduced Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance to a Retired Employee for life and after his death the amount payable to his Spouse for life equal to one-half of the reduced Benefit Equalization
Retirement Allowance payable to the Retired Employee (regardless of whether such form of benefit was available to such Retired Employee and his Spouse), or in such other amount as described in ARTICLE IIC(2) of the Plan, which together shall be the
Actuarial Equivalent of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance of the Retired Employee.      (h)   Benefit
Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance   or   Profit-Sharing Allowance   shall mean      (i) with respect to
Allowances other than a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance, the benefit determined under ARTICLE IIB of the Plan and payable at the times and in the forms set forth in ARTICLE IIF of the Plan; and   
  (ii) with respect to a Profit-Sharing Allowance that is a portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance, the benefit determined
under ARTICLE IIC of the Plan and payable at the times and in the forms set forth in ARTICLE IIF of the Plan.      The Benefit
Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance shall be comprised of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance, if any, and the remaining portion of such Allowance. The Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance shall not include a
UST Employee s UST Plan Benefit.      (i)   Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance   shall mean the benefit
determined under ARTICLE IIA of the Plan and payable at the times and in the forms set forth in ARTICLE IIE of the Plan. The Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall be comprised of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement
Allowance, if any, and the remaining portion of such Allowance. The Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall not include a UST Employee s UST Plan Benefit.      (j)   Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance   shall mean the benefit payable to:      (i) the Spouse of a Deceased Employee; and   
         4   

(ii) the Spouse of a deceased Retired Employee;   
  in an amount equal to one-half of the reduced Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance which would have been payable in the form of a Benefit
Equalization Joint and Survivor Allowance to the Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee (regardless of whether such form of benefit was available to such Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee), or in such other amount as described
in ARTICLE IIC(2) of the Plan.      (k)   BEP Benefit Commencement Date   shall mean the date on which the benefit
to which the recipient is entitled is paid or commences to be paid pursuant to the application filed in accordance with ARTICLE IIG of the Plan, or if no such application is filed, in accordance with the terms of the Plan as determined in the
sole discretion of the Administrator. All such Allowances not paid in a Single Sum Payment are paid in arrears so that the actual date of payment shall be the first day of the calendar month next succeeding the BEP Benefit Commencement Date.
     (1) (i) Except as provided in clauses (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) of this ARTICLE I(k)(1) of the Plan, the BEP Benefit
Commencement Date of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance shall be the Payment Date, but not later than the Latest Payment Date.   
  (ii) (A) Except as provided in clauses (B) and (C) of this ARTICLE I(k)(1)(ii) of the Plan, the BEP Benefit
Commencement Date of that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable in the form of an Optional Payment pursuant to an election under ARTICLE IIE(3) of the
Plan to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant shall be the Benefit Commencement Date of the Grandfathered Retired Employee s Full, Deferred or Early Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan.   
  (B) The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the
Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable in the form of an Optional Payment with respect to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who voluntarily retires within the one (1) year period following the date of the filing of his
application for an Optional Payment with the Administrator pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(3) of the Plan, or whose employment is terminated for misconduct (as determined by the Management Committee) within such one (1) year period, shall be the
first day of the month following the expiration of the one (1) year period following the date of the filing of his application for an Optional Payment.      (C) The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of the benefit payable pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(3)(f) of the Plan to the Beneficiary of a Grandfathered Retired Employee who died after his Date of Retirement and
prior to his BEP Benefit Commencement Date shall be the first day of the month following the death of the deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee.   
         5   

(iii) The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of (A) that portion of a
Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable to a Retired TP Employee and (B) that portion of a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit
Equalization Retirement Allowance payable to a Grandfathered Retired Employee, who in each case is only eligible for a Vested Retirement Allowance at his Separation from Service, shall be the Benefit Commencement Date of the Retired Employee s
Vested Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan.      (iv) The BEP Benefit Commencement
Date of any Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance described in ARTICLE IIA(1)(e) of the Plan and of any Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance described in ARTICLE IIC(1)(e) of the Plan shall be the benefit commencement date of such
Allowance as set forth in the General Release Agreement; provided, however, that if no time of payment is specified, the BEP Benefit Commencement Date shall be the Payment Date, but no later than the 15   th    day of the third month following the end of the Employee s
Participating Company first taxable year in which the right is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture; provided, however, that no such Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance or Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance shall change
either the time or form of payment of the Allowance (including a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance) otherwise payable pursuant to the terms of the Plan.   
  (v) The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the
Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is payable in the form of an Optional Payment pursuant to an election under ARTICLE IIF(3) of the Plan to a TP Employee shall be the date specified in the application.   
  (2) (i) (A) Except as provided in clause (B) of this ARTICLE I(k)(2)(i) of the Plan, the BEP Benefit Commencement Date of the Benefit
Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance (other than the Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance of a TP Employee which shall be paid as part of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance pursuant to Article I(k)(1) of the Plan) shall be the
Payment Date, but not later than the Latest Payment Date.      (B) The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of that
portion of a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is payable in the form of an Optional Payment pursuant to an election under ARTICLE IIF(3) of the Plan to a
Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant shall be the date specified in the application.      (3) (i) (A)
Except as provided in clause (B) of this ARTICLE I(k)(3)(i), the BEP Benefit Commencement Date of the Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance payable to the Spouse of a Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee shall be the Survivor
Allowance Payment Date, but not later than the Survivor Allowance Latest Payment Date.   
         6   

(B) The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of that portion of the Benefit
Equalization Survivor Allowance that is derived from (i) the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or (ii) the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance
that is payable to:      (1) the Spouse of a Grandfathered Deceased Employee; or   
  (2) the Spouse of a deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee,   
  shall, in each case, be the Benefit Commencement Date of the Survivor Allowance payable to such Spouse under the Retirement Plan, provided
that the Spouse may elect in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs G2.05(c) and (d)(2) of Part I of the Retirement Plan, as applicable to the Spouse, that the BEP Benefit Commencement Date be the first day of any month thereafter, but not
later than the later of (i) the first day of the second calendar month following the month in which the Grandfathered Deceased Employee or deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee died (or if his date of birth was on the first day of a calendar
month, the first day of the calendar month next following the calendar month in which the Grandfathered Deceased Employee or deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee died), or (ii) the date that would have been the Grandfathered Deceased
Employee s or deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee s Unreduced Early Retirement Benefit Commencement Date.      (l)
  Change in Circumstance   shall mean, with respect to a Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant:      (i) the marriage of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee;   
  (ii) the divorce of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee from his spouse (determined in accordance with applicable
state law), provided:       

(1)  
  such spouse was the Beneficiary who is to receive an Optional Payment, or         

(2)  
  the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee elected pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(3) of the Plan to receive an Optional Payment pursuant to
ARTICLE I(dd)(i) of the Plan;        (iii) the death of the Beneficiary designated by the Grandfathered Employee
or Grandfathered Retired Employee to receive an Optional Payment after the death of the Grandfathered Retired Employee; or   
  (iv) a medical condition of the Beneficiary, based on medical evidence satisfactory to the Administrator, which is expected to result in
the death of the Beneficiary within five (5) years of the filing of an application for change in   
         7   

Optional Payment method pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(3) or ARTICLE IIF(3) hereof.      (m)   Code   means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.      (n)   Company   shall mean Altria Client Services Inc. Altria Client Services Inc. is the sponsor of the Plan.      (o)   Compensation   shall have the same meaning as in the applicable Part of the Retirement Plan, except that in computing the Retirement Allowance and Benefit Equalization Retirement
Allowance of an Employee in salary bands A and B who was not age fifty-five (55) or older at December 31, 2006, Compensation for Plan years on and after January 1, 2007, shall mean the lesser of his (i) base salary, plus annual
incentive award, and (ii) base salary, plus annual incentive award at a business rating of 100 and individual performance rating of  Exceeds .      (p)   Compensation Limitation   shall mean the limitation of Section 401(a)(17) of the Code on the annual compensation of an Employee which may be taken into account under the
Qualified Plans.      (q)   Earned and Vested   shall mean, when referring to an Allowance or any portion of an
Allowance, an amount that, as of January 1, 2005, is not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.83-3(c)) or a requirement to perform future services.   
  (r)   Employee   shall mean any person employed by a Participating Company who has accrued a benefit under the Retirement
Plan or the Profit-Sharing Plan, but whose entire accrued benefit, if computed without regard to the Statutory Limitations, cannot be paid under the Retirement Plan or the Profit-Sharing Plan, or either of such Qualified Plans, as a result of the
Statutory Limitations, provided that an Employee shall not include a TP Employee, but only with respect to those calendar years in which he was a participant in such arrangement. An Employee shall include a UST Employee but only with respect to any
benefit earned under the Profit-Sharing Plan on or after January 1, 2010, and disregarding any part of the UST Employee s UST Plan Benefit earned on and after such date.   
  (s)   ERISA   means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.   
  (t)   Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Joint and Survivor Allowance   shall mean the total amount that would be payable
during a twelve (12) month period as a reduced Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance to a Grandfathered Retired Employee for life and after his death the amount payable to his Spouse for life equal to one-half of the reduced
Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable to the Grandfathered Retired Employee, which together shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of (i) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered
Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, or (ii) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that   
         8   

is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance of the Retired Grandfathered Employee.      (u)   Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance   shall mean, with respect a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant, (i) with respect to
that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, or (ii) with respect to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered
Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, the total amount payable during a twelve (12) month period in accordance with one of the payment methods described in Paragraph G2.04(d) of Part I of the Retirement Plan and designated by the
Grandfathered Retired Employee in his application for an Optional Payment under ARTICLE IIE(3) of the Plan, pursuant to which the Grandfathered Retired Employee receives for life after his Date of Retirement a reduced Grandfathered Benefit
Equalization Retirement Allowance in equal monthly payments for life and after his death after his Date of Retirement his Beneficiary receives for life a benefit in equal monthly payments according to the option elected by the Grandfathered Retired
Employee, which together shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable in equal monthly payments for the life of the Grandfathered Retired Employee after his Date of Retirement.   
  (v)   Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance   shall mean (i) that portion of a Grandfathered
Retired Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance, or (ii) that portion of a Grandfathered Retired Employee s Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the
Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance, in each case as of December 31, 2004, the right to which is Earned and Vested as of December 31, 2004, plus any future contributions to the account, the right to which was Earned and Vested as
of December 31, 2004, but only to the extent such contributions are actually made, plus earnings (whether actual or notional) attributable to such Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance as of December 31, 2004, or to
such income.      (w)   Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance   shall mean the present value of
(i) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, or (ii) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, in each case earned to December 31, 2004, to
which the Grandfathered Employee or Retired Grandfathered Employee would have been entitled under the Plan if he had voluntarily terminated services without cause on or before December 31, 2004, and received payment of such benefit on the
earliest permissible date following termination of employment in the form with the greatest value, expressed for purposes of this calculation as a single life annuity commencing at age 65; provided, however, that for any subsequent year such
Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance may increase to equal the present value of such portion of his benefit the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee actually becomes entitled to, in the form and at the time
actually paid, determined in accordance with the terms of the Plan (including applicable Statutory Limitations) as in effect on October 3, 2004, without regard to any further services rendered by the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered
Retired Employee after December 31, 2004, or any other events affecting the   
         9   

amount of or the entitlement to benefits (other than an election with respect to the time and form of an available benefit).   
  In computing that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the
Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance of a Grandfathered Employee who is eligible for an Early Retirement Allowance, whether reduced or unreduced (but is not eligible for a Full or Deferred Retirement Allowance) under the
Retirement Plan as of the Grandfathered Employee s Separation from Service, or, in the discretion of the Administrator, the end of the Grandfathered Employee s policy severance, such Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance
shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of that portion of the Grandfathered Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, computed
as though such benefit were payable under the terms of the Retirement Plan in the form of a Retirement Allowance commencing on the first day of the month coincident with or next following the Grandfathered Employee s Separation from Service or,
in the discretion of the Administrator, the end of the Grandfathered Employee s policy severance; provided, however, that solely for purposes of determining the early retirement factor to be applied in determining the Actuarial Equivalent of
such benefit, the earliest date on which the Grandfathered Employee shall be treated as being entitled to an unreduced benefit under the Retirement Plan for purposes of Exhibit 1 to the Retirement Plan shall be the earliest date on which the
Grandfathered Employee would have been entitled to an unreduced benefit if the Grandfathered Employee had voluntarily terminated employment on December 31, 2004.      (x)   Grandfathered Deceased Employee   shall mean a Grandfathered Employee who died while he was an Employee at a time when he had a nonforfeitable right to any portion of his Benefit
Equalization Retirement Allowance.      (y)   Grandfathered Employee   shall mean:   
  (i) an Employee who is entitled to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Retirement
Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that was Earned and Vested; or      (ii) an Employee
who is entitled to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance,   
  and who, in either instance, is a participant in the executive trust or is a Secular Trust Participant.   
  (z)   Grandfathered Retired Employee   shall mean:   
  (i) a Grandfathered Employee who has retired and is eligible for that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit
Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that was Earned and Vested; and   
         10   

(ii) a Grandfathered Employee who has retired and is eligible for that portion of his
Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance.      (aa)   Gross After-Tax BEP Combined Allowance   shall be equal to the amount that would remain if income taxes (determined as if withholding for federal, state and local income taxes were
effected at the rates specified in  Appendix 3 ), but disregarding any withholding for the TP Employee s share of employment taxes, were withheld on the sum of (i) that portion of the TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined
Allowance that is the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and (ii) that portion of the TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the
Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance and that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance.   
  (bb)   Latest Payment Date   shall mean the later of:   
  (i) December 31   st    of the year in which the Payment Date occurs, and   
  (ii) the fifteenth day of the third month following the Payment Date.   
  (cc)   Letter Agreement   shall mean a binding agreement between the UST Employee and UST LLC with respect to the
cessation of benefits on December 31, 2008, under the UST Supplemental Retirement Plan, the dollar amount of such benefit for each affected UST Employee is listed on Appendix 5. Such UST Employees are referred to as UST Supplemental Retirement
Plan Participants.      (dd)   Optional Payment   shall mean:   
  (i) the following optional forms in which that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Retirement
Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance of a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant may be paid:       

(1)  
  in equal monthly payments for the life of the Grandfathered Retired Employee;     

(2)  
  a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Joint and Survivor Allowance; or         

(3)  
  a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance; and        (ii) in the case of that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance of a
Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee, any of the methods of distribution permitted under ARTICLE VI of the Profit-Sharing Plan (other than a Single Sum Payment payable at the BEP Benefit Commencement Date described in ARTICLE
I(k)(2)(i)(A) of the Plan) and in the event the Grandfathered Employee or   
         11   

Grandfathered Retired Employee dies before distribution of that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered
Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance is made, commences to be made or is fully distributed, to his Beneficiary in accordance with the method of distribution designated by such Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee;
provided however, that payment to a Beneficiary who is not the Spouse of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee shall be made no later than one (1) year following the death of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered
Retired Employee.      Any election to receive an Optional Payment with respect to any Allowance or Allowances under the Plan shall
be independent of any election with respect to benefits payable under the Retirement Plan, the Profit-Sharing Plan, or any other plan of a member of the Controlled Group.      (ee)   Payment Date   shall mean:      (i) with respect to payment of a
benefit under the Plan other than a UST Plan Benefit, the first day of the third calendar month following the month in which the Employee Separates from Service; provided, however, that:   
  (1) in all cases of a Separation from Service other than on account of death, the Payment Date in the case of a Specified Employee shall
be the first day of the seventh calendar month following the date that such Specified Employee Separates from Service; and   
  (ii) in all cases of a payment due under the Plan with respect to a UST Plan Benefit on behalf of a UST Employee that would have been
payable pursuant to Part V of the Retirement Plan but for the Statutory Limitations or for any other reason but that are payable pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, the Payment Date shall be as described in (1) or (2) depending on
whether or not the UST Employee is a UST Supplemental Retirement Plan Participant.      (1) For a UST Employee who is not a UST
Supplemental Retirement Plan Participant, Payment Date shall mean the first of the month following the latest of:      (A)
January 31, 2009,      (B) the UST Employee s Separation from Service, or   
  (C) the UST Employee s attainment of age fifty-five (55);   
  if the UST Employee dies after the Payment Date but before actual payment is made, the Payment Date shall be the day
following the date of death, but no later than December 31   st    of the year in which the UST Employee dies; and   
         12   

(2) For a UST Employee who is a UST Supplemental Retirement Plan Participant, Payment Date
shall mean the earlier of:      (A) the date of the Separation from Service if such separation occurs within two years of
January 6, 2009; or      (B) December 31, 2010;   
  and if the UST Employee dies after the Payment Date but before actual payment is made, the Payment Date shall be the
day following the date of death, but no later than December 31   st    of the year in which the UST Employee dies; and provided, however, that nothing in this Plan shall be deemed to change the time or form of payment pursuant to the provisions of the UST Plans as in effect
immediately prior to December 31, 2009, and provided, further, that the Payment Date in the case of a Specified Employee shall be the later of (i) the applicable date specified in (2)(A) or (B) above, or (ii) the first day
of the seventh calendar month following the date that such Specified Employee Separates from Service.      The names of each UST
Supplemental Retirement Plan Participant and the lump sum value of the benefit accrued to December 31, 2008, and payable on the Payment Date specified in this clause (2), are set forth in Appendix 5.   
  (ff)   Plan   shall mean the Benefit Equalization Plan described herein and in any amendments hereto.   
  (gg)   Profit-Sharing Plan   shall mean the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Salaried Employees, effective January 1,
1956, and as amended from time to time.      (hh)   Qualified Plans   shall mean the Retirement Plan and the
Profit-Sharing Plan.      (ii)   Retired Employee   shall mean a former Employee who is eligible for or in receipt
of, an Allowance. A Retired Employee shall cease to be such when he has received all of the Allowances payable to him under the Plan.      (jj)   Retired TP Employee   shall mean a former TP Employee who is eligible for or in receipt of, an Allowance pursuant to ARTICLE IIC of the Plan. A Retired TP Employee shall cease to be
such when he has received all of the Allowances payable to him under the Plan.      (kk)   Retirement Plan   shall
mean Parts I and II of the Altria Retirement Plan, effective as of September 1, 1978, and as amended from time to time.   
  (ll)   Section 415 Limitations   shall mean:   
         13   

(i) in the case of the Retirement Plan, the limitations on benefits applicable to defined
benefit plans set forth in Section 415 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, and      (ii) in the
case of the Profit-Sharing Plan, the limitations on contributions applicable to defined contribution plans set forth in Section 415 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.   
  (mm)   Secular Trust Participant   shall mean a Grandfathered Employee who signed an enrollment agreement to participate
in the Secular Trust.      (nn)   Separation from Service,     Separates from Service   or
  Separated from Service   shall each have the same meaning as the term  separation from service  in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h)(1); provided, however, that with respect to the payment of any Grandfathered
Allowance that is not subject to Section 409A of the Code, such terms shall mean the date that the Employee terminated his services as an Employee with his Participating Company and each other member of the Controlled Group.   
  (oo)   Single Sum Payment   shall mean payment of a benefit or portion of a benefit in a single payment to a Retired
Employee, or to the Spouse or other Beneficiary of an Employee, Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee. A Single Sum Payment shall be (i) the Actuarial Equivalent of all or that portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance
or Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance payable in equal monthly payments during a twelve (12) month period for the life of the Retired Employee, and (ii) the Actuarial Equivalent of the (or portion of the) Benefit Equalization Survivor
Allowance payable in equal monthly payments during a twelve (12) month period for the life of the Spouse of the Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee, in each case using the actuarial principles and assumptions set forth in
 EXHIBIT   A  to the Plan; provided, however, that a Single Sum Payment with respect to a Grandfathered Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant shall equal the greater of (i) the amount determined pursuant to the foregoing
provisions of this ARTICLE I(oo) and (ii) the amount required to purchase a single life annuity (or, for purposes of  Appendix 2 , a Benefit Equalization Joint and Survivor Allowance) equal to the benefit otherwise identified under the
Plan from a licensed commercial insurance company, as determined in the sole discretion of the Administrator.      (i) A Single Sum
Payment shall be the exclusive form of distribution of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance (including payments with respect to benefits earned under the UST Plans), except with respect to:   
  (1) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance derived solely from the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement
Allowance and that is payable to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is only eligible for a Vested Retirement Allowance at his Separation from Service; and      (2) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance derived solely from the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement   
         14   

Allowance and that is payable to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant who has timely elected to receive after his Date of Retirement that portion of his Benefit
Equalization Retirement Allowance equal to the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in the form of an Optional Payment pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(3)(a) of the Plan and which election does not cease to be of any force and effect
pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(3)(d) of the Plan.      (ii) A Single Sum Payment shall be the exclusive form of distribution of the
Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance, except with respect to:      (1) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined
Allowance derived solely from the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and that is payable to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is only eligible for a Vested Retirement Allowance at his Separation from Service; and   
  (2) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance derived solely from the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement
Allowance and that is payable to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who has timely elected to receive after his Date of Retirement that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance equal to the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement
Allowance in the form of an Optional Payment pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(3)(a) of the Plan and which election does not cease to be of any force and effect pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(3)(d) of the Plan.   
  (iii) A Single Sum Payment shall be the exclusive form of distribution of the Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance, except with respect
to that portion of the Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance derived solely from that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement
Allowance payable to the Spouse of a Grandfathered Deceased Employee or the Spouse of a deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee.   
  (iv) A Single Sum Payment shall be the exclusive form of distribution of the Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance, except with
respect to that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance payable to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a
Secular Trust Participant who has timely elected to receive after his Date of Retirement that portion of his Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance equal to the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in the form of an
Optional Payment pursuant to ARTICLE IIF(3) of the Plan.      (pp)   Specified Employee   shall have the
meaning given in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(i).   
         15   

(qq)   Statutory Limitations   shall mean:   
  (i) the Section 415 Limitations, and      (ii) the Compensation Limitation.      (rr)   Supplemental Enrollment
Agreement   shall mean the most recent of any Supplemental Employee Grantor Trust Enrollment Agreements and Supplemental Cash Enrollment Agreements between a TP Employee and a Participating Company or their affiliates or predecessors.
     (ss)   Survivor Allowance Latest Payment Date   shall mean the later of:   
  (i) December 31   st    of the year in which the Survivor Allowance Payment Date occurs, or   
  (ii) the fifteenth day of the third month following the Survivor Allowance Payment Date.   
  (tt)   Survivor Allowance Payment Date   shall mean the first day of the third calendar month following the month in which
the Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee died.      (uu)   TP Employee   shall mean an Employee
identified in  Appendix 1 , as a result of his participation in the target payment program for the calendar years 2005 through 2007.      (vv)   Trust Account TP   shall mean the trust subaccount established pursuant to a Employee s Supplemental Enrollment Agreement and to which target payments have been credited.
     (ww)   Trust Account TP Value   shall mean,   
  (i) with respect to a TP Employee for whom a Trust Account TP has been established, the sum of the amounts credited to the TP
Employee s Assumed Trust Account TP and Trust Account TP as of the earlier of the date:      (1) on which the TP
Employee s Trust Account TP is terminated and distributed in accordance with the procedures established by the Administrator,      (2) that is 60 days after the TP Employee s Separation from Service, or      (3)
on which a Change in Control occurs, and      (ii) with respect to a TP Employee for whom a Trust Account TP has not been
established, the amounts credited to the TP Employee s Assumed Trust Account TP as of the earlier of the date:   
         16   

(1) of the TP Employee s Separation from Service, or   
  (2) on which a Change in Control occurs,      in each case, reduced by the estimated amount of any taxes that would be attributable to income or assumed income from these accounts assuming liquidation of the accounts as of the applicable
determination date set out above, but which have not been paid or deducted from these accounts, calculated using the income tax rate assumptions set forth in  Appendix 3  and disregarding any withholding for the TP Employee s share of
employment taxes.      (xx)   UST Plan Benefit   shall mean the benefit earned by a UST Employee under the terms of
the UST Plans as in effect on December 31, 2009, (including the provisions of the UST LLC Retirement Income Plan for Salaried Employees that ceased the earning of any service used to compute the amount of a UST Employee s benefits as of
December 31, 2009), including any increase in such benefit as a result of Compensation paid after December 31, 2009, and vesting service completed after December 31, 2009, that is used to determine if the UST Employee is eligible for
any early retirement subsidy.      (yy)   UST Employee   shall mean an Employee who has accrued a UST Plan Benefit.
     (zz)   UST Plans   shall mean:      (i) the UST Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan, as amended and in effect immediately prior to the merger of that portion of its liabilities allocable to benefits that were payable from the Benefit Restoration
Plan solely as a result of the limitations on compensation under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code into the liabilities of the Plan;      (ii) the UST Inc. Excess Retirement Benefit Plan, as amended and in effect immediately prior to the merger of its liabilities into the liabilities of the Plan; and   
  (iii) the UST Inc. Officers  Supplemental Retirement Plan, as amended and in effect immediately prior to the merger of its
liabilities into the liabilities of the Plan.      (aaa)   UST Supplemental Retirement Plan Participant   shall
mean a UST Employee who was an  Eligible Employee  and who meets the requirements to become a  Participant  in the UST Inc. Officers  Supplemental Retirement Plan (whether such Eligible Employee meets such requirements
before or after December 31, 2009). The UST Plan Benefit payable to a UST Supplemental Retirement Plan Participant on the Payment Date set forth in Article I(ee)(ii)(2) is set forth in  Appendix 5  to this Plan.   
  The masculine pronoun shall include the feminine pronoun unless the context clearly requires otherwise.   
         17   

ARTICLE II        BENEFIT EQUALIZATION RETIREMENT ALLOWANCES, BENEFIT        EQUALIZATION
PROFIT-SHARING ALLOWANCES AND BENEFIT        EQUALIZATION COMBINED ALLOWANCES    

A.  
  Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowances and other benefits payable under this Plan with respect to a Retired Employee who was not a TP Employee shall be as follows:
       (1) (a) Subject to the provisions of subparagraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this ARTICLE IIA(1), the Benefit
Equalization Retirement Allowance with respect to a Retired Employee who was not a TP Employee shall equal the sum of (i) and (ii) below:      (i) the amount by which the Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan accrued to the Date of Retirement, if computed without regard to the Statutory Limitations, exceeds the amount of the Retirement
Allowance actually payable under the Retirement Plan, plus      (ii) in the case of a Retired Employee who is eligible to receive
an enhanced benefit under the Qualified Plan (such as a benefit payable pursuant to a voluntary early retirement program or a shutdown benefit), but whose additional accrued benefit resulting solely from participation in such program or benefit may
not be paid from the Qualified Plan because of the nondiscrimination requirements of Section 401(a)(4) of the Code, or the coverage requirements of Section 410(b) of the Code, the amount of such additional accrued benefit payable to such
Retired Employee solely as a result of his participation in such program or benefit.      (b) In no event shall any
increase in a Grandfathered Employee s Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance resulting from an amendment to the Retirement Plan to add or remove a subsidized benefit, change the time and form of payment of the Benefit Equalization
Retirement Allowance earned prior to the date of such amendment.      (c) In the event that all or any portion of
the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance with respect to the Retired Employee described in ARTICLE IIA(1)(a) of the Plan is paid in a Single Sum Payment in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE IIE prior to the Retired
Employee s Benefit Commencement Date under the Retirement Plan, the amount of such Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall equal the amount by which the Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan accrued to the Date of Retirement,
if computed without regard to the Statutory Limitations, is reasonably estimated by the Administrator to exceed the amount of the Retirement Allowance which is projected by the Administrator to be actually payable under the Retirement Plan.
     (d) In the event that all or any portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance with respect to a
Retired Employee described in ARTICLE IIA(1)(a) of the Plan is paid in a Single Sum Payment in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE IIE prior to the date the Retired Employee shall have specified on his application for
  
         18   

retirement as the Benefit Commencement Date of his Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan, the Single Sum Payment shall be calculated based on the assumption that the Retired Employee
elected to receive a Retirement Allowance at his Unreduced Early Retirement Benefit Commencement Date or Unreduced Vested Retirement Benefit Commencement Date, as applicable to the Retired Employee.   
  (e) If, as a result of the execution of a General Release Agreement (and not revoking it), (A) an Employee first
obtains a legally binding right to payment of an increase in his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, (B) as of the first date the Employee obtains a legally binding right to such increase it is subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture
(within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(d)), then the amount of such increase in the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance with respect to such Employee shall be the amount as set forth in the General Release Agreement
and shall be payable at the BEP Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(iv) of the Plan provided, however that no such increase in an Employee s Benefit Equalization Allowance shall change either the time or form of payment of
the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance of a Grandfathered Employee otherwise payable pursuant to the terms of the Plan. The provisions of this paragraph are in lieu of, and not in addition to, the benefits provided pursuant to
the provisions of ARTICLE IIA(1)(a)(ii) of the Plan.      (2) The Spouse of   
  (a) a Deceased Employee (other than a TP Employee), or   
  (b) a deceased Retired Employee (other than a deceased Retired TP Employee and a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a
Secular Trust Participant who made an election for a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance and designated a Beneficiary other than his Spouse) who has died after his Date of Retirement and before his BEP Benefit Commencement
Date, or      (c) a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant whose request for an Optional
Payment pursuant to ARTICLE I(dd)(i)(2) or (3) of the Plan with respect to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Allowance has been granted by the Administrator, but who has
died after his Date of Retirement and before his BEP Benefit Commencement Date,      shall, in each case, be eligible to receive a
Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance.       

B.  
  Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowances payable under this Plan shall be as follows:     
  (1) The Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance with respect to an Employee who is not a TP Employee or a Match-Eligible Employee
shall equal the amounts which would have been credited, but were not credited to his Company Account as a result of the Statutory Limitations.   
         19   

(2) The Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance with respect to an Employee who is a
Match-Eligible Employee, but who is not a TP Employee shall equal the sum of (a) and (b) below:      (a)
the amounts which would have been credited, but were not credited to his Company Account as a result of the Statutory Limitations, plus      (b) the amount of Company Match Contributions that could not be made to the Profit-Sharing Plan for a calendar year as a result of the Statutory Limitations, based on the percentage of Compensation that
each Match-Eligible Employee had elected to make to the Profit-Sharing Plan for such calendar year.      (3) The amounts credited
pursuant to ARTICLE IIB(2)(a) shall be deemed credited on the same date as the Company Contribution is made to the Profit-Sharing Plan. The amounts credited pursuant to ARTICLE IIB(2)(b) shall be deemed credited on January 1 immediately
succeeding the calendar year for which such Company Match Contributions could not be made to the Profit-Sharing Plan. All such amounts shall be deemed to have been invested in Part C of the Fund (as defined in the Profit-Sharing Plan) and
valued in accordance with the provisions of the Profit-Sharing Plan.       

C.  
  Benefit Equalization Combined Allowances payable under this Plan shall be as follows:     
  (1) (a) Subject to the provisions of subparagraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this ARTICLE IIC of the Plan, the Benefit Equalization
Combined Allowance of a TP Employee shall be equal to the sum of clauses (i) and (ii) and subject to the proviso in clause (iii):      (i) the amount by which the Full, Deferred, Early or Vested Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan accrued to the Date of Retirement, expressed in the form of a Retirement Allowance, if computed
without regard to the Statutory Limitations, exceeds the amount of the Full, Deferred, Early or Vested Retirement Allowance actually payable under the Retirement Plan, expressed in the form of a Retirement Allowance.   
  (A) In computing the amount under ARTICLE IIC(1)(a)(i) with respect to a TP Employee who is eligible for a Full, Deferred or Vested
Retirement Allowance, but is not eligible for an Early Retirement Allowance as of the TP Employee s Separation from Service or, if later, the end of the TP Employee s policy severance, such Full, Deferred or Vested Allowance shall equal
the Actuarial Equivalent of the TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance (assuming that it is payable in monthly payments for the lifetime of the Employee), computed as though such Allowance were payable under the terms of the
Retirement Plan as a Retirement Allowance at the later of age sixty-five (65), or the age of the TP Employee at his Separation from Service or, if later, the end of the TP Employee s policy severance. If such Allowance is to be paid in a Single
Sum Payment,   
         20   

such Full, Deferred or Vested Retirement Allowance shall equal the present value of such Allowance that would be payable to the former TP Employee as of the date he will attain the age of
sixty-five (65), determined as of the first day of the month following the month in which the former TP Employee Separated from Service (or died, in the case of a payment to the Spouse of the deceased TP Employee).   
  (B) In computing the amount under ARTICLE IIC(1)(a)(i) with respect to a TP Employee who is eligible for an Early Retirement Allowance,
whether reduced or unreduced, but is not eligible for a Full, Deferred or Vested Retirement Allowance, as of the TP Employee s Separation from Service or, if later, the end of the TP Employee s policy severance, such Early Retirement
Allowance shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance (assuming that it is payable in monthly payments for the lifetime of the Employee), computed as though such Allowance were payable under
the terms of the Retirement Plan as a Retirement Allowance commencing on the first day of the month coincident with or next following the Employee s Separation from Service, or, if later, at the end of the Employee s policy severance. If
such Allowance is to be paid in a Single Sum Payment, such Early Retirement Allowance shall equal the present value of such Allowance that would be payable to the former TP Employee as of the first day of the month coincident with or next following
the Employee s Separation from Service, or, if later, at the end of the Employee s policy severance date he will attain the age of sixty-five (65), determined as of the first day of the month following the month in which the former TP
Employee Separated from Service (or died, in the case of a payment to the Spouse of the deceased TP Employee); plus      (ii) the
amounts which would have been credited, but were not credited to his Company Account as a result of the Statutory Limitations;   
  (iii) provided, however, that, that portion of a TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance which is not his
Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance shall equal the amount of the TP Employee s After-Tax BEP Combined Allowance converted to a pre-tax amount. Such pre-tax
amount shall equal an amount sufficient to cause the amount remaining after withholding of income taxes (determined as if withholding for federal, state and local income taxes were effected at the rates specified in  Appendix 3 ), but
disregarding any withholding for the TP Employee s share of employment taxes, to equal the After-Tax BEP Combined Allowance.      (iv) A sample calculation of a TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance is set forth in  Appendix 4 .   
         21   

(b) In no event shall any increase in a TP Employee s Benefit
Equalization Combined Allowance resulting from an amendment to the Retirement Plan to add or remove a subsidized benefit, change the time and form of payment of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance earned prior to the date of such amendment.
     (c) In the event that all or any portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance with respect to the
Grandfathered Retired Employee described in ARTICLE IIC(1)(a) of the Plan is paid in a Single Sum Payment in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE IIE(1)(b) of the Plan prior to the TP Employee s Benefit Commencement Date under
the Retirement Plan, the amount of such Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is allocable to the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall equal the amount by which the Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan accrued to the Date
of Retirement, if computed without regard to the Statutory Limitations, is reasonably estimated by the Administrator to exceed the amount of the Retirement Allowance which is projected by the Administrator to be actually payable under the Retirement
Plan.      (d) In the event that all or any portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance with respect to
a Retired TP Employee described in ARTICLE IIC(1)(a) of the Plan is paid in a Single Sum Payment in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE IIE(1)(b) of the Plan prior to the date the Retired TP Employee shall have specified on his
application for retirement as the Benefit Commencement Date of his Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan, the Single Sum Payment shall be calculated based on the assumption that the Retired TP Employee elected to receive a Retirement
Allowance at his Unreduced Early Retirement Benefit Commencement Date or Unreduced Vested Retirement Benefit Commencement Date, as applicable to the Retired TP Employee.   
  (e) If, as a result of the execution of a General Release Agreement (and not revoking it), (A) a TP Employee first
obtains a legally binding right to payment of an increase in his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance, (B) as of the first date the TP Employee obtains a legally binding right to such increase it is subject to a substantial risk of
forfeiture (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(d)), then the amount of such increase in the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance with respect to such TP Employee shall be the amount as set forth in the General Release
Agreement and shall be payable at the BEP Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(iv) of the Plan, provided, however that no such increase in a TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance shall change either the time or
form of payment of that portion of the TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance allocable to the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance otherwise
payable pursuant to the terms of the Plan.      (2) The Spouse of a TP Employee or deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee who dies
before his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance is paid shall be eligible to receive that portion of the Grandfathered Employee s or deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Benefit
Equalization Survivor Allowance,   
         22   

provided that, with respect to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance allocable to his Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, the deceased Grandfathered
Retired Employee did not make an election for a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance and designated a Beneficiary other than his Spouse; and, provided, further, that with respect to that portion of his Benefit Equalization
Combined Allowance allocable to his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, such Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance shall be the amount calculated as follows:
     (a) Determine the amount, if any, by which (i) the Grandfathered Employee s Trust Account TP Value exceeds
(ii) the amount calculated under ARTICLE IIC(3)(a) below.      (b) If the TP Employee dies before terminating employment with
the Controlled Group, determine one half of the amount that would be that portion of the Grandfathered Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is not the Grandfathered
Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance if (i) the TP Employee had survived and had a Separation from Service on his date of death and (ii) the term Benefit Equalization Joint and Survivor Allowance were substituted for the term
Retirement Allowance in each place that such term appears in ARTICLE IIA(1)(a) of the Plan.      (c) Determine the amount that
would remain if income taxes (determined as if withholding for federal, state and local income taxes were effected at the rates specified in  Appendix 3 , but disregarding any withholding for the Grandfathered Employee s share of
employment taxes) were withheld on the amount determined under ARTICLE IIC(2)(b).      (d) If the TP Employee dies after
terminating employment with the Controlled Group but before his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, determine the amount that would remain if income taxes (determined as if withholding for federal, state and local income taxes were effected at the rates
specified in  Appendix 3 ), but disregarding any withholding for the Grandfathered Employee s share of employment taxes, were withheld on that portion of the Grandfathered Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is his
Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance.      (e) The
portion of the Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall equal an amount sufficient to cause the amount remaining after withholding of income taxes (determined as if
withholding for federal, state and local income taxes were effected at the rates specified in  Appendix 3 , but disregarding any withholding for the Grandfathered Employee s share of employment taxes) to equal:   
         23   

(i) If the TP Employee dies before terminating employment with the Controlled Group, the
amount by which (i) the amount determined under ARTICLE IIC(2)(c) of the Plan exceeds (ii) the remaining Trust Account TP Value, if any, determined under ARTICLE IIC(2)(a) of the Plan; or   
  (ii) If the TP Employee dies after terminating employment with the Controlled Group but before his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, the
amount by which (i) the amount determined under ARTICLE IIC(2)(d) of the Plan exceeds (ii) the remaining Trust Account TP Value, if any, determined under ARTICLE IIC(2)(a) of the Plan.   
  (3) If a Grandfathered Employee dies before his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance has been paid, the Grandfathered Employee s
Beneficiary shall be eligible to receive that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance allocable to his Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance; provided that the portion of such Allowance that is not the Grandfathered Benefit
Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance shall be in an amount calculated as follows:      (a) Determine the amount
that would remain if income taxes (determined as if withholding for federal, state and local income taxes were effected at the rates specified in  Appendix 3 , but disregarding any withholding for the Grandfathered Employee s share of
employment taxes) were withheld on that portion of the Grandfathered Employee s Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance.   
  (b) Determine the amount, if any, by which (i) the amount determined under ARTICLE IIC(3)(a) exceeds (ii) the
Grandfathered Employee s Trust Account TP Value.      (c) The portion of such Benefit Equalization
Profit-Sharing Allowance that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance payable under this ARTICLE IIC(3) shall equal an amount sufficient to cause the amount remaining after withholding of income taxes (determined as if
withholding for federal, state and local income taxes were effected at the rates specified in  Appendix 3 , but disregarding any withholding for the Grandfathered Employee s share of employment taxes) to equal the amount, if any,
determined under ARTICLE IIC(3)(b).      (4) The Beneficiary of a Grandfathered Retired Employee whose request for an Optional
Payment in the form of a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance has been granted by the Administrator, but who dies after his Date of Retirement and prior to his BEP Benefit Commencement Date shall be eligible to receive that
portion of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance elected by the Grandfathered Retired Employee which is payable after the death of the Grandfathered Retired Employee.   
  (5) The Spouse of a Grandfathered Retired Employee whose request for an Optional Payment pursuant to clauses (2) or (3) of
ARTICLE I(dd)(i) of the Plan with respect to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Allowance has been granted by the Administrator, but who dies after his Date of
  
         24   

Retirement and prior to his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, shall be eligible to receive a Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance.   

D.  
  UST Plan Benefit payable under this Plan shall be as follows:        (1) The UST Plan Benefit of a UST Employee who is not a UST Supplemental Retirement Participant shall be paid in a Single Sum Payment on the Payment Date specified in ARTICLE I(ee)(ii)(1).   
  (2) The UST Plan Benefit of a UST Supplemental Retirement Participant shall be paid in a Single Sum Payment on the Payment Date specified
in ARTICLE I(ee)(ii)(2).       

E.  
  BEP Benefit Commencement Date and termination of Benefit Equalization Combined Allowances and Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowances payable in the form of an
Optional Payment:        (1) (a) The Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable pursuant to
ARTICLE IIA(1)(a) of the Plan shall be distributed in a Single Sum Payment on the BEP Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(i). If a Retired Employee described in ARTICLE IIA(1)(a) dies after his Date of Retirement and
before payment of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance is paid in a Single Sum Payment, his Beneficiary shall receive a Single Sum Payment on the Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(i).   
  (b) Except as provided in ARTICLE IIE(1)(c) below, the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance payable pursuant to
ARTICLE IIC(1) of the Plan shall be distributed to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is eligible for an Early, Full or Deferred Retirement Allowance in a Single Sum Payment on the Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(i). If
the Grandfathered Retired Employee dies after his Date of Retirement and before payment of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance is paid in a Single Sum Payment, his Beneficiary shall receive a Single Sum Payment on the Benefit Commencement
Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(i) of the Plan.      (c) The Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance payable
pursuant to ARTICLE IIC(1) of the Plan shall be distributed to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is only eligible for a Vested Retirement Allowance at his Separation from Service, as follows:   
  (i) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Allowance shall be
distributed in accordance with the Grandfathered Retired Employee s BEP Benefit Commencement Date described in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(iii) of the Plan and shall be paid in the same form of Optional Payment which the Grandfathered Retired
Employee s Vested Retirement Allowance is paid from the Retirement Plan; and   
         25   

(ii) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is not the
Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Allowance shall be distributed to the Retired Employee in a Single Sum Payment on the Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(i) of the Plan.   
  (2) If any Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance or Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance payable in a Single Sum Payment is paid
after the Payment Date, interest (at a rate determined in the sole discretion of the Administrator) from the date the Retired Employee Separated from Service to the last day of the month preceding the month in which payment is made, shall be added
to the amount of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance otherwise payable to the Retired Employee (or Spouse).      (3) (a)
A Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant who is eligible to retire on a Full, Deferred or Early Retirement Allowance at his Separation from Service may make application to the Administrator to receive an Optional Payment
with respect to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance allocable to his Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in lieu of the Single Sum Payment otherwise payable after his Date of Retirement. The application
for an Optional Payment shall specify:      (i) the form in which such Optional Payment is to be paid;   
  (ii) the Beneficiary, if any, who will receive benefits after the death of the Grandfathered Retired Employee; and   
  (iii) the BEP Benefit Commencement Date.      (b) In the case of a Grandfathered Retired Employee who eighteen (18) months prior to attaining the age of sixty-five (65) years could be compulsorily retired by his Participating Company upon
attaining the age of sixty-five (65) years pursuant to Section 12(c) of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, any application for an Optional Payment must be filed with the Administrator more than one (1) year preceding the date
the Grandfathered Retired Employee attains the age of sixty-five (65) years.      (c) The Administrator may
grant or deny any such application in its sole and absolute discretion. Except as provided in Subparagraphs (d)(i) and (f) of this ARTICLE IIE, a Grandfathered Retired Employee shall not receive that portion of his Benefit Equalization
Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in the form of a Single Sum Payment after the Administrator has granted the Grandfathered Retired Employee application for an Optional Payment. In the event the
Grandfathered Retired Employee incurs a Change in Circumstance on or after the date of the filing of the application for an Optional Payment and prior to his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, the Grandfathered Retired Employee may file an application
with the Administrator within ninety (90) days of the Change in Circumstance, but in no event later than his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, to change the form of Optional Payment, or to change the Beneficiary who is to receive a benefit after
the death of the Grandfathered Retired Employee in accordance with the Optional Payment method originally filed with the Administrator.   
         26   

(d) An application for an Optional Payment shall be of no force and effect
if:      (i) the Grandfathered Retired Employee does not retire on a Full, Deferred or Early Retirement Allowance;   
  (ii) the Grandfathered Retired Employee incurs a disability at any time before the date his Optional Payment commences to be made which
causes him to be eligible for benefits under the Long-Term Disability Plan for Salaried Employees; or      (iii) the Grandfathered
Retired Employee is retired for ill health or disability under Paragraph S2.03(b) of Part II of the Retirement Plan.      (e) In the event the application for an Optional Payment is of no force and effect as a result of an event described in clauses (ii) or (iii) of ARTICLE IIE(3)(d) of the Plan, payment of
that portion of the Grandfathered Retired Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall be made in a Single Sum Payment pursuant to ARTICLE I(k)(1) of the Plan on
the Payment Date, but not later than the Latest Payment Date, but otherwise such application for an Optional Payment shall be effective on the Grandfathered Retired Employee s Date of Retirement on a Full, Deferred or Early Retirement Allowance
and the Grandfathered Retired Employee s benefits shall commence on the BEP Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(ii)(A) of the Plan; provided, however, that if within the one (1) year period following the date of the
filing of the application with the Administrator the Grandfathered Retired Employee voluntarily retires or his employment is terminated for misconduct (as determined by the Administrator) by any member of the Controlled Group, the Optional Payment
shall be reduced by one percent (1%) for each month (or portion of a month) by which the month in which the Grandfathered Retired Employee s termination of employment precedes the first anniversary of the filing of the application with the
Administrator and his benefits shall commence in the BEP Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(ii)(B) of the Plan.      (f) If a Grandfathered Retired Employee whose request for an Optional Payment in the form of a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance has been granted by the Administrator dies
after his Date of Retirement and prior to his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, his Beneficiary shall be eligible to receive that portion of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance elected by the Grandfathered Retired Employee
which is payable after the death of the Grandfathered Retired Employee.      (g) Notwithstanding the preceding
provisions of this Paragraph E,      (i) the Administrator may cause the distribution of that portion of the Benefit Equalization
Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance to any group of similarly   
         27   

situated Grandfathered Retired Employees (or their Spouses or other Beneficiaries) in a Single Sum Payment or as an Optional Payment; and   
  (ii) the Administrator shall distribute that portion of an Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the
Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in a Single Sum Payment if such portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance payable in equal monthly payments is not more than $250 per month.   
  (4) The Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance payable pursuant to ARTICLE IIA(2)(a) and ARTICLE IIC(2) of the Plan shall be paid in
a Single Sum Payment on the BEP Benefit Commencement Date described in ARTICLE I(k)(3)(i)(A) provided, however, that the portion of the Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance that is derived from the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement
Allowance shall be paid on the BEP Benefit Commencement Date described in ARTICLE I(k)(3)(i)(B).       

F.  
  Commencement and termination of Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowances:        (1) The Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance payable pursuant to ARTICLE IIB(1) of the Plan shall be distributed to the Retired Employee in a Single Sum Payment on the Payment Date, but not later
than the Latest Payment Date, unless, solely in the case of a Grandfathered Retired Employee, the Administrator has approved his election to have distribution of that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization
Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance made in accordance with ARTICLE IIF(3) of the Plan.      (2) If an Employee or Retired Employee dies before his Single Sum Payment has been paid and without having the approval by the Administrator for payment of that portion of his Benefit Equalization
Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in the form of an Optional Payment, the Single Sum Payment otherwise payable to the Employee or Retired
Employee shall be paid to his Beneficiary on the Payment Date, but not later than the Latest Payment Date.      (3) (a) A
Grandfathered Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant may make an application to the Administrator to receive an Optional Payment with respect to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing
Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in lieu of the Single Sum Payment otherwise payable to him on the Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(2) after he becomes a Grandfathered Retired
Employee. The application for an Optional Payment shall specify:      (i) the form in which such Optional Payment is to be paid;
and      (ii) the Beneficiary who will receive the balance of that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or
Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing   
         28   

Allowance after the death of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee.      (b) In the case of a Grandfathered Employee who eighteen (18) months prior to attaining the age of sixty-five (65) years could be compulsorily retired by his Participating Company upon attaining
the age of sixty-five (65) years pursuant to Section 12(c) of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, any application for an Optional Payment must be filed with the Administrator more than one (1) year preceding the date the
Grandfathered Employee attains the age of sixty-five (65) years.      (c) The Administrator may grant or deny
any such application in its sole and absolute discretion. A Grandfathered Employee shall not receive that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit
Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in the form of a Single Sum Payment after the Administrator has granted the Grandfathered Employee s application for an Optional Payment. In the event the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired
Employee has elected to receive his Optional Payment over the joint life expectancies of he and his Beneficiary and incurs a Change in Circumstance described in ARTICLE I(l)(ii), ARTICLE I(l)(iii), or ARTICLE I(l)(iv) of the Plan on or after the
date of the filing of the application and prior to the date his Optional Payment commences to be paid, the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee may file an application with the Administrator within ninety (90) days of the
Change in Circumstance, but in no event later than the date his Optional Payment is scheduled to commence to be paid to designate a new Beneficiary or elect to receive his Optional Payment over the life expectancy of the Grandfathered Employee or
Grandfathered Retired Employee.      (d) If within the one (1) year period following the date of the filing of
the application for an Optional Payment with the Administrator, the Grandfathered Employee voluntarily retires (other than for ill health or disability under Paragraph S2.03(b) of Part II of the Retirement Plan), voluntarily terminates his
employment with his Participating Company (other than for a disability which causes him to be eligible for benefits under the Long-Term Disability Plan for Salaried Employees), or his employment is terminated for misconduct (as determined by the
Administrator) by any member of the Controlled Group, the Optional Payment shall be reduced in the same manner as specified in ARTICLE IIE(3)(e) hereof.      (e) If a Grandfathered Retired Employee dies after he Separates from Service and prior to the date his Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance is paid or commences to be paid, payment
shall be made to his Beneficiary commencing in the form and on the date specified in the application.      (4) Notwithstanding the
preceding provisions of this Paragraph F:      (a) the Administrator may cause the distribution of that
portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that   
         29   

is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance to any group of similarly situated Beneficiaries in a Single Sum Payment or as an Optional Payment; and   
  (b) the Administrator shall distribute a Grandfathered Employee s or Grandfathered Retired Employee s Benefit
Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in a Single Sum Payment if the value of such Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance is not more than $10,000.       

G.  
  Application or Notification for Payment of Allowances:        An application for retirement pursuant to Paragraph G2.07 of Part I and Paragraph S2.07 of Part II of the Retirement Plan shall be deemed notification to the Administrator of the BEP Benefit Commencement
Date of a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance (or other benefit) in accordance with the terms of this Plan. In the event a Grandfathered Employee shall not have elected an Optional Payment method with
respect to his Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, any such notification shall specify the Beneficiary to whom payment of the Single Sum Payment shall be made in the event the Employee dies after his Date of Retirement and prior
to his BEP Benefit Commencement Date.      An Employee or Retired Employee (or Beneficiary) shall make application to the
Administrator (or his delegate) for distribution of Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance under this Plan.       

H.  
  Allocation of Payments:        The
Administrator may use any reasonable method, as determined in his sole discretion, to designate amounts paid under the Plan to a TP Employee (or Spouse or other Beneficiary) as a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance (other than that portion
that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance) and Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance (other than that portion that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance) and to allocate benefits among
the plans, programs and arrangements that constitute the Plan as described herein.   
         30   

ARTICLE III        FUNDS FROM WHICH ALLOWANCES ARE PAYABLE       Individual accounts shall be
established for the benefit of each Employee and Retired Employee (or Beneficiary) under the Plan. Any benefits payable from an individual account shall be payable solely to the Employee, Retired Employee (or Beneficiary) for whom such account was
established. The Plan shall be unfunded. All benefits intended to be provided under the Plan shall be paid from time to time from the general assets of the Employee s or Retired Employee s Participating Company and paid in accordance with
the provisions of the Plan; provided, however, that the Participating Companies reserve the right to meet the obligations created under the Plan through one or more trusts or other agreements. In no event shall any such trust or trusts be outside of
the United States. The contributions by each Participating Company on behalf of its Employees and Retired Employees to the individual accounts established pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, whether in trust or otherwise, shall be in an amount
which such Participating Company, with the advice of an actuary, determines to be sufficient to provide for the payment of the benefits under the Plan.   
         31   

ARTICLE IV        THE ADMINISTRATOR       The general administration of the Plan shall be vested
in the Administrator.      All powers, rights, duties and responsibilities assigned to the Administrator under the Retirement Plan
applicable to this Plan shall be the powers, rights, duties and responsibilities of the Administrator under the terms of this Plan, except that the Administrator shall not be a fiduciary (within the meaning of Section 3(21) of ERISA) with
respect to any portion or all of the Plan which is intended to be exempt from the requirements of ERISA pursuant to Section 4(b)(5) of ERISA or which is described in Section 401(a)(1) of ERISA and exempt from the requirements of Part 4 of
Title I of ERISA.   
         32   

ARTICLE V        AMENDMENT AND        DISCONTINUANCE OF THE PLAN    
  The Board may, from time to time, and at any time, amend the Plan; provided, however, that authority to amend the Plan is delegated to
the following committees or individuals where approval of the Plan amendment or amendments by the shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. is not required: (1) to the Corporate Employee Benefit Committee, if the amendment (or amendments) will not
increase the annual cost of the Plan by $10,000,000 and (2) to the Administrator, if the amendment (or amendments) will not increase the annual cost of the Plan by $500,000.   
  Any amendment to the Plan may effect a substantial change in the Plan and may include (but shall not be limited to) any change deemed by
the Company to be necessary or desirable to obtain tax benefits under any existing or future laws or rules or regulations thereunder; provided, however, that no such amendment shall deprive any Employee, Retired Employee (or Beneficiary) of any
Allowances accrued at the time of such amendment.      The Plan may be discontinued at any time by the Board; provided, however,
that such discontinuance shall not deprive any Employee, Retired Employee (or Beneficiary) of any Allowances accrued at the time of such discontinuance.   
         33   

ARTICLE VI        FORMS; COMMUNICATIONS       The Administrator shall provide such appropriate
forms as it may deem expedient in the administration of the Plan and no action to be taken under the Plan (for which a form is so provided) shall be valid unless upon such form. Any Plan communication may be made by electronic medium to the extent
allowed by applicable law. The Administrator may adopt reasonable procedures to enable an Employee or Retired Employee to make an election using electronic medium (including an interactive telephone system and a website on the Intranet).   
  All communications concerning the Plan shall be in writing addressed to the Administrator at such address as may from time to time be
designated. No communication shall be effective for any purpose unless received by the Administrator.   
         34   

ARTICLE VII        INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS       The Administrator shall have the full power
and authority to grant or deny requests for payment of a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance or Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance in accordance with a form of distribution authorized under the Retirement Plan and to grant or deny
requests for payment of a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in accordance with a form of distribution authorized under the Profit-Sharing Plan to the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code. The Management Committee for
Employee Benefits shall have the full power and authority to grant or deny requests for payment of a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance by the
Administrator.      The Administrator shall have full power and authority with respect to all other matters arising in the
administration, interpretation and application of the Plan, including discretionary authority to construe plan terms and provisions, to determine all questions that arise under the Plan such as the eligibility of any employee of a Participating
Company to participate under the Plan; to determine the amount of any benefit to which any person is entitled to under the Plan; to make factual determinations and to remedy any ambiguities, inconsistencies or omissions of any kind.   
  The Plan is intended to comply with the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code. Accordingly, where applicable, this
Plan shall at all times be construed and administered in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and applicable regulations without any diminution in the value of benefits.   
         35   

ARTICLE VIII        CHANGE IN CONTROL PROVISIONS        

A.  
  In the event of a Change in Control, each Employee shall be fully vested in his Allowances and any other benefits accrued through the date of the Change in Control
( Accrued Benefits ). Each Employee (or his Beneficiary) shall, upon the Change in Control, be entitled to a lump sum in cash, payable within thirty (30) days of the Change in Control, equal to the Actuarial Equivalent of his Accrued
Benefits, determined using actuarial assumptions no less favorable than those used under the Supplemental Management Employees  Retirement Plan immediately prior to the Change in Control.     

B.  
  Definition of Change in Control.     
  (1)  Change in Control  shall mean the happening of any of the following events with respect to a Grandfathered Benefit
Equalization Retirement Allowance and Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance:      (a) The
acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and amended (the  Exchange Act )) (a  Person ) of beneficial ownership (within the
meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (i) the then outstanding shares of common stock of Altria Group, Inc. (the  Outstanding Company Common Stock ) or (ii) the combined voting power
of the then outstanding voting securities of Altria Group, Inc. entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the  Outstanding Company Voting Securities  provided, however, that the following acquisitions shall not constitute
a Change in Control: (i) any acquisition directly from Altria Group, Inc., (ii) any acquisition by Altria Group, Inc., (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Altria Group, Inc.
or any corporation controlled by Altria Group, Inc. or (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction described in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (3) of this Section B; or   
  (b) Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason to
constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by Altria Group, Inc. s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at
least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs
as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or   
  (c) Approval by the shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. of a reorganization, merger, share exchange or consolidation (a
 Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company
  
         36   

Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 80% of, respectively, the then
outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination
(including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns Altria Group, Inc. through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of
the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Altria Group, Inc. or such corporation resulting from such Business
Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting
securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination
were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or   
  (d) Approval by the shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. of (i) a complete liquidation or dissolution of Altria Group,
Inc. or (ii) the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Altria Group, Inc., other than to a corporation, with respect to which following such sale or other disposition, (A) more than 80% of, respectively,
the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly
or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such sale or other
disposition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership, immediately prior to such sale or other disposition, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) less than 20%
of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then
beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Altria Group, Inc. or such corporation), except to the extent that such Person owned 20% or more of the Outstanding Company Common
Stock or Outstanding Company Voting Securities prior to the sale or disposition and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of such corporation were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the
initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such sale or other disposition of assets of Altria Group, Inc. or were elected, appointed or nominated by the Board.   
  (2)  Change in Control  shall mean the happening of any of the events specified in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-
3(i)(5)(v), (vi) and (vii) with respect to a Benefit   
         37   

Equalization Retirement Allowance, Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance and that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is not a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization
Retirement Allowance and that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is not a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance. For purposes of determining if a Change in Control has occurred, the Change in Control
event must relate to a corporation identified in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A- 3(i)(5)(ii), provided, however, that (i) the spin-off of the shares of Philip Morris International Inc. to the shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. shall
not be considered to be a Change in Control and (ii) any change in the Incumbent Board coincident with such spin-off shall not be considered to be a Change in Control.   
         38   

EXHIBIT A        ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS USED TO CALCULATE A SINGLE SUM PAYMENT         Applicable Interest Rate  : Prior to the amendments to the Code by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, P.L. 109-280, the Applicable Interest Rate meant the average of the monthly rate of
interest specified in Section 417(e)(3)(A)(ii)(II) of the Code, published for 24 months preceding the Employee s Date of Retirement, less
   1   /  2   of 1%.    
  After the amendment of the Code by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, the Applicable Interest Rates are three tiered segment rates where
rate 1 applies to benefits paid in the first five years, rate 2 applies to benefits paid for the next 15 years, and rate 3 applies to benefits paid thereafter. The IRS will publish the segment rates monthly similar to the way the 30-year Treasury
rates are published.        Applicable Mortality Assumption  : Prior to the amendments to the Code by the Pension
Protection Act of 2006, the Applicable Mortality Table meant the mortality table specified in Section 417(e)(3)(A)(ii)(I) of the Code and Treasury Regulations Section 1.417(e)-1(c)(2) (currently the table prescribed in Revenue Ruling
2001-62).      The Pension Protection Act of 2006 allows Plan sponsors to transition to the new 417(e)(3) interest rates over the
next five years based on the following schedule:       2008 : 20% of segment rates and 80% of 30-year Treasury rates
      2009 : 40% of segment rates and 60% of 30-year Treasury rates   
   2010 : 60% of segment rates and 40% of 30-year Treasury rates   
   2011 : 80% of segment rates and 20% of 30-year Treasury rates   
   2012 : 100% of segment rates      Using the 24-month averaging method as defined by the Plan, lump sums calculated during 2008 and 2009 will be based on an interest rate that incorporates some months using the pure 30-year treasury rate
and the remaining months using the segment rates (to reflect the phase-in described above). For example, the February 2008 lump sum interest rate would be calculated using 23 months of the 30-year treasury rate and one month of the segment rates
with phase-in.      Note that the 24-month averaging less    1   /  2   of 1% methodology is to be applied to all three tiers of the
segment rates. The lump sum factors are then determined using the three tiered approach required by the Pension Protection Act of 2006.        ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS USED TO CALCULATE A SINGLE SUM PAYMENT        UNDER UST
PLANS       Mortality Table prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury under Section 417(e)(3)(A)(ii)(I) of the Code, as
in effect on the date the Participant terminates employment, and the annual rate of interest on 30-year Treasury Securities as specified by the Commissioner   
         39   

of Internal Revenue for the second full month preceding the month in which the Participant Separates from Service.   
         40   

APPENDIX 1     
   TP EMPLOYEES        
 
         41   

APPENDIX 2     
   BENEFIT FOR MICHAEL SZYMANCZYK       The Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance of Mr. Syzmanczyk shall be calculated as described in ARTICLE IIC(1) of the Plan, as supplemented by the letter agreement set forth below, provided,
however, that in no event shall the present value of defined benefits that can be paid at any age to him exceed thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).      Should Mr. Szymanczyk continue employment until age 55, or, if prior to age 55, suffer a Termination Event as defined in his 2002 Letter Agreement, he would be credited with an additional 5 years of
service for all purposes, and receive his retirement benefit without any actuarial reduction for early commencement. To the extent he continues employment beyond age 55, he will also be credited with 2 years of service for each year of service until
age 60.      Further, should he die or become disabled prior to attaining age 55, he or his spouse would be entitled to receive a pension benefit
enhancement based on adding 5 years to his actual service as of the date of death or disability. In addition, (1) if he becomes disabled prior to age 55, he will be entitled to receive an immediate Philip Morris and Kraft Foods 100% Joint and
Survivor pension benefit without reduction for early commencement; (2) if he dies prior to age 55, his spouse will be entitled to receive, commencing as of the date he would have attained age 55, the survivor portion of a Philip Morris and
Kraft Foods 100% Joint and Survivor pension benefit without reduction for early commencement; and (3) should he die on or after attaining age 55 and prior to retirement, his spouse would be entitled to receive the survivor portion of an
immediate Philip Morris and Kraft Foods 100% Joint and Survivor pension benefit without reduction for early commencement.      The Supplemental
Retirement Allowance shall be reduced as prescribed pursuant to Article II, Section C of the Supplemental Management Employees  Retirement Plan, by the Actuarial Equivalent value of any benefits payable to him under other retirement benefits to
which the Company contributed for like service.       

SIGNED BY GEOFFREY C. BIBLE  

CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
     
       DATED: JULY 26, 2002   
         42   

APPENDIX 3     
   TAX ASSUMPTIONS        Federal income tax rate : The highest marginal Federal income tax rate as adjusted for the Federal deduction of state and local taxes and the phase out of Federal deductions under current law (or as
adjusted under any subsequently enacted similar provisions of the Internal Revenue Code).       State income tax rate :
Except with respect to additional benefits attributable to the provisions of a Grandfathered Employee s Designation of Participation, the highest adjusted marginal state income tax rate based on a Grandfathered Employee s state of
residence on the date of the Grandfathered Employee s Separation from Service. With respect to those additional benefits that are attributable to the provisions of a Grandfathered Employee s Designation of Participation, the highest
marginal state income tax rate based on the state in which the Grandfathered Employee is or was employed by a Participating Company on the date of his Separation from Service.         Local income tax rate : Except with respect to additional benefits attributable to the provisions of a Grandfathered Employee s Designation of Participation, the highest adjusted
marginal local income tax rate (taking into account the Grandfathered Employee s resident or nonresident status) based on the Grandfathered Employee s locality of residence on the date of the Grandfathered Employee s Separation from
Service. With respect to those additional benefits that are attributable to the provisions of a Grandfathered Employee s Designation of Participation, the highest marginal state income tax rate (taking into account the Grandfathered
Employee s resident or nonresident status) based on the locality in which the Grandfathered Employee is or was employed by a Participating Company on the date of his Separation from Service.     
   Exception : In the case of a Grandfathered Employee who is an expatriate actively employed by a Participating Company and subject
to United States taxation for all purposes, income taxes shall generally be computed as follows: Expatriate taxes will be calculated assuming the highest marginal Federal income tax rate as adjusted for the Federal deduction of state and local taxes
and the phase-out of Federal deductions under current law (or as adjusted under any subsequently enacted similar provisions of the Code). The applicable state and local tax rates will be adjusted to reflect a Grandfathered Employee s expatriate
status to the extent appropriate.       Capital gains : The ordinary income or capital gains character of items of trust
investment income or deemed investment income shall be taken into account as relevant.      The above principles shall generally
be applied in determining tax-rate assumptions for the relevant purpose, but the Administrator shall have the authority in its discretion to alter the assumptions made as deemed appropriate to take into account particular facts and circumstances.
  
         43   

APPENDIX 4     
   CALCULATION OF BENEFIT        EXECUTIVE TRUST ARRANGEMENT PARTICIPANT       1. Calculate Pension benefit payable in form of
single life annuity as of Normal Retirement Date, based on benefit earned to:       

Date of retirement/termination         2. As of each of the above three dates allocate benefits between the qualified plan and the BEP      a. Determine Qualified Plan Benefit payable at Normal Retirement Date      b.
Determine entire (Unlimited) benefit payable at Normal Retirement Date      c. Determine portion payable from BEP (Subtract 2a from
2b)      d. Apply early retirement factor       

For terminations on or after age 55, use expected retirement age      

Use early retirement factor for Grandfathered Benefit based on age on 12/31/04      
  e. Determine BEP benefit at Benefit Commencement Date       

For terminations on or after age 55, use expected retirement age         3. Calculate  top-up  payment for Grandfathered Benefits from funding account      a. Determine applicable early retirement factor (using employee s age on 12/31/04 and assuming, in the case of an employee under age 55 at termination, that he/she will elect to receive benefits at
age 55      b. Calculate Grandfathered Benefit with early retirement factor growth (each Item 1 times 3a).   
  c. Calculate lump sum value payable at age 55 on a before-tax and after-tax basis   
  d. Ascertain Grandfathered Deferred Profit-Sharing BEP balance (deemed to be distributed at termination of employment)   

Use balance as of most recent year end          

Add any contributions (Company and Company-Match), plus earnings      

Ascertain after-tax value         e. Calculate  top-up  payment for Grandfathered Benefit from funding account      i. Ascertain estimated funding account balance at termination of employment (after-tax)         
         44   

ii. Subtract funding account assets used to satisfy Grandfathered DPS BEP (Item 3d)
     iii. Determine if any  top-up  payment needed to satisfy any remaining Grandfathered DPS BEP liability (after-tax)
     iv. Balance of any funding account assets to be used for future Grandfathered Pension BEP (assumed to be at age 55)
     v. Balance as of date of termination and projected to age 55   
  vi. Determined on pre-tax and after-tax basis       

Ascertain pre-tax and after-tax lump sum value of Grandfathered Pension BEP at age 55      

Subtract 3(e)(iv) (after-tax) from 3c (after-tax)         4. Ascertain Post 2004 BEP Pension and DPS Plan Benefit      i. As of
December 31, 2004 ($0)      ii. As of date of termination   
  iii. Compute as annuity and pre-tax and after-tax lump sum values   
  a. Estimate Post 2004 DPS BEP Account as of date of termination      i. Total hypothetical BEP DPS contributions made via target payments in 2006, 2007 and 2008 and add earnings      ii. Convert to after-tax amount      iii. Add post-target payment DPS BEP
contributions and convert to after-tax amount      iv. Total 4(a)(ii) and 4(a)(iii) to determine Post 2004 DPS BEP Account
     b. Determine total Post 2004 BEP Pension and DPS Plan Benefit as of date of termination for  top-up  payment
     i. Sum of 4(ii) and 4(a)(iv) equals 4(b)      ii. Ascertain estimated target payment account balance (after-tax)      iii. Subtract
4(b)(ii) from 4(b)(i) to ascertain estimated  top-up  payment   
         45   

APPENDIX 5     
   BENEFITS TO UST SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT PLAN PARTICIPANTS         Definitions        This  Appendix 5  sets forth the benefit earned
by each UST Supplemental Retirement Plan Participant to December 31, 2008, under the terms of the UST Plans. Each UST Supplemental Retirement Plan Participant entered into a Letter Agreement setting forth the amount of the benefit payable to
him and the form of such payment. Payment of this benefit will be made in a single lump sum payment on the earlier of: (1) date of Separation from Service if separation occurs within two years of January 6, 2009; or
(2) December 31, 2010.      The Payment Date in the case of a Specified Employee shall be the later of (i) the
applicable date specified in (1) or (2) above or (ii) the first day of the seventh calendar month following the date that such Specified Employee Separates from Service.   

46   

</EX-10.25>

<EX-10.32>
 4
 dex1032.htm
 GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT

Grantor Trust Agreement 

Exhibit 10.32        GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT        BY AND BETWEEN    
   ALTRIA CLIENT SERVICES INC.,        AS GRANTOR        AND    
   WELLS FARGO BANK,        NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, AS TRUSTEE    

GRANTOR TRUST AGREEMENT    
  This Grantor Trust Agreement (the  Trust Agreement ) is made this
23   rd    day of February, 2011 by and between  ALTRIA CLIENT
SERVICES INC.  ( the Company ) and  WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION  ( the Trustee ).   
    Recitals         WHEREAS , the Company is a member of a controlled group of companies of which Altria Group, Inc. is the common parent corporation (the  Controlled Group  and   
   WHEREAS , the Company is the sponsor of the nonqualified deferred compensation plans and agreements (the  Plans ) attached
hereto as Attachment A, as the same may be amended from time to time, that are maintained for the benefit of certain employees and former employees of companies which are (or were) members of the Controlled Group and the spouses and other
beneficiaries of deceased employees and former employees; and       WHEREAS,  the Plans provide for the payment of benefits
upon a change in control of Altria Group, Inc. (the  Plans  Change in Control ) as set forth in Attachment B of this Trust Agreement; and       WHEREAS , it is the intention of the Company to begin to make contributions to the Trust (in addition to the Initial Contribution as set forth in Section 1(d)) on the earlier of (i) a
Plans  Change in Control, or (ii) a Funding Change in Control (as defined herein) (the terms  Plans  Change in Control  and  Funding Change in Control  shall collectively be referred to as a  Change in
Control ), to provide itself with a source of funds to assist the members of the Controlled Group in satisfying their liability for (A) the accumulated benefit obligation under the Plans accrued as of the Change in Control, (B) any
additional accumulated benefit obligations incurred no less frequently than annually thereafter (collectively, the  Liabilities ) until all such Liabilities have been discharged in full to Participants in accordance with the terms of the
Plans; and       WHEREAS,  the Company is desirous of establishing a trust (the  Trust ) for the benefit of certain
current and future participants in the Plans whose benefit as of the Change in Control has not been fully discharged, to wit: (i) current employees of a member of the Controlled Group who have accrued a benefit under the Plans as of the date of
the execution of this Trust Agreement, (ii) any other individual who becomes an employee of a member of the Controlled Group subsequent to the date of the execution of this Trust Agreement who accrues a benefit under the Plans as of a Change in
Control, and (iii) the spouses and other beneficiaries of the individuals specified in (i) and (ii) (collectively, the  Participants  and       WHEREAS , the Company has incurred Liabilities with respect to benefits earned by the individuals specified in (i) of the preceding paragraph and which are payable in accordance with the terms
of the Plans and expects to incur additional Liabilities with respect to the individuals   
         -2-

specified in (ii) of the preceding paragraph and which will become payable in accordance with the terms of such Plans; and   
   WHEREAS , the Company hereby establishes a Trust (the  Trust ) for the benefit of Participants and shall contribute to the
Trust assets that shall be held therein, subject to the claims of the creditors of any member of the Controlled Group in the event of Insolvency, as herein defined, until paid to Participants in such manner and at such times as specified in the
Plans and in this Trust Agreement; and       WHEREAS , Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, has agreed to serve as Trustee
of the Trust; and       WHEREAS,  the Company and the Trustee have entered into a separate Trust Administration Services
Agreement (the  ASA ) with respect to the provision of Wells Fargo Services (as defined in the ASA); and   
   WHEREAS , it is the intention of the parties that this Trust shall constitute an unfunded arrangement and shall not affect the
status of the Plans as excess benefit plans (as defined in Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA )) or an unfunded plan maintained for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select
group of management or highly compensated employees for purposes of Title I of ERISA.       NOW, THEREFORE , the parties do hereby establish
the Trust and agree that the Trust shall be comprised, held and disposed of as follows:       

Section 1.   
    Establishment of The Trust           

(a)  
  The Trust is intended to be a grantor trust, of which the Company is the Grantor, within the meaning of subpart E, part I, subchapter J, chapter 1, subtitle A of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), and shall be construed accordingly.         

(b)  
  The Company shall be considered the Grantor for the purposes of the Trust.     

(c)  
  The Trust hereby established is revocable by the Company. It shall become irrevocable upon a Change in Control.     

(d)  
  The Company hereby deposits with the Trustee in the Trust one-hundred dollars and zero cents ($100.00) (the  Initial Contribution ), which shall become the
principal of the Trust to be held, administered and disposed of by the Trustee as provided in this Trust Agreement.         

(e)  
    The principal of the Trust, and any earnings thereon (the  Fund ) shall be held separate and apart from other funds of the Company and shall
be used exclusively for the uses and purposes of Participants and general creditors as herein set forth. Participants shall have no preferred claim on, or any beneficial ownership interest in, any assets of the Trust. Any rights created under the
Plans and this Trust Agreement shall be unsecured contractual rights of Participants against the Company. Any assets held by the Trust will be subject to the      
         -3-

claims of the general creditors of the Controlled Group under federal and state law in the event any member of the Controlled Group becomes Insolvent, as defined in Section 3(a) herein.

(f)  
  In addition to the Initial Contribution, the Company, in its sole discretion, may, at any time, or from time to time prior to a Change in Control, make additional
deposits of cash, letter of credit, or other property acceptable to the Trustee in the Trust to augment the Fund to be held, administered and disposed of by the Trustee as provided in this Trust Agreement. Prior to a Change in Control, neither the
Trustee nor any Participant shall have any right to compel additional deposits.         

(g)  
  The Company (or a third-party recordkeeper retained by the Company) shall keep accurate books and records with respect to the interest of each Participant in the Plans
and shall provide copies of such books and records to the Trustee at any time as the Trustee shall request.         

(h)  
  Upon the earlier of a Plans  Change in Control or a Funding Change in Control, the Company shall, as soon as possible, but in no event later than five
(5) days following the occurrence of either a Plans  Change in Control or a Funding Change in Control, make an irrevocable contribution to the Trust in an amount that is sufficient (taking into account the Trust assets, if any, resulting
from prior contributions) to fund the Trust in an amount equal to no less than 100% of the Liabilities as of the date on which such Change in Control occurred (the  Required Funding ). The Company shall also fund an Expense Reserve for the
Trustee, which shall be equal to the lesser of: 1) the estimated trustee and record-keeper expenses and fees for the expected duration of the Trust, or 2) one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000). In addition, with respect to each calendar year of
the Company following the year of the Change in Control, the Company shall make an additional irrevocable contribution to the Trust in an amount that is sufficient (taking into account the remaining Trust assets, if any, resulting from prior
contributions and payments in discharge of Liabilities) to fund the Trust in an amount equal to no less than 100% of the Liabilities accrued each year following the year of the Change in Control (including any additional Liabilities accruing during
the remainder of the year in which the Change in Control occurred) (the  Additional Required Funding ), plus an additional contribution to fund an Expense Reserve for one additional year, such contribution to be made no later than thirty
(30) days following the end of such calendar year following the date of the year of the Change in Control.         

Section 2.   
    Payments to Participants           

(a)  
  Prior to the Change in Control, distributions from the Trust shall be made by the Trustee to Participants only upon the direction of the Company and to the extent not
paid by or on behalf of the Company or other member of the Controlled Group. Prior to a Change in Control, the entitlement of a Participant to benefits under the Plans shall be determined by the Administrator (as defined in the Plans) and any claim
for such benefits shall be considered and reviewed under the procedures set out in the Plans.     
         -4-

(b)  
  Prior to the Change in Control:         

(1)  
  the Company may make payment of benefits directly to some or all of the Participants in whole or in part as they become due under the terms of the Plans and the Company
shall notify the Trustee of any such payments; and         

(2)  
  the Company may direct the Trustee in writing (A) to reimburse the Company from the Trust assets for the payments made pursuant to subsection (1) and
(B) to reduce the benefit payable to each Participant for amounts paid directly to the Participant by or on behalf of the Company or other member of the Controlled Group.     
  The Trustee shall reimburse the Company or any other member of the Controlled Group for such payments promptly after receipt by the
Trustee of satisfactory evidence that the Company has made the payments in satisfaction of the benefits due under the Plans. No such reimbursement shall be allowed after a Change in Control that would result in Trust assets equaling less than the
sum of (A) the Required Funding, plus any Additional Required Funding, less payments previously made to discharge Liabilities and (B) the Expense Reserve.      The Trustee shall notify the Company if the Fund is insufficient. Nothing in this Agreement shall relieve the Company of its obligation to pay benefits due under the Plans except to the extent such
liabilities are met by application of assets of the Trust.       

(c)  
  (1) If the Company has directed the Trustee to make benefit payments under the Plans from the Trust prior to a Change in Control, the Company shall deliver to the
Trustee a schedule of the sum of the estimated Liabilities (on a per Participant basis), plus the estimated federal (including FICA) and state tax withholdings, which are due under the Plans on an annual basis beginning in the calendar year
following the execution of this Trust Agreement. At no time prior to the Change in Control shall the Company share any Personal Information (as defined in Section 16) regarding any Participant with the Trustee unless the Company has directed
the Trustee to make payment to such Participant from the Trust pursuant to Section 2(a).        (2) As soon as
practicable before a Change in Control, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee a schedule of the sum of the Liabilities (stated on a per Participant basis) due under the Plans as of the Change in Control. After the Change in Control, the Trustee
shall pay benefits under the Plans in accordance with such schedule (to the extent not paid by the Company or any other member of the Controlled Group) and in accordance with the terms of the Plans, including at the time and form specified in the
Plans.      (3) After the Change in Control, the Administrator shall continue to make the determination of benefits due
Participants and shall periodically (but not less frequently than annually) provide the Trustee with an updated schedule of the Liabilities then due, plus the federal (including FICA) and state tax withholdings, of benefits due; provided however, a
Participant may make application to the Trustee for an independent decision   
         -5-

as to the amount or form of his or her benefits due under the Plans. In making any determination required or permitted to be made by the Trustee under this Section, the Trustee shall, in each
such case, reach its own independent determination, in its absolute and sole discretion, as to the Participant s entitlement to a payment under the Plans. In making its determination, the Trustee may consult with and make such inquiries of such
persons, including the Participant, the Company, any other member of the Controlled Group, legal counsel, actuaries or other persons, as the Trustee may reasonably deem necessary. Any reasonable costs incurred by the Trustee in arriving at its
determination shall be reimbursed by the Company and, to the extent not paid by the Company within a reasonable time, shall be charged to the Trust. The Company waives any right to contest any amount paid over by the Trustee hereunder pursuant to a
good faith determination made by the Trustee notwithstanding any claim by or on behalf of the Company (absent a manifest abuse of discretion by the Trustee) that such payments should not be made.   

(d)  
  The Trustee agrees that it will not itself institute any action at law or at equity, whether in the nature of an accounting, interpleader action, request for a
declaratory judgment or otherwise, requesting a court or administrative or quasi-judicial body to make the determination required to be made by the Trustee under this Section 2 in the place and stead of the Trustee. The Trustee may (and, if
necessary or appropriate, shall) institute an action to collect a contribution due the Trust following a Change in Control, or in the event that the Trust should ever experience a short-fall in the amount of assets necessary to make payments
pursuant to the terms of the Plans and this Trust Agreement.         

Section 3.   
    Trustee Responsibility Regarding Payments To Participants When The Company Is Insolvent       

(a)  
  The Trustee shall cease payment of benefits to Participants if any member of the Controlled Group is Insolvent. A member of the Controlled Group shall be considered
 Insolvent  for purposes of this Trust Agreement if (i) any such member is unable to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any such member is subject to a pending proceeding as a debtor under the United States Bankruptcy
Code.         

(b)  
  At all times during the continuance of this Trust, the Fund shall be subject to claims of general creditors of the Controlled Group under federal and state law as set
forth below.         

(1)  
  The Chief Financial Officer of Altria Group, Inc. shall have the duty to inform the Trustee in writing that a member of the Controlled Group is Insolvent. If a person
claiming to be a creditor of a member of the Controlled Group alleges in writing to the Trustee that any such member has become Insolvent, the Trustee shall determine whether the member of the Controlled Group is Insolvent and, pending such
determination, the Trustee shall discontinue payment of benefits from the Trust.         

(2)  
    Unless the Trustee has actual knowledge that a member of the Controlled Group is Insolvent, or has received notice from the Chief Financial Officer of
Altria Group, Inc. or a person claiming to be a creditor alleging that a      
         -6-

member of the Controlled Group is Insolvent, the Trustee shall have no duty to inquire whether any member of the Controlled Group is Insolvent. The Trustee may in all events rely on such evidence
concerning the solvency of each member of the Controlled Group as may be furnished to the Trustee and that provides the Trustee with a reasonable basis for making a determination concerning the solvency of each member of the Controlled Group.

(3)  
  If at any time the Trustee has determined that a member of the Controlled Group is Insolvent, the Trustee shall discontinue payments from the Trust and shall hold the
assets of the Trust for the benefit of the Controlled Group s general creditors. Nothing in this Trust Agreement shall in any way diminish any rights of Participants to pursue their rights as general creditors of a member of the Controlled
Group with respect to benefits due under the Plans or otherwise.         

(4)  
  The Trustee shall resume the payment of benefits to Participants in accordance with Section 2 of this Trust Agreement only after the Trustee has determined that no
member of the Controlled Group is Insolvent (or is no longer Insolvent).         

(c)  
  Provided that there are sufficient assets, if the Trustee discontinues the payment of benefits from the Trust pursuant to Sections 3(a) and 3(b) hereof and subsequently
resumes such payments, the first payment following such discontinuance shall include the aggregate amount of all payments due to Participants under the terms of the Plans for the period of such discontinuance, less the aggregate amount of any
payments made to Participants by the Company in lieu of the payments provided for hereunder during any such period of discontinuance.         

Section 4.   
    Payments When a Short-Fall of The Trust Assets Occurs           

(a)  
  If there are not sufficient assets for the payment of current and expected future benefits pursuant to Section 2 or Section 3(c) hereof and the Company does
not otherwise make such payments within a reasonable time after demand from the Trustee, the Trustee shall allocate the Trust assets among the Participants pro-rata with respect to the total present value of benefits expected for each Participant,
and payments to each Participant shall be made from the Trust to the extent of the assets allocated to each Participant.         

(b)  
  Upon receipt of a contribution from the Company necessary to make up for a short-fall in the payments due, the Trustee shall resume payments to all the Participants
under the Plans. Following the Change in Control, the Trustee shall have the right and duty to compel a contribution to the Trust from the Company to make up for any short-fall.     

Section 5.   
    Payments to the Company       
         -7-

(a)  
  Except as provided in Section 2(b), Section 3, Section 5(b), and Section 8(a) hereof, the Company shall have no right or power to direct the Trustee
to return to the Company or to divert to others any of the Trust assets before all Liabilities to Participants have been discharged in full pursuant to the terms of the Plans.     

(b)  
  In the event that the Company, prior to the Change in Control, or the Trustee in its sole and absolute discretion, after the Change in Control, determines that the
Trust assets exceed one-hundred twenty percent (120%) of the current and anticipated Liabilities that are to be paid under the Plans plus the necessary Expense Reserve for the year, the Trustee, at the written direction of the Company, prior to
the Change in Control, or the Trustee in its sole and absolute discretion, after the Change in Control, shall distribute to the Company such excess portion of Trust assets.     

Section 6.   
    Investment Authority           

(a)  
  Prior to the Change in Control, the Company shall have the right, subject to this Section, to direct the Trustee with respect to investments.     

(1)  
  The Company may direct the Trustee to segregate all or a portion of the Fund in a separate investment account or accounts and may appoint one or more investment
managers and/or an investment committee ( Investment Delegate ) designated by the Company to direct the investment and reinvestment of each such investment account or accounts. In such event, the Company shall notify the Trustee of the
appointment of each such Investment Delegate. No investment manager who is an Investment Delegate shall be related, directly or indirectly, to the Company, but members of an investment committee that is an Investment Delegate may be employees or
directors of the Company or of any other member of the Controlled Group.         

(2)  
  Prior to the Change in Control, the Trustee shall make every sale or investment with respect to such investment account as directed in writing by the Company or an
Investment Delegate; provided, however that the Company or the Investment Delegate may not instruct the Trustee to invest in securities (including stock and the rights to acquire stock or obligations) of Altria Group, Inc. or any of its affiliates
(including any member of the Controlled Group). It shall be the duty of the Trustee to act strictly in accordance with each direction. The Trustee shall be under no duty to question any such direction of the Company or any Investment Delegate, to
review any securities or other property held in such investment account or accounts acquired by it pursuant to such directions or to make any recommendations to the Company or an Investment Delegate with respect to such securities or other property.

(3)  
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Trustee, without obtaining prior approval or direction from the Company or any Investment Delegate, but subject to
contrary direction from the Company or an Investment Delegate, shall invest cash balances held by it from time to time in short-term cash equivalents including, but not      
         -8-

limited to, through the medium of any short-term common, collective or commingled trust fund established and maintained by the Trustee subject to the instrument establishing such trust fund, U.S.
Treasury Bills, commercial paper (including such forms of commercial paper as may be available through the Trustee s Trust Department), certificates of deposit (including certificates issued by the Trustee in its separate corporate capacity),
and similar type securities, with a maturity not to exceed one year; and, furthermore, sell such short-term investments as may be necessary to carry out the instructions of the Company or an Investment Delegate regarding more permanent type
investment and directed distributions.          

(4)  
  The Trustee shall neither be liable nor responsible for any loss resulting to the Fund by reason of any sale or purchase of an investment as directed by the Company or
an Investment Delegate nor by reason of the failure to take any action with respect to any investment which was acquired pursuant to any such direction in the absence of further directions of the Company or such Investment Delegate.

a.  
  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Trustee shall be indemnified and saved harmless by the Company from and against any and all personal
liability to which the Trustee may be subjected by carrying out any directions of the Company or an Investment Delegate issued pursuant hereto or for failure to act in the absence of directions of the Company or an Investment Delegate, including all
expenses reasonably incurred in its defense in the event the Company fails to provide such defense; provided, however, the Trustee shall not be so indemnified if it participates knowingly in, or knowingly undertakes to conceal, an act or omission of
the Company or an Investment Delegate, having actual knowledge that such act or omission is a breach of a fiduciary duty; provided further, however, that the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowingly participated in or knowingly undertaken to
conceal an act or omission of the Company or an Investment Delegate with knowledge that such act or omission was a breach of fiduciary duty by merely complying with directions of the Company or an Investment Delegate or for failure to act in the
absence of directions of the Company or an Investment Delegate. The Trustee may rely upon any order, certificate, notice, direction or other documentary confirmation purporting to have been issued by the Company or an Investment Delegate which the
Trustee believes to be genuine and to have been issued by the Company or Investment Delegate. The Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of the termination of the appointment of any Investment Delegate until it receives written notice thereof
from the Company.         

b.  
    All rights associated with respect to any investment held by the Trust, including but not limited to, exercising or voting of proxies, in person or
     
         -9-

by general or limited proxy, shall be in accordance with and as directed in writing by the Company or its authorized representative.      

(b)  
  Subsequent to the Change in Control, the Trustee shall have the exclusive power to invest and reinvest the Fund in its sole discretion in accordance with investment
guidelines issued by the Company from time to time and subject to its duties set forth in Section 10(a):         

(1)  
  To invest and reinvest in any readily marketable common and preferred stocks, bonds, notes, debentures (including convertible stocks and similar securities but not
including any stock or security of the Trustee other than a  de minimus  amount held in a collective or mutual fund), certificates of deposit or demand or time deposits (including any such deposits with the Trustee), limited partnerships or
limited liability companies, private placements and shares of investment companies, and mutual funds, without being limited to the classes or property in which the Trustee is authorized to invest by any law or any rule of court of any state and
without regard to the proportion any such property may bear to the entire amount of the Fund. Without limitation, the Trustee may invest the Trust in any investment company (including any investment company or companies for which Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. or an affiliated company acts as the investment advisor ( Special Investment Companies )) or, any insurance contract or contracts issued by an insurance company or companies in each case as the Trustee may determine provided that the
Trustee may in its sole discretion keep such portion of the Trust in cash or cash balances for such reasonable periods as may from time to time be deemed advisable pending investment or in order to meet contemplated payments of benefits;

(2)  
  To invest and reinvest all or any portion of the Fund collectively through the medium of any proprietary mutual fund that may be established and maintained by the
Trustee;         

(3)  
  To commingle for investment purposes all or any portion of the Fund with assets of any other similar trust or trusts established by the Company with the Trustee for the
purpose of safeguarding deferred compensation or retirement income benefits of its employees and/or directors;         

(4)  
  To retain any property at any time received by the Trustee;         

(5)  
  To sell or exchange any property held by it at public or private sale, for cash or on credit, to grant and exercise options for the purchase or exchange thereof, to
exercise all conversion or subscription rights pertaining to any such property and to enter into any covenant or agreement to purchase any property in the future;     

(6)  
    To participate in any plan of reorganization, consolidation, merger, combination, liquidation or other similar plan relating to property held by it and
to consent to or      
         -10-

oppose any such plan or any action thereunder or any contract, lease, mortgage, purchase, sale or other action by any person;      

(7)  
  To deposit any property held by it with any protective, reorganization or similar committee, to delegate discretionary power thereto, and to pay part of the expenses
and compensation thereof for any assessments levied with respect to any such property to be deposited;         

(8)  
  To extend the time of payment of any obligation held by it;         

(9)  
  To hold uninvested any moneys received by it, without liability for interest thereon, but only in anticipation of payments due for investments, reinvestments, expenses
or disbursements;         

(10)  
  To exercise all voting or other rights with respect to any property held by it and to grant proxies, discretionary or otherwise;     

(11)  
  For the purposes of the Trust, to borrow money from others, to issue its promissory note or notes therefor, and to secure the repayment thereof by pledging any property
held by it; provided, however, that the Trustee shall not engage in securities lending with respect to any assets in the Fund;         

(12)  
  To employ suitable contractors and counsel, who may be counsel to the Company or to the Trustee, and to pay their reasonable expenses and compensation from the Fund to
the extent not paid by the Company;         

(13)  
  To register investments in its own name or in the name of a nominee; and to combine certificates representing securities with certificates of the same issue held by it
in other fiduciary capacities or to deposit or to arrange for the deposit of such securities with any depository, even though, when so deposited, such securities may be held in the name of the nominee of such depository with other securities
deposited therewith by other persons, or to deposit or to arrange for the deposit of any securities issued or guaranteed by the United States government, or any agency or instrumentality thereof, including securities evidenced by book entries rather
than by certificates, with the United States Department of the Treasury or a Federal Reserve Bank, even though, when so deposited, such securities may not be held separate from securities deposited therein by other persons; provided, however, that
no securities held in the Fund shall be deposited with the United States Department of the Treasury or a Federal Reserve Bank or other depository in the same account as any individual property of the Trustee, and provided, further, that the books
and records of the Trustee shall at all times show that all such securities are part of the Fund;         

(14)  
    To settle, compromise or submit to arbitration any claims, debts or damages due or owing to or from the Trust, respectively, to commence or defend
suits or legal proceedings to protect any interest of the Trust, and to represent the Trust in all      
         -11-

suits or legal proceedings in any court or before any other body or tribunal; provided, however, that the Trustee shall not be required to take any such action unless it shall have been
indemnified by the Company to its reasonable satisfaction against liability or expenses it might incur therefrom;          

(15)  
  Subject to Section 7, to hold and retain policies of life insurance, annuity contracts, and other property of any kind which policies are contributed to the Trust
by the Company or any other member of the Controlled Group or are purchased by the Trustee;         

(16)  
  To hold any other class of assets which may be contributed by the Company and that is deemed reasonable by the Trustee, unless expressly prohibited herein; and

(17)  
  Generally, to do all acts, whether or not expressly authorized, that the Trustee may deem necessary or desirable for the protection of the Fund.

(c)  
  Following the Change in Control, the Trustee shall have the sole and absolute discretion in the management of the Fund and shall have all the powers set forth under
Section 6(b). In investing the Trust assets, the Trustee shall consider:         

(1)  
  the financial and other needs of the Plans;         

(2)  
  the need for matching the Fund with the current and expected Liabilities; and     

(3)  
  the duty of the Trustee to act solely in the best interests of the Participants.     

(d)  
  The Trustee shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to delegate its investment responsibility to an investment manager (as defined in ERISA) who may be an
affiliate of the Trustee. In the event the Trustee shall exercise this right, the Trustee shall remain, at all times responsible for the acts of the investment manager appointed by the Trustee.     

(e)  
  The Company shall have the right at any time, and from time to time in its sole discretion, to substitute assets (other than securities issued by the Trustee, Altria
Group, Inc. or its affiliates, including any member of the Controlled Group) of equal fair market value for any asset held by the Trust. This right is exercisable by the Company in a nonfiduciary capacity without the approval or consent of any
person in a fiduciary capacity; provided, however, that, following the Change in Control, no such substitution shall be permitted unless the Trustee determines that the fair market values of the substituted assets are substantially equal and that
such substitution is prudent.         

Section 7.   
    Insurance Contracts           

(a)  
    To the extent that the Trustee is directed by the Company prior to the Change in Control to invest part or all of the Fund in the name of the Trust in
insurance contracts, the type and      
         -12-

amount thereof shall be specified by the Company. The Trustee shall be under no duty to make inquiry as to the propriety of the type or amount so specified.      

(b)  
  Each insurance contract issued shall provide that the Trustee shall be the owner thereof with the power to exercise all rights, privileges, options and elections
granted by or permitted under such contract or under the rules of the insurer. The exercise by the Trustee of any incidents of ownership under any contract shall, prior to the Change in Control, be subject to the direction of the Company. After the
Change in Control, the Trustee shall have all such rights.         

(c)  
  The Trustee shall have no power to name a beneficiary of the policy other than the Trust, to assign the policy (as distinct from conversion of the policy to a different
form) other than to a successor Trustee, or to loan to any person the proceeds of any borrowing against an insurance policy held in the Fund.         

(d)  
  No insurer shall be deemed to be a party to the Trust and an insurer s obligations shall be measured and determined solely by the terms of contracts and other
agreements executed by the insurer.         

Section 8.   
    Disposition of Income           

(a)  
  Prior to the Change in Control, all income received by the Trust, net of expenses and taxes, may be returned to the Company or accumulated and reinvested within the
Trust at the direction of the Company.         

(b)  
  Following the Change in Control, all income received by the Trust, net of expenses and taxes payable by the Trust, shall be accumulated and reinvested within the Trust.

Section 9.   
    Accounting by The Trustee          The
Trustee shall keep accurate and detailed records of all investments, receipts, disbursements, and all other transactions required to be made, including such specific records as shall be agreed upon in writing between the Company and the Trustee.
Within ninety (90) days following the close of each calendar year and within ninety (90) days after the removal or resignation of the Trustee, the Trustee shall deliver to the Company a written account of its administration of the Trust
during such year or during the period from the close of the last preceding year to the date of such removal or resignation setting forth all investments, receipts, disbursements and other transactions effected by it, including a description of all
securities and investments purchased and sold with the cost or net proceeds of such purchases or sales (accrued interest paid or receivable being shown separately), and showing all cash, securities and other property held in the Trust at the end of
such year or as of the date of such removal or resignation, as the case may be. The Company may approve such account by an instrument in writing delivered to the Trustee. In the absence of the Company s filing with the Trustee objections to any
such account within one hundred-eighty (180) days after its receipt, the Company shall be deemed to have so approved such account. In such case, or upon the written approval by the Company of any such account, the Trustee shall, to the extent
permitted by law, be discharged from all liability to the Company for its acts or failures to act described by such account.   
         -13-

The foregoing, however, shall not preclude the Trustee from having its accounting settled by a court of competent jurisdiction. The Trustee shall be entitled to hold and to commingle the assets
of the Trust in one Fund for investment purposes but at the direction of the Company prior to the Change in Control, the Trustee shall create one or more sub-accounts.       

Section 10.   
    Responsibility of The Trustee and the Company           

(a)  
  With respect to the duties of the Trustee under this Trust Agreement, the Trustee shall act with the care, skill, prudence and diligence under the circumstances then
prevailing that a prudent person acting in like capacity and familiar with such matters would use in the conduct of an enterprise of a like character and with like aims; provided, however, that the Trustee shall incur no liability to any person for
any action taken pursuant to a direction, request or approval given by the Company which is contemplated by, and in conformity with, the terms of the Plans or this Trust and is given in writing by the Company. In the event of a dispute between the
Company and a party, the Trustee may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction to resolve the dispute, subject, however to Section 2(d) hereof.         

(b)  
  With respect to the duties of the Trustee under this Trust Agreement, the Company hereby indemnifies the Trustee against losses, liabilities, claims, costs and expenses
in connection with the administration of the Trust, unless resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Trustee or a breach of its duties under Section 10(a). To the extent the Company fails to make any payment on account of
an indemnity provided in this paragraph 10(b) and (c), in a reasonably timely manner, the Trustee may obtain payment from the Trust.         

(c)  
  If the Trustee undertakes or defends any litigation arising in connection with this Trust or to protect a Participant s rights under the Plans, unless resulting
from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Trustee or a breach of its duties under Section 10(a), the Company agrees to indemnify the Trustee against the Trustee s costs, reasonable expenses and liabilities (including, without
limitation, attorneys  fees and expenses) relating thereto and to be primarily liable for such payments. If the Company does not pay such costs, expenses and liabilities in a reasonably timely manner, the Trustee may obtain payment from the
Trust.         

(d)  
  If the Trustee receives notice of the assertion of any claim or of the commencement of any action or proceeding involving the Trustee, in any capacity, that arises in
any manner in connection with the performance of its duties under this Agreement (a  Claim ), the Trustee will give the Company prompt written notice thereof, although failure to do so will not relieve the Company from any liability
hereunder or otherwise unless such failure prejudices the Company s rights.        The indemnification obligations
of this Section 10 shall survive the termination of this Trust Agreement.   
         -14-

(e)  
  Prior to the Change in Control, the Trustee may consult with legal counsel (who may also be counsel for the Company) with respect to any of its duties or obligations
hereunder. Following the Change in Control, the Trustee shall select independent legal counsel and may consult with counsel or other persons with respect to its duties and with respect to the rights of Participants under the Plans.

(f)  
  The Trustee may hire agents, accountants, actuaries, investment advisors, financial consultants or other professionals to assist it in performing any of its duties or
obligations hereunder and may rely on any determinations made by such agents and information provided to it by the Company.         

(g)  
  The Trustee shall have, without exclusion, all powers conferred on the Trustee by applicable law, unless expressly provided otherwise herein.     

(h)  
  Notwithstanding any powers granted to the Trustee pursuant to this Trust Agreement or to applicable law, the Trustee shall not have any power that could give this Trust
the objective of carrying on a business and dividing the gains therefrom, within the meaning of section 301.7701-2 of the Procedure and Administrative Regulations promulgated pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.     

Section 11.   
    Compensation and Expenses of The Trustee          The Trustee s compensation shall be as agreed in writing from time to time by the Company and the Trustee. The Company shall pay all administrative expenses and the Trustee s fees and shall
promptly reimburse the Trustee for any fees and expenses of its agents, the services of which have been approved by the Company. If not so paid within ninety (90) days of being invoiced, the fees and expenses shall be paid from the Trust.

Section 12.   
    Resignation and Removal of The Trustee           

(a)  
  Prior to the Change in Control, the Trustee may resign at any time by written notice to the Company, which shall be effective sixty (60) days after receipt of such
notice unless the Company and the Trustee agree otherwise. Following the Change in Control, the effective day of any resignation by the Trustee may only be after the date of the appointment of a successor Trustee.     

(b)  
  The Trustee may be removed by the Company on sixty days (60) days notice or upon shorter notice accepted by the Trustee prior to the Change in Control. Subsequent
to the Change in Control, the Trustee may only be removed by the Company with the consent of a majority of the Participants. For these purposes and Section 14(e), a majority in number of Participants shall constitute a majority.

(c)  
  If the Trustee resigns within two years after the Change in Control, the Company, or if the Company fails to act within a reasonable period of time following such
resignation, the Trustee, shall apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee which satisfies the requirements of Section 13 or for instructions.     
         -15-

(d)  
  Upon resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor Trustee, all assets shall subsequently be transferred to the successor Trustee. The transfer
shall be completed within sixty (60) days after receipt of notice of resignation, removal or transfer, unless the Company extends the time limit.         

(e)  
  If the Trustee resigns or is removed, a successor shall be appointed by the Company, in accordance with Section 13 hereof, by the effective date of resignation or
removal under paragraph(s) (a) or (b) of this section. If no such appointment has been made, the Trustee may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for appointment of a successor or for instructions. All expenses of the Trustee in
connection with the proceeding shall be allowed as administrative expenses of the Trust.         

Section 13.   
    Appointment of Successor           

(a)  
  If the Trustee resigns or is removed in accordance with Section 12 hereof, the Company may appoint, subject to Section 12, any third party national banking
association with a market capitalization exceeding $10 billion-Treasury input to replace the Trustee upon resignation or removal. The successor Trustee shall have all of the rights and powers of the former Trustee, including ownership rights in the
Trust. The former Trustee shall execute any instrument necessary or reasonably requested by the Company or the successor Trustee to evidence the transfer.         

(b)  
  The successor Trustee need not examine the records and acts of any prior Trustee and may retain or dispose of existing Trust assets, subject to Section 9 and 10
hereof. The successor Trustee shall not be responsible for, and the Company shall indemnify and defend the successor Trustee from any claim or liability resulting from, any action or inaction of any prior Trustee or from any other past event, or any
condition existing at the time it becomes successor Trustee.         

Section 14.   
    Amendment or Termination           

(a)  
  This Trust Agreement may be amended by a written instrument executed by the Trustee and the Company, except as otherwise provided in this Section 14.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such amendment shall conflict with the terms of the Plans or shall make the Trust revocable after it has become irrevocable.     

(b)  
  Prior to the Change in Control, the Trust and the Trust Agreement may be terminated at any time by the Company upon written notice to the Trustee.

(c)  
  Following the Change in Control, the Trust shall not terminate until the date on which Participants have received all of the benefits due to them under the terms and
conditions of the Plans or the Trustee has purchased insurance policies providing for the payment of such benefits from an insurance company with the highest rating from AM Best.     
         -16-

(d)  
  Following the Change in Control, upon written approval of all Participants entitled to payment of benefits pursuant to the terms of the Plans as determined by the
Trustee, the Company may terminate this Trust prior to the time all benefit payments under the Plans have been made. All assets in the Trust at termination after the satisfaction of all liabilities for benefits shall be returned to the Company.

(e)  
  This Trust Agreement may not be amended by the Company following the Change in Control without the written consent of a majority of the Participants.

Section 15.   
    Funding Change in Control; Duty to Advise Trustee of Change in Control       

(a)  
   Definition of Funding Change in Control . A  Funding Change in Control  means the happening of any of the following events:     

(1)  
  Both (A) consummation of the acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act (a
 Person )) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (1) the then outstanding shares of Common Stock (the  Outstanding Company Common Stock ) or
(2) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the  Outstanding Company Voting Securities ) and (B) the election to the Board of at
least one individual determined in good faith by a majority of the then serving members of the Board to be a representative or associate of such Person; provided, however, that the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control:
(1) any acquisition directly from the Company or any corporation or other entity controlled by the Company ( the Affiliated Group ), (2) any acquisition by a member of the Affiliated Group, (3) any acquisition by any
employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by a member of the Affiliated Group or (4) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of paragraph
(iii) of this Section 15(a); or         

(2)  
  Individuals who, as of the effective date of the Plan, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of
the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to such effective date whose election, or nomination for election by the shareholders of the Company, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors
then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or
threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or     
         -17-

(3)  
  Consummation of a reorganization, merger, share exchange or consolidation (a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business
Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business
Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of
directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns such shares and voting power through one or more subsidiaries) in
substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) no Person (excluding any employee
benefit plan (or related trust) of any member of the Affiliated Group or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock
of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (C) at
least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or at the time of the action of the Board
providing for such Business Combination or were elected, appointed or nominated by the Board; or         

(4)  
    Consummation of a (A) complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or (B) sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the
assets of the Company, other than to a corporation, with respect to which following such sale or other disposition, (1) more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the combined voting
power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the
beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such sale or other disposition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership, immediately prior to such
sale or other disposition, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (2) less than 20% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the
combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or
related trust) of any member of the Affiliated Group or      
         -18-

such corporation), except to the extent that such Person owned 20% or more of the outstanding Company Common Stock or Outstanding Company Voting Securities prior to the sale or disposition and
(3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of such corporation were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or at the time of the action of the Board providing for such sale or
other disposition of assets of the Company or were elected, appointed or nominated by the Board.          

(b)  
  The Board of Directors of Altria Group, Inc. shall have the specific duty to determine whether any Change in Control is expected to occur or has transpired and the
Chief Executive Officer of Altria Group, Inc. shall be required to give the Trustee notice of the determination of the Board of Directors of Altria Group, Inc. that a Change in Control is expected to occur or has transpired. The Trustee shall be
entitled to rely upon such notice, but if the Trustee receives notice of a Change in Control from another source, the Trustee shall make its own independent determination.     

Section 16.   
    Confidentiality          Certain
information relating to the Trust, including certain Personal Information (as defined below), is  Confidential Information  pursuant to applicable federal and state laws and regulations relating to the privacy, confidentiality or security
of Confidential Information (collectively,  Privacy Laws ), and as such it shall be maintained in strict confidence and not Processed (as defined below), except as described in this section.   
  The Trustee shall limit access to Confidential Information to its personnel who have a need to know the Confidential Information as a condition to the
Trustee s performance of services for or on behalf of the Company. If it is necessary for the Trustee to disclose Confidential Information to a third party in order to perform the Trustee s duties hereunder and the Company has authorized
the Trustee to do so in writing, the Trustee shall disclose only such Confidential Information as is necessary for such third party to perform its obligations to the Trustee and shall, before such disclosure is made, ensure that said third party
understands and agrees to the confidentiality obligations set forth herein and enter into a written agreement with said third party that imposes obligations on the third party that are substantially similar to those privacy, confidentiality and
information security obligations imposed on Wells Fargo under this Trust Agreement.      The Trustee and the Company shall maintain an appropriate
information security program and reasonable administrative, technical and physical safeguards to (i) ensure the security and confidentiality of Confidential Information; (ii) protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to the
security and integrity of Confidential Information and (iii) protect against any actual or suspected unauthorized Processing of Confidential Information, and shall inform in writing the other party as soon as possible of any security breach or
other incident involving actual or suspected unauthorized Processing, disclosure of or access to Confidential Information (hereinafter  Information Security Incident ). The Trustee shall promptly take all necessary and advisable corrective
actions, and shall cooperate fully with the Company in all reasonable and lawful efforts to prevent, mitigate or rectify such Information Security Incident. The content of   
         -19-

any filings, communications, notices, press releases or reports issued by either party related to any Information Security Incident must be approved by the other party prior to any publication or
communication thereof.      Promptly upon the expiration or earlier termination of the Trust Agreement, or such earlier time as the Company
requests, the Trustee shall return to Company or its designee, or at Company s request, securely destroy or render unreadable or undecipherable if return is not reasonably feasible or desirable to Company (which decision shall be based solely
on Company s written statement), each and every original and copy in every media of all Confidential Information in the Trustee s possession, custody or control in accordance with its record retention policies. The Trustee represents that
it shall ensure the confidentiality of the Confidential Information and that it shall not use or disclose any Confidential Information after termination of this Trust Agreement, subject to the exceptions specified in this Section 16.
     Confidential Information does not include information that is generally known or available to the public or that is not treated as
confidential by the disclosing party, provided, however, that this exception shall not apply to any publicly available information to the extent that the disclosure or sharing of the information by one or both parties is subject to any limitation,
restriction, consent, or notification requirement under any applicable federal or state Privacy Laws, and provided further, that this exception shall not apply to Personal Information. If the receiving party is required by law, according to the
advice of competent counsel, to disclose Confidential Information, the receiving party may do so without breaching this section, but shall first, if feasible and legally permissible, provide the disclosing party with prompt notice of such pending
disclosure so that the disclosing party may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy or waive compliance with the provisions of this section.      The Trustee agrees that any Processing of Personal Information in violation of this Section 16 of this Trust Agreement, the Company s instructions or any applicable Privacy Law, or any
Information Security Incident, may cause immediate and irreparable harm to the Company for which money damages may not constitute an adequate remedy. Therefore, the Trustee agrees that Company may obtain specific performance and injunctive or other
equitable relief for any such violation or incident, in addition to its remedies at law.      If there is an Information Security Incident caused
by Wells Fargo s gross negligence or willful misconduct (as mutually agreed to by Wells Fargo and Altria) and notification to affected individuals is required by applicable law (as reasonably determined by Altria), Wells
Fargo shall reimburse Altria on demand for all Notification Related Costs (defined below) incurred by Altria arising out of or in connection with any such Information Security Incident. If notification to an individual is
required under any law as a result of an Information Security Incident, then notifications to all individuals who are affected by the same Information Security Incident (as reasonably determined by Altria) will be considered legally required.
The language of such notification shall be mutually agreed upon by the parties, such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld.     Notification
Related Costs means Altria s reasonable internal and external costs associated with addressing and responding to an Information Security Incident, including but not limited to: (aa)   

         -20-

preparing and mailing or other transmission of required notifications; (bb) preparing and mailing or other transmission of such other communications to customers, agents or others
as Altria deems reasonably appropriate; (cc) establishing a call center or other communications procedures in response to such Information Security Incident (e.g., developing call center FAQs, talking points and training); (dd) public
relations and other similar crisis management services; (ee) legal and accounting fees and expenses associated with Altria s investigation of and response to such event; (ff) costs for credit monitoring and similar services that are
associated with legally required notifications or are advisable under the circumstances.      For the purposes of this Section 16,
 Personal Information  means any information relating to an identified or identifiable individual (such as name, postal address, email address, telephone number, date of birth, Social Security number (or its equivalent), driver s
license number, account number, personal identification number, health or medical information, or any other unique identifier or one or more factors specific to the individual s physical, physiological, mental, economic or social identity),
whether such data is in individual or aggregate form and regardless of the media in which it is contained, that may be (i) disclosed at any time to the Trustee by the Company in anticipation of, in connection with or incidental to the
performance of services for or on behalf of the Company; (ii) Processed at any time by the Trustee in connection with or incidental to the performance of this Trust Agreement; or (iii) derived by the Trustee from the information described
in (i) and (ii) above.  Process  or  Processing  means any operation or set of operations performed upon Personal Information or other Confidential Information, whether or not by automatic means, such as creating,
collecting, procuring, obtaining, accessing, recording, organizing, storing, adapting, altering, retrieving, consulting, using, disclosing or destroying the information in accordance with the Trustee s record retention policies.   

Section 17.   
    Miscellaneous           

(a)  
  Any provision of this Trust Agreement prohibited by law shall be ineffective to the extent of any such prohibition, without invalidating the remaining provisions
hereof.         

(b)  
  The Company hereby represents and warrants that the Plans have been established, maintained and administered in accordance with all applicable laws, including without
limitation, ERISA. The Company hereby indemnifies and agrees to hold the Trustee harmless from all liabilities, including attorneys  fees, relating to or arising out of the establishment, maintenance and administration of the Plans. To the
extent the Company does not pay any of such liabilities in a reasonably timely manner, the Trustee may obtain payment from the Trust.         

(c)  
  Benefits payable to Participants under this Trust Agreement may not be anticipated, assigned (either at law or in equity), alienated, pledged, encumbered or subjected
to attachment, garnishment, levy, execution or other legal or equitable process.         

(d)  
  This Trust Agreement shall be binding on the Company s and the Trustee s successors and permitted assigns.     
         -21-

(e)  
  In the event of a conflict between the terms of the ASA and the terms of this Trust Agreement, the terms of this Trust Agreement shall control.

(f)  
  This Trust Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.     
         -22-

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , this Trust Agreement has been executed on behalf of the parties hereto on the day
and year first above written.       

ALTRIA CLIENT SERVICES INC.   
     
     WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,       as Trustee     

By:  
     
    / S / P ETER  C. F AUST    

By:  
     
    / S / A LAN  C. F RAZIER     

Its:  
     
    V.P. Compensation and Benefits   

Its:  
     
    Senior Vice President    

ATTEST:   

ATTEST:    

By:  
     
    / S / T HOMAS  R. H OUGHTALING    

By:  
     
    / S / T RACY  C. H ARTSELL     

Its:  
     
    Senior Manager of Executive Compensation   

Its:  
     
    Vice President     
         -23-

Attachment A        The following Plans sponsored by the Company are covered by this Trust:       

1.  
  Benefit Equalization Plan (Pension and Profit-Sharing)         

2.  
  Supplemental Management Employees  Retirement Plan     
         -24-

Attachment B     
   Definitions of Plans Change in Control        (referred to as Change in Control in the Plans )    
   1.         Benefit Equalization Plan, Article VIII, B     
  As in effect January 1, 2010       

B.  
  Definition of Change in Control.     
  (1)  Change in Control  shall mean the happening of any of the following events with respect to a Grandfathered Benefit
Equalization Retirement Allowance and Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance:      (a) The
acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and amended (the  Exchange Act )) (a  Person ) of beneficial ownership (within the
meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (i) the then outstanding shares of common stock of Altria Group, Inc. (the  Outstanding Company Common Stock ) or (ii) the combined voting power
of the then outstanding voting securities of Altria Group, Inc. entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the  Outstanding Company Voting Securities  provided, however, that the following acquisitions shall not constitute
a Change in Control: (i) any acquisition directly from Altria Group, Inc., (ii) any acquisition by Altria Group, Inc., (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Altria Group, Inc.
or any corporation controlled by Altria Group, Inc. or (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction described in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (3) of this Section B; or   
  (b) Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason to
constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by Altria Group, Inc. s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at
least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs
as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or   
  (c) Approval by the shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. of a reorganization, merger, share exchange or consolidation (a
 Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and
Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 80% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then
outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business   
         -25-

Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns Altria Group, Inc. through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as
their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of
Altria Group, Inc. or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business
Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board
of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
     (d) Approval by the shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. of (i) a complete liquidation or dissolution of
Altria Group, Inc. or (ii) the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Altria Group, Inc., other than to a corporation, with respect to which following such sale or other disposition, (A) more than 80% of,
respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially
owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such sale
or other disposition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership, immediately prior to such sale or other disposition, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) less
than 20% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then
beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Altria Group, Inc. or such corporation), except to the extent that such Person owned 20% or more of the Outstanding Company Common
Stock or Outstanding Company Voting Securities prior to the sale or disposition and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of such corporation were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the
initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such sale or other disposition of assets of Altria Group, Inc. or were elected, appointed or nominated by the Board.   
  (2)  Change in Control  shall mean the happening of any of the events specified in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-
3(i)(5)(v), (vi) and (vii) with respect to a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance and that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is not a Grandfathered Benefit
Equalization Retirement Allowance and that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is not a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance. For purposes of determining if a Change in Control has occurred, the Change in
Control event must   
         -26-

relate to a corporation identified in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A- 3(i)(5)(ii), provided, however, that (i) the spin-off of the shares of Philip Morris International Inc. to the
shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. shall not be considered to be a Change in Control and (ii) any change in the Incumbent Board coincident with such spin-off shall not be considered to be a Change in Control.   
   2.         Supplemental Management Employees  Retirement Plan, Article I(i) 
      As amended and in effect as of January 1, 2008   
  (1) Change of Control shall mean the happening of any of the following events with respect to a Grandfathered Supplemental Retirement
Allowance, a Grandfathered Supplemental Survivor Income Benefit Allowance and Grandfathered Supplemental Profit-Sharing Allowance:      (A) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a  Person ) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of
Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (i) the then outstanding shares of common stock of Altria Group, Inc. (the  Outstanding Company Common Stock ) or (ii) the combined voting power of the then
outstanding voting securities of Altria Group, Inc. entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the  Outstanding Company Voting Securities  provided, however, that the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of
Control: (i) any acquisition directly from Altria Group, Inc., (ii) any acquisition by Altria Group, Inc., (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Altria Group, Inc. or any
corporation controlled by Altria Group, Inc. or (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction described in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of subparagraph (C) of this Article I, (i) (1) of the Plan; or
     (B) Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors of Altria Group, Inc. (the  Incumbent
Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors of Altria Group, Inc.; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election
by Altria Group, Inc. s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this
purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by
or on behalf of a Person other than the Board of Directors of Altria Group, Inc.; or      (C) Approval by the shareholders of
Altria Group, Inc. of a reorganization, merger, share exchange or consolidation (a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination:      (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately
prior to such Business   
         -27-

Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 80% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting
securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns Altria
Group, Inc. through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may
be;      (ii) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Altria Group, Inc. or such corporation resulting
from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then
outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination; and      (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the
initial agreement, or of the action of the Board of Directors of Altria Group, Inc., providing for such Business Combination; or   
  (D) Approval by the shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. of (1) a complete liquidation or dissolution of Altria Group, Inc. or
(2) the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Altria Group, Inc., other than to a corporation, with respect to which following such sale or other disposition:   
  (i) more than 80% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the combined voting power of the
then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial
owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such sale or other disposition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership, immediately prior to such sale or
other disposition, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be;      (ii)
less than 20% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is
then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Altria Group, Inc. or such corporation), except to the extent that such Person owned 20% or more of
  
         -28-

the Outstanding Company Common Stock or Outstanding Company Voting Securities prior to the sale or disposition; and      (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of such corporation were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the
Board of Directors of Altria Group, Inc., providing for such sale or other disposition of assets of Altria Group, Inc. or were elected, appointed or nominated by the Board of Directors of Altria Group, Inc.; and   
  (2) Change of Control shall mean the happening of any of the events specified in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(i)(5)(v),
(vi) and (vii) with respect to that portion of a Supplemental Retirement Allowance that is not a Grandfathered Supplemental Retirement Allowance, that portion of a Supplemental Survivor Income Benefit Allowance that is not a Grandfathered
Supplemental Survivor Income Benefit Allowance and that portion of a Supplemental Profit-Sharing Allowance that is not a Grandfathered Supplemental Profit-Sharing Allowance. For purposes of determining if a Change of Control has occurred, the Change
of Control event must relate to a corporation identified in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(i)(5)(ii), provided, however, that (i) the spin-off of the shares of Philip Morris International Inc. to the shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. shall
not be considered to be a Change of Control, and (ii) any change in the Incumbent Board coincident with such spin-off shall not be considered to be a Change of Control.   
         -29-

</EX-10.32>

<EX-10.53>
 5
 dex1053.htm
 SECOND AMENDMENT TO THE TIME SHARING AGREEMENT

Second Amendment to the Time Sharing Agreement 

Exhibit 10.53         SECOND AMENDMENT TO TIME SHARING AGREEMENT        On January 28,
2009, Altria Client Services Inc. ( Operator ) and Michael E. Szymanczyk ( User ) entered into a Time Sharing Agreement (the  Agreement ). Pursuant to paragraph 12 of the Agreement, Operator and User amended the
Agreement effective November 12, 2009. The parties wish to further amend the agreement effective October 14, 2010 as follows:       

1.  
  Exhibit A to the Agreement is deleted in its entirety and is replaced with Exhibit A attached to this amendment.     
  Except as modified in this amendment, all other terms and conditions of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. The persons signing below warrant
their authority to sign.       

Operator:  

User:   

ALTRIA CLIENT SERVICES INC.  

MICHAEL E. SZYMANCZYK   

CHARLES N. WHITAKER  

/s/ Charles N. Whitaker   

/s/ Michael E. Szymanczyk     

EXHIBIT A    

2   

</EX-10.53>

<EX-12>
 6
 dex12.htm
 STATEMENTS REGARDING COMPUTATION OF RATIOS

Statements regarding computation of ratios 

Exhibit 12       ALTRIA GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES      Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed
Charges      (in millions of dollars)        

(A)  
  Altria Group, Inc. includes interest relating to uncertain tax positions in its provision for income taxes, therefore such amounts are not included in fixed charges in
the computation.     

(B)  
  Computation includes interest incurred and the portion of rent expense deemed to represent the interest factor from the discontinued operations of Philip Morris
International Inc. and Kraft Foods Inc. in fixed charges. Excluding these amounts from fixed charges, the ratio of earnings to fixed charges from continuing operations would have been 12.5, 9.5, and 7.6 for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively.     

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 7
 dex13.htm
 PAGES 17 TO 113 OF THE 2010 ANNUAL REPORT

Pages 17 to 113 of the 2010 Annual Report 

Table of Contents  

    Exhibit 13           Financial              Review     
             
        Financial Contents   

Selected Financial Data   Five-Year Review    
      
    page 18    

Consolidated Statements of Earnings    
      
    page 19    

Consolidated Balance Sheets    
      
    page 20    

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
      
    page 22    

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity    
      
    page 24    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      
    page 25    

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    
      
    page 83    

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      
    page 112    

Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
      
    page 113         
      Guide To Select Disclosures   

For easy reference, areas that may be of interest to investors are highlighted in the index below.    

Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs   Note 6    
      
    page 31      

Benefit Plans   Note 18 includes a discussion of pension plans    
      
    page 42    

Contingencies   Note 21 includes a discussion of the litigation environment    
      
    page 50    

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net   Note 5    
      
    page 30    

Income Taxes   Note 16     
      
    page 39    

Investment in SABMiller   Note 8    
      
    page 33    

Long-Term Debt   Note 11    
      
    page 36    

Segment Reporting   Note 17    
      
    page 41    

UST Acquisition   Note 3    
      
    page 28         
   
         17   

Table of Contents  

     Selected Financial Data   Five-Year Review   
  (in millions of dollars, except per share data)         
   
    The Selected Financial Data should be read together with
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation  to the consolidated financial statements.   
         18   

Table of Contents  

     Consolidated Statements of Earnings   
  (in millions of dollars, except per share data)         
   
    See notes to consolidated financial statements.   
         19   

Table of Contents  

     Consolidated Balance Sheets      (in millions of dollars, except share and per share data)         
   
    See notes to consolidated financial statements.   
         20   

Table of Contents  

21   

Table of Contents  

     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
  (in millions of dollars)         
   
    See notes to consolidated financial statements.   
         22   

Table of Contents  

23   

Table of Contents  

     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity   
  (in millions of dollars, except per share data)         
           
    (a) Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests for the years ended
December 31, 2010 and 2009 exclude $1 million due to the redeemable noncontrolling interest related to  Stag s Leap Wine Cellars , which is reported in the mezzanine equity section in the consolidated balance sheets at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 21.      See notes to consolidated financial statements.   
         24   

Table of Contents  

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
   
    Note 1.        
      Background and Basis of Presentation:   
           
   Background:  At December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. s wholly-owned subsidiaries included Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and certain smokeless
products in the United States; UST LLC ( UST ), which through its subsidiaries is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless products and wine; and John Middleton Co. ( Middleton ), which is engaged in the manufacture and
sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco. Philip Morris Capital Corporation ( PMCC ), another wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc., maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct finance leases. In addition, Altria Group,
Inc. held a 27.1% economic and voting interest in SABMiller plc ( SABMiller ) at December 31, 2010. Altria Group, Inc. s access to the operating cash flows of its wholly-owned subsidiaries consists of cash received from the
payment of dividends and distributions, and the payment of interest on intercompany loans by its subsidiaries. In addition, Altria Group, Inc. receives cash dividends on its interest in SABMiller, if and when SABMiller pays cash dividends on their
stock.       UST Acquisition:  As discussed in Note 3.  UST Acquisition , on January 6, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all
of the outstanding common stock of UST, whose direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries include U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC ( USSTC ) and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd. ( Ste. Michelle ). As a result of the
acquisition, UST has become an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc.       PMI Spin-Off:  On March 28, 2008 (the
 PMI Distribution Date ), Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its interest in Philip Morris International Inc. ( PMI ) to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 19, 2008 (the
 PMI Record Date ), in a tax-free distribution. Altria Group, Inc. distributed one share of PMI common stock for every share of Altria Group, Inc. common stock outstanding as of the PMI Record Date. Following the PMI Distribution Date,
Altria Group, Inc. does not own any shares of PMI stock. Altria Group, Inc. has reflected the results of PMI prior to the PMI Distribution Date as discontinued operations on the consolidated statement of earnings and the consolidated statement of
cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2008. The distribution resulted in a net decrease to Altria Group, Inc. s total stockholders  equity of $14.7 billion on the PMI Distribution Date.   
  Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options were treated similarly to public stockholders and, accordingly, had their stock awards split into two
instruments. Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options received the following stock options, which, immediately after the spin-off, had an aggregate intrinsic value equal to the intrinsic value of the pre-spin Altria Group, Inc. options:
              a new PMI option to acquire the same number of shares of PMI common stock as the number of Altria Group, Inc. options held by such person on the PMI Distribution Date; and   
           an
 adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option for the same number of shares of Altria Group, Inc. common stock with a reduced exercise price.      As
set forth in the Employee Matters Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI (the  PMI Employee Matters Agreement ), the exercise price of each option was developed to reflect the relative market values of PMI and Altria Group, Inc.
shares, by allocating the share price of Altria Group, Inc. common stock before the spin-off ($73.83) to PMI shares ($51.44) and Altria Group, Inc. shares ($22.39) and then multiplying each of these allocated values by the Option Conversion Ratio as
defined in the PMI Employee Matters Agreement. The Option Conversion Ratio was equal to the exercise price of the Altria Group, Inc. option, prior to any adjustment for the spin-off, divided by the share price of Altria Group, Inc. common stock
before the spin-off ($73.83).      Holders of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock awarded prior to January 30, 2008,
retained their existing awards and received the same number of shares of restricted or deferred stock of PMI. The restricted stock and deferred stock will not vest until the completion of the original restriction period (typically, three years from
the date of the original grant). Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 30, 2008, who were employed by Altria Group, Inc. after the PMI Distribution Date, received additional shares of deferred stock of Altria Group,
Inc. to preserve the intrinsic value of the award. Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 30, 2008, who were employed by PMI after the PMI Distribution Date, received substitute shares of deferred stock of PMI to
preserve the intrinsic value of the award.      To the extent that employees of Altria Group, Inc. after the PMI Distribution Date received
PMI stock options, Altria Group, Inc. reimbursed PMI in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options received. To the extent that PMI employees held Altria Group, Inc. stock options, PMI reimbursed Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the
Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options. To the extent that employees of Altria Group, Inc. received PMI deferred stock, Altria Group, Inc. paid to PMI the fair value of the PMI deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures. To the
extent that PMI employees held Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock, PMI reimbursed Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the fair value of the restricted or deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures and any amounts previously
charged to PMI for the restricted or deferred stock. Based upon the number of   
         25   

Table of Contents  

Altria Group, Inc. stock awards outstanding at the PMI Distribution Date, the net amount of these reimbursements resulted in a payment of $449 million from Altria Group, Inc. to PMI. The
reimbursement to PMI is reflected as a decrease to the additional paid-in capital of Altria Group, Inc. on the December 31, 2008 consolidated balance sheet.      In connection with the spin-off, PMI paid to Altria Group, Inc. $4.0 billion in special dividends in addition to its normal dividends to Altria Group, Inc. PMI paid $3.1 billion of these special dividends in 2007
and paid the additional $900 million in the first quarter of 2008.      Prior to the PMI spin-off, PMI was included in the Altria Group, Inc.
consolidated federal income tax return, and PMI s federal income tax contingencies were recorded as liabilities on the balance sheet of Altria Group, Inc. Altria Group, Inc. reimbursed PMI in cash for these liabilities. See Note 16.  Income
Taxes  for a discussion of the Tax Sharing Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that is currently in effect.      Prior to the PMI
spin-off, certain employees of PMI participated in the U.S. benefit plans offered by Altria Group, Inc. The benefits previously provided by Altria Group, Inc. are now provided by PMI. As a result, new plans were established by PMI, and the related
plan assets (to the extent that the benefit plans were previously funded) and liabilities were transferred to the PMI plans. Altria Group, Inc. paid PMI in cash for these transfers.   
  A subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc. previously provided PMI with certain corporate services at cost plus a management fee. After the PMI Distribution
Date, PMI independently undertook most of these activities. All remaining limited services provided to PMI ceased in 2008. The settlement of the intercompany accounts as of the PMI Distribution Date (including amounts related to stock awards, tax
contingencies and benefit plans discussed above) resulted in a net payment from Altria Group, Inc. to PMI of $332 million. In March 2008, Altria Group, Inc. made an estimated payment of $427 million to PMI, thereby resulting in PMI reimbursing $95
million to Altria Group, Inc. in the second quarter of 2008.       Dividends and Share Repurchases:  Following the PMI spin-off,
Altria Group, Inc. lowered its dividend so that holders of both Altria Group, Inc. and PMI shares would receive initially, in the aggregate, the same dividends paid by Altria Group, Inc. prior to the PMI spin-off.   
  On February 24, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors approved a 2.9% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.35 per common share
from $0.34 per common share. On August 27, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors approved an additional 8.6% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.38 per common share, resulting in an aggregate quarterly dividend rate increase
of 11.8% since the beginning of 2010. The current annualized dividend rate is $1.52 per Altria Group, Inc. common share. Future dividend payments remain subject to the discretion of Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors.   
  In January 2011, Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors authorized a new $1.0 billion one-year share repurchase program. Share repurchases
under this program depend upon marketplace conditions and other factors. The share repurchase program remains subject to the discretion of Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors.   
  During the second quarter of 2008, Altria Group, Inc. repurchased 53.5 million shares of its common stock at an aggregate cost of approximately
$1.2 billion, or an average price of $21.81 per share pursuant to its $4.0 billion (2008 to 2010) share repurchase program. No shares were repurchased during 2010 or 2009 under this share repurchase program, which was suspended in September 2009.
The new share repurchase program replaces the suspended program.   
          
    Basis of presentation:  The consolidated financial statements include Altria Group, Inc., as well as its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries. Investments in which Altria Group, Inc. exercises significant influence
(20%-50% ownership interest) are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.      The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Significant estimates and
assumptions include, among other things, pension and benefit plan assumptions, lives and valuation assumptions for goodwill and other intangible assets, marketing programs, income taxes, and the allowance for loan losses and estimated residual
values of finance leases. Actual results could differ from those estimates.      Balance sheet accounts are segregated by two broad
types of business. Consumer products assets and liabilities are classified as either current or non-current, whereas financial services assets and liabilities are unclassified, in accordance with respective industry practices.   
  The 2009 reduction of a Kraft Foods Inc. ( Kraft ) tax-related receivable has been reclassified to conform with the current year s
presentation.   

    Note 2.        
      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies:   
          
    Cash and cash equivalents:  Cash equivalents include demand deposits with banks and all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. Cash equivalents are stated at cost plus accrued interest,
which approximates fair value.                  Depreciation, amortization and intangible asset valuation:  Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost and depreciated by the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the assets. Machinery and equipment are depreciated over periods up to 25 years, and buildings and building improvements over periods up to 50 years.   
         26   

Table of Contents  

   Definite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Altria Group, Inc.
conducts a required annual review of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment, and more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would require Altria Group, Inc. to perform an interim review.
Goodwill impairment testing requires a comparison between the carrying value and fair value of each reporting unit. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, goodwill is considered impaired. The amount of impairment loss is measured as the
difference between the carrying value and implied fair value of goodwill, which is determined using discounted cash flows. Impairment testing for indefinite-lived intangible assets requires a comparison between the fair value and carrying value of
the intangible asset. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, Altria Group, Inc. completed its annual review of goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets, and no impairment charges resulted from these reviews.                  Environmental costs:  Altria Group, Inc. is subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the
environment. Altria Group, Inc. provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Such accruals are adjusted as new information
develops or circumstances change.      Compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including the payment of any remediation and
compliance costs or damages and the making of related expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows (see
Note 21.  Contingencies    Environmental Regulation).                  Fair Value Measurements:  Altria Group, Inc. measures certain assets and liabilities at fair value. Fair value is defined
as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the
measurement date. Altria Group, Inc. uses a fair value hierarchy, which gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities (level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable
inputs (level 3 measurements). The three levels of inputs used to measure fair value are:       

Level 1  
  Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.         

Level 2  
  Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are
observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.         

Level 3  
  Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.     
  The fair value of substantially all of Altria Group, Inc. s pension assets is based on observable inputs, including readily available quoted
market prices, which meet the definition of a Level 1 or Level 2 input. For the fair value disclosure of the pension plan assets, see Note 18.  Benefit Plans .      Altria Group, Inc. assesses the fair value of any derivative financial instruments using internally developed models that use, as their basis, readily observable future amounts, such as cash flows, earnings, and
the current market expectations of those future amounts. As discussed in Note 20.  Financial Instruments , at December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. had no derivative financial instruments remaining.   
          
    Finance leases:  Income attributable to leveraged leases is initially recorded as unearned income and subsequently recognized as revenue over the terms of the respective leases at constant after-tax rates of return on the
positive net investment balances. Investments in leveraged leases are stated net of related nonrecourse debt obligations.      Income
attributable to direct finance leases is initially recorded as unearned income and subsequently recognized as revenue over the terms of the respective leases at constant pre-tax rates of return on the net investment balances.   
  Finance leases include unguaranteed residual values that represent PMCC s estimates at lease inception as to the fair values of assets under
lease at the end of the non-cancelable lease terms. The estimated residual values are reviewed annually by PMCC s management, which includes analysis of a number of factors, including activity in the relevant industry. If necessary, revisions
are recorded to reduce the residual values. Such reviews resulted in a decrease of $11 million to PMCC s net revenues and results of operations in 2010. There were no adjustments in 2009 and 2008.   
  PMCC considers rents receivable past due when they are beyond the grace period of their contractual due date. PMCC ceases recording income
( non-accrual status ) on rents receivable when contractual payments become 90 days past due or earlier if management believes there is significant uncertainty of collectability of rent payments, and resumes recording income when
collectability of rent payments is reasonably certain. Payments received on rents receivable that are on non-accrual status are used to reduce the rents receivable balance. Write-offs to the allowance for losses are recorded when amounts are deemed
to be uncollectible. There were no rents receivable on non-accrual status at December 31, 2010.                  Foreign currency translation:  Altria Group, Inc. translates the results of operations of its foreign subsidiaries using
average exchange rates during each period, whereas balance sheet accounts are translated using exchange rates at the end of each period. Currency translation adjustments are recorded as a component of stockholders  equity. The accumulated
currency translation adjustments related to PMI were recognized and recorded in connection with the PMI distribution. Transaction gains and losses are recorded in the consolidated   
         27   

Table of Contents  

statements of earnings and are not significant for any of the periods presented.                  Guarantees:  Altria Group, Inc. recognizes a liability for the fair
value of the obligation of qualifying guarantee activities. See Note 21.  Contingencies  for a further discussion of guarantees.                  Impairment of long-lived assets:  Altria Group, Inc. reviews
long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Altria Group, Inc. performs undiscounted
operating cash flow analyses to determine if an impairment exists. For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment for assets held for use, Altria Group, Inc. groups assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are
separately identifiable. If an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value. Impairment losses on assets to be disposed of, if any, are based on the estimated proceeds to be received, less costs of
disposal.                  Income taxes:  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted
tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions.   
  Altria Group, Inc. recognizes a benefit for uncertain tax positions when a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return is
more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.   
  Altria Group, Inc. recognizes accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of the provision for income taxes on
its consolidated statements of earnings.   
           
   Inventories:  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The last-in, first-out ( LIFO ) method is used to cost substantially all tobacco inventories. The cost of the remaining inventories is determined
using the first-in, first-out ( FIFO ) and average cost methods. It is a generally recognized industry practice to classify leaf tobacco and wine inventories as current assets although part of such inventory, because of the duration of the
curing and aging process, ordinarily would not be utilized within one year.                  Marketing costs:  The consumer products businesses promote their products with consumer engagement programs, consumer
incentives and trade promotions. Such programs include, but are not limited to, discounts, coupons, rebates, in-store display incentives, event marketing and volume-based incentives. Consumer engagement programs are expensed as incurred. Consumer
incentive and trade promotion activities are recorded as a reduction of revenues based on amounts estimated as being due to customers and consumers at the end of a period, based principally on historical utilization and redemption rates. For interim
reporting purposes, consumer engagement programs and certain consumer incentive expenses are charged to operations as a percentage of sales, based on estimated sales and related expenses for the full year.   
          
    Revenue recognition:  The consumer products businesses recognize revenues, net of sales incentives and sales returns, and including shipping and handling charges billed to customers, upon shipment or delivery of goods when
title and risk of loss pass to customers. Payments received in advance of revenue recognition are deferred and recorded in other accrued liabilities until revenue is recognized. Altria Group, Inc. s consumer products businesses also include
excise taxes billed to customers in net revenues. Shipping and handling costs are classified as part of cost of sales.                  Stock-based compensation:  Altria Group, Inc. measures compensation
cost for all stock-based awards at fair value on date of grant and recognizes compensation expense over the service periods for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock and deferred stock is determined based on the number of
shares granted and the market value at date of grant. The fair value of stock options is determined using a modified Black-Scholes methodology.   

      Note 3.        
      UST Acquisition:   
  On January 6, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding common stock of UST. The transaction was valued at approximately $11.7 billion, which
represented a purchase price of $10.4 billion and approximately $1.3 billion of UST debt, which together with acquisition-related costs and payments of approximately $0.6 billion (consisting primarily of financing fees, the funding of UST s
non-qualified pension plans, investment banking fees and the early retirement of UST s revolving credit facility), represented a total cash outlay of approximately $11 billion.   
  In connection with the acquisition of UST, Altria Group, Inc. had in place at December 31, 2008, a 364-day term bridge loan facility
( Bridge Facility ). On January 6, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. borrowed the entire available amount of $4.3 billion under the Bridge Facility, which was used along with available cash of $6.7 billion, representing the net proceeds from
the issuances of senior unsecured long-term notes in November and December 2008, to fund the acquisition of UST. As discussed in Note 11.  Long-Term Debt , in February 2009, Altria Group, Inc. also issued $4.2 billion of senior unsecured
long-term notes. The net proceeds from the issuance of these notes, along with available cash, were used to prepay all of the outstanding borrowings under the Bridge Facility. Upon such prepayment, the Bridge Facility was terminated.
     UST s financial position and results of operations have been consolidated with Altria Group, Inc. as of January 6, 2009. Pro
forma results of Altria Group, Inc., for the year ended December 31, 2009, assuming the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2009, would not be materially different from the actual results reported for the year ended
  
         28   

Table of Contents  

December 31, 2009. The following unaudited supplemental pro forma data present consolidated information of Altria Group, Inc. as if the acquisition of UST had been consummated on
January 1, 2008. The pro forma results are not necessarily indicative of what actually would have occurred if the acquisition and related borrowings had been consummated on January 1, 2008.   
   
    The pro forma amounts reflect the application of the following
adjustments as if the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2008:               additional depreciation and amortization expense that would have been charged assuming the fair value adjustments to property, plant and
equipment, and intangible assets had been applied from January 1, 2008;               additional interest expense and financing fees that would have been incurred assuming all borrowing arrangements used to fund the
acquisition had been in place as of January 1, 2008;               restructuring costs incurred to restructure and integrate UST operations;   
           transaction
 costs associated with the acquisition; and   
           increased
 cost of sales, reflecting the fair value adjustment of UST s subsidiaries  inventory sold during the year.      During the
fourth quarter of 2009, the allocation of purchase price relating to the acquisition of UST was completed. The following amounts represent the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the UST acquisition:   
   
    The excess of the purchase price paid by Altria Group, Inc.
over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in the acquisition of UST primarily reflects the value of adding USSTC and its subsidiaries to Altria Group, Inc. s family of tobacco operating companies (PM USA and Middleton), with
leading brands in cigarettes, smokeless products and machine-made large cigars, and anticipated annual synergies of approximately $300 million resulting primarily from reduced selling, general and administrative, and corporate expenses. None of the
goodwill or other intangible assets will be deductible for tax purposes.      The assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling
interests of UST have been measured as of the acquisition date. In valuing trademarks, Altria Group, Inc. estimated the fair value using a discounted cash flow methodology. No material contingent liabilities were recognized as of the acquisition
date because the acquisition date fair value of such contingencies cannot be determined, and the contingencies are not both probable and reasonably estimable. Additionally, costs incurred to effect the acquisition, as well as costs to restructure
UST, are being recognized as expenses in the periods in which the costs are incurred. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, Altria Group, Inc. incurred pre-tax acquisition-related charges, as well as restructuring and
integration costs, consisting of the following:       
 
         29   

Table of Contents  

   Total acquisition-related charges, as well as restructuring and integration costs incurred since the
September 8, 2008 announcement of the acquisition, were $542 million as of December 31, 2010. Pre-tax charges and costs related to the acquisition of UST are substantially complete.   

    Note 4.        
      Divestiture:   
  As discussed in Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation , on March 28, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its interest in PMI to Altria
Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution.      Summarized financial information for the discontinued operations of PMI for the
year ended December 31, 2008 was as follows:       

Note 5.        
      Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net:   
  Goodwill and other intangible assets, net, by segment were as follows:       
    Goodwill relates to the January 2009 acquisition of UST (see
Note 3.  UST Acquisition ) and the December 2007 acquisition of Middleton.      Other intangible assets consisted of the following:
      
    Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist substantially of
trademarks from the January 2009 acquisition of UST ($9.1 billion) and the December 2007 acquisition of Middleton ($2.6 billion). Definite-lived intangible assets, which consist primarily of customer relationships and certain cigarette trademarks,
are amortized over periods up to 25 years. Pre-tax amortization expense for definite-lived intangible assets during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, was $20 million, $20 million and $7 million, respectively. Annual amortization
expense for each of the next five years is estimated to be approximately $20 million, assuming no additional transactions occur that require the amortization of intangible assets.   
  The changes in goodwill and gross carrying amount of other intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows:

30   

Table of Contents  

Note 6.        
      Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs:
     Pre-tax asset impairment, exit, implementation and integration costs for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 consisted of the
following:       
        The movement in the severance liability and details of asset impairment and exit costs for Altria Group, Inc. for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was as follows:   
   
    Other charges in the table above primarily include other
employee termination benefits including pension and postretirement. Charges, net in the table above include the reversal of $13 million of severance costs associated with the Manufacturing Optimization Program in 2010.   
  The pre-tax asset impairment, exit, implementation, and integration costs shown above are primarily a result of the programs discussed below.

Integration and Restructuring Program:  Altria Group, Inc. has substantially completed a restructuring program that commenced in December 2008, and was expanded in August 2009. Pursuant to this program, Altria Group, Inc.
restructured corporate, manufacturing, and sales and marketing services functions in connection with the integration of UST and its focus on optimizing company-wide cost structures in light of ongoing declines in U.S. cigarette volumes.   
         31   

Table of Contents  

   As a result of this restructuring program, pre-tax asset impairment, exit and integration costs for
the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 consisted of the following:       
     
    For the year ended December 31, 2008, pre-tax exit costs
of $126 million was recorded for the program in the cigarettes segment ($48 million), financial services segment ($2 million) and general corporate ($76 million).      These charges are primarily related to employee separation costs, lease exit costs, relocation of employees, asset impairments and other costs related to the integration of UST operations. The pre-tax integration
costs were included in marketing, administration and research costs on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Total pre-tax charges incurred since the inception of the
program through December 31, 2010 were $482 million. Cash payments related to the program of $111 million and $221 million were made during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for a total of $332 million since
inception. Cash payments related to this program are substantially complete.                  Headquarters Relocation:  During 2008, in connection with the spin-off of PMI, Altria Group, Inc. restructured its
corporate headquarters, which included the relocation of Altria Group, Inc. s corporate headquarters functions to Richmond, Virginia. This program has been completed. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, Altria Group,
Inc. incurred pre-tax charges of $2 million, $30 million and $219 million, respectively, for this program. Total pre-tax charges incurred since the inception of this restructuring were $251 million as of December 31, 2010. These charges
consisted primarily of employee separation costs. Cash payments related to this restructuring of $7 million, $65 million and $136 million were made during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, for a total of $208
million since inception. Cash payments related to this program are substantially complete.      For the year ended December 31, 2008,
general corporate exit costs also included $55 million of investment banking and legal fees associated with the PMI spin-off.                  Manufacturing Optimization Program:  PM USA ceased production at its
Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and completed the consolidation of its cigarette manufacturing capacity into its Richmond, Virginia facility on July 29, 2009. PM USA took this action to address ongoing cigarette volume declines
including the impact of the federal excise tax ( FET ) increase enacted in early 2009. During 2010, PM USA substantially completed the de-commissioning of the Cabarrus facility and expects to fully complete the de-commissioning in early
2011.      In October 2010, PM USA entered into an agreement for the sale of the Cabarrus facility and land. In November 2010, the
prospective purchaser exercised its right to terminate the agreement. The future sale of the Cabarrus facility and land will not have a material impact on the financial results of Altria Group, Inc.   
  As a result of this consolidation program, which commenced in 2007, PM USA expects to incur total pre-tax charges of approximately $800 million,
which consist of employee separation costs of $325 million, accelerated depreciation of $275 million and other charges of $200 million, primarily related to the relocation of employees and equipment, net of estimated gains on sales of land and
buildings. Total pre-tax charges incurred for the program through December 31, 2010 of $824 million, which are reflected in the cigarettes segment, do not reflect estimated gains from the future sales of land and buildings.   
  PM USA recorded pre-tax charges for this program as follows:       
            Pre-tax implementation costs
related to this program were primarily related to accelerated depreciation and were included in cost of sales in the consolidated statements of earnings for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
  Cash payments related to the program of $128 million, $210 million and $85 million were made during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively, for total cash payments of $434 million since inception, which do not reflect estimated proceeds on future sales of land and buildings. Cash payments related to this program are substantially complete.   
         32   

Table of Contents  

Note 7.        
          Inventories:      The cost of approximately 71% and 75% of inventories in 2010 and 2009, respectively, was determined
using the LIFO method. The stated LIFO amounts of inventories were approximately $0.7 billion and $0.8 billion lower than the current cost of inventories at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

Note 8.        
          Investment in SABMiller:      At December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. held a 27.1% economic and voting interest in
SABMiller. Altria Group, Inc. s investment in SABMiller is being accounted for under the equity method.      Pre-tax earnings from
Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller consisted of the following:       
    Summary financial data of SABMiller is as follows:   

The fair value, based on market quotes, of Altria Group,
Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller at December 31, 2010, was $15.1 billion, as compared with its carrying value of $5.4 billion. The fair value, based on market quotes, of Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller at
December 31, 2009, was $12.7 billion, as compared with its carrying value of $5.0 billion.       

      Note 9.        
          Finance Assets, net:      In 2003, PMCC ceased making new investments and began focusing exclusively on managing its
existing portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize gains and generate cash flow from asset sales and related activities. Accordingly, PMCC s operating companies income will fluctuate over time as investments mature or are sold. During
2010, 2009 and 2008, proceeds from asset sales, lease maturities and bankruptcy recoveries totaled $312 million, $793 million and $403 million, respectively, and gains included in operating companies income totaled $72 million, $257 million and $87
million, respectively.      At December 31, 2010, finance assets, net, of $4,502 million were comprised of investments in finance leases
of $4,704 million, reduced by the allowance for losses of $202 million. At December 31, 2009, finance assets, net, of $4,803 million were comprised of investments in finance leases of $5,069 million, reduced by the allowance for losses of $266
million.          A summary of the net investments in finance leases at
December 31, before allowance for losses, was as follows:       
       
         33   

Table of Contents  

   For leveraged leases, rents receivable, net, represent unpaid rents, net of principal and interest
payments on third-party nonrecourse debt. PMCC s rights to rents receivable are subordinate to the third-party nonrecourse debtholders, and the leased equipment is pledged as collateral to the debtholders. The repayment of the nonrecourse debt
is collateralized by lease payments receivable and the leased property, and is nonrecourse to the general assets of PMCC. As required by U.S. GAAP, the third-party nonrecourse debt of $8.3 billion and $9.2 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, has been offset against the related rents receivable. There were no leases with contingent rentals in 2010 and 2009.      At
December 31, 2010, PMCC s investments in finance leases were principally comprised of the following investment categories: rail and surface transport (30%), aircraft (25%), electric power (24%), real estate (12%) and manufacturing
(9%). Investments located outside the United States, which are all U.S. dollar-denominated, represent 23% and 22% of PMCC s investments in finance leases at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
  Rents receivable in excess of debt service requirements on third-party nonrecourse debt related to leveraged leases and rents receivable from direct
finance leases at December 31, 2010, were as follows:       
    Included in net revenues for the years ended December 31,
2010, 2009 and 2008, were leveraged lease revenues of $160 million, $341 million and $210 million, respectively, and direct finance lease revenues of $1 million, $7 million and $5 million, respectively. Income tax expense on leveraged lease revenues
for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, was $58 million, $119 million and $72 million, respectively.      Income from
investment tax credits on leveraged leases, and initial direct and executory costs on direct finance leases, were not significant during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.   
  PMCC maintains an allowance for losses, which provides for estimated losses on its investments in finance leases. PMCC s portfolio consists of
leveraged and direct finance leases to a diverse base of lessees participating in a wide variety of industries. Losses on such leases are recorded when probable and estimable. PMCC regularly performs a systematic assessment of each individual lease
in its portfolio to determine potential credit or collection issues that might indicate impairment. Impairment takes into consideration both the probability of default and the likelihood of recovery if default were to occur. PMCC considers both
quantitative and qualitative factors of each investment when performing its assessment of the allowance for losses.      Quantitative factors
that indicate potential default are tied most directly to public debt ratings. PMCC monitors all publicly available information on its obligors, including financial statements and credit rating agency reports. Qualitative factors that indicate the
likelihood of recovery if default were to occur include, but are not limited to, underlying collateral value, other forms of credit support, and legal/structural considerations impacting each lease. Using all available information, PMCC calculates
potential losses for each lease in its portfolio based on its default and recovery assumption for each lease. The aggregate of these potential losses forms a range of potential losses which is used as a guideline to determine the adequacy of
PMCC s allowance for losses.      PMCC has assessed its allowance for losses for its entire portfolio, and believes that the allowance
for losses of $202 million is adequate. PMCC continues to monitor economic and credit conditions, and the individual situations of its lessees and their respective industries, and may have to increase its allowance for losses if such conditions
worsen. All PMCC lessees were current on their lease payment obligations as of December 31, 2010.      The credit quality of PMCC s
investments in finance leases at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was as follows:       
    The activity in the allowance for losses on finance assets for
the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was as follows:       
    PMCC leased, under several lease arrangements, various types of
automotive manufacturing equipment to General Motors Corporation ( GM ), which filed for bankruptcy on June 1, 2009. As of the date of the bankruptcy filing, PMCC stopped recording income on its $214 million investment in finance
leases from GM. During 2009, GM rejected one of the leases, which resulted in a $49 million write-off against PMCC s allowance for losses, lowering the investment in finance leases balance from GM to $165 million. General Motors LLC ( New
GM ), which is the successor of GM s North American automobile business, agreed to assume nearly all the remaining leases under same terms as GM, except for a rebate of a portion of future rents. The assignment of the leases to New GM was
approved by the bankruptcy court and became effective in March 2010. During the   
         34   

Table of Contents  

first quarter of 2010, GM rejected another lease that was not assigned to New GM. The impact of the rent rebates and the 2010 lease rejection resulted in a $64 million write-off against
PMCC s allowance for losses in the first quarter of 2010. In the first quarter of 2010, PMCC participated in a transaction pursuant to which the equipment related to the rejected leases was sold to New GM. These transactions resulted in an
acceleration of deferred taxes of $34 million in 2010. As of December 31, 2010, PMCC s investment in finance leases from New GM was $101 million.      During the second quarter of 2010, PMCC completed the replacement of Ambac Assurance Corporation ( Ambac ) in the one remaining lease transaction with indirect exposure to this credit support provider
whose credit rating remained below investment grade. Ambac was replaced by a company rated  AA+/Aa1  by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services ( Standard   Poor s ) and Moody s Investors Service, Inc.
( Moody s ), respectively. PMCC has no remaining exposure to Ambac.      On January 5, 2010, Mesa Airlines, Inc.
( Mesa ) filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. At the bankruptcy date, PMCC s portfolio included five aircraft under leveraged leases with Mesa with a finance asset balance of $21 million. PMCC s interest in these leases
was secured by letters of credit. Upon the bankruptcy filing, PMCC drew on the letters of credit and recovered its outstanding investment.   
  During 2009, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $15 million based on management s assessment of its portfolio, including its exposure
to GM. During 2008, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $100 million primarily as a result of credit rating downgrades of certain lessees and financial market conditions.   
  See Note 21.  Contingencies  for a discussion of the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) disallowance of certain tax benefits pertaining
to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions.   

    Note 10.        
      Short-Term Borrowings and Borrowing Arrangements:   
  At December 31, 2010 and 2009, Altria Group, Inc. had no short-term borrowings.      At December 31, 2010, the credit lines for Altria Group, Inc. and related activity were as follows:       
    At December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. had in place a
senior unsecured 364-day revolving credit agreement (the  364-Day Agreement ) and a senior unsecured 3-year revolving credit agreement (the  3-Year Agreement  and, together with the 364-Day Agreement, the  Revolving Credit
Agreements ). Altria Group, Inc. entered into the 364-Day Agreement on November 17, 2010. This agreement provides for borrowings up to an aggregate principal amount of $0.6 billion and expires on November 16, 2011. The 364-Day
Agreement replaced Altria Group, Inc. s previous $0.6 billion senior unsecured 364-day revolving credit agreement, which was terminated effective November 17, 2010. The 3-Year Agreement provides for borrowings up to an aggregate principal
amount of $2.4 billion and expires on November 20, 2012. Pricing under the Revolving Credit Agreements may be modified in the event of a change in the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt. Interest rates on
borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreements will be based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) plus a percentage equal to Altria Group, Inc. s credit default swap spread subject to certain minimum rates and maximum
rates based on the higher of the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long- term senior unsecured debt from Standard   Poor s and Moody s. The applicable minimum and maximum rates based on Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior
unsecured debt ratings at December 31, 2010 for the 364-Day-Agreement are 1.0% and 2.25%, respectively. The applicable minimum and maximum rates based on Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt ratings at
December 31, 2010 for the 3-Year Agreement are 2.0% and 4.0%, respectively. The Revolving Credit Agreements do not include any other rating triggers, nor do they contain any provisions that could require the posting of collateral.
     The Revolving Credit Agreements are used for general corporate purposes and to support Altria Group, Inc. s commercial paper
issuances. The Revolving Credit Agreements require that Altria Group, Inc. maintain (i) a ratio of debt to consolidated EBITDA of not more than 3.0 to 1.0 and (ii) a ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense of not less
than 4.0 to 1.0, each calculated as of the end of the applicable quarter on a rolling four-quarters basis. At December 31, 2010, the ratios of debt to consolidated EBITDA and consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense, calculated in
accordance with the Revolving Credit Agreements, were 1.7 to 1.0 and 6.2 to 1.0, respectively. Altria Group, Inc. expects to continue to meet its covenants associated with the Revolving Credit Agreements. The terms  consolidated EBITDA, 
 debt  and  consolidated interest expense  as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreements include certain adjustments.   
  Any commercial paper issued by Altria Group, Inc. and borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreements are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by
PM USA (see Note 22.  Condensed Consolidating Financial Information ).   
         35   

Table of Contents  

Note 11.        
      Long-Term Debt:   
  At December 31, 2010 and 2009, Altria Group, Inc. s long-term debt, all of which was consumer products debt, consisted of the following:   
   
    Aggregate maturities of long-term debt are as follows:
      
    The aggregate fair value, based substantially on readily
available quoted market prices, of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term debt at December 31, 2010, was $15.5 billion, as compared with its carrying value of $12.2 billion. The aggregate fair value, based substantially on readily available quoted
market prices, of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term debt at December 31, 2009, was $14.4 billion, as compared with its carrying value of $12.0 billion.      During 2010, 2009 and 2008 the following long-term debt transactions occurred:       Altria Group, Inc.
Senior Notes:        August 2010 and June 2010 Issuances                $1.0 billion (aggregate principal amount) of
4.125% senior unsecured long-term notes due September 2015, which consisted of $800 million issued in June 2010 and $200 million issued in August 2010. Interest on each issuance will be paid semiannually, with interest accruing from June 2010.
      February 2009 Issuance                $525 million at 7.75%, due 2014, interest payable semi-annually;   
           $2.2
 billion at 9.25%, due 2019, interest payable semi-annually; and               $1.5 billion at 10.20%, due 2039, interest payable semi-annually.       December 2008 Issuance                $775 million at 7.125%, due 2010, interest payable semi-annually. In June 2010, these notes matured and were repaid.   
   November 2008 Issuance                $1.4 billion at 8.50%, due 2013, interest payable semi-annually;   
           $3.1
 billion at 9.70%, due 2018, interest payable semi-annually; and               $1.5 billion at 9.95%, due 2038, interest payable semi-annually.      The net proceeds from the issuances of senior unsecured notes in 2010 were added to Altria Group, Inc. s general funds, which may be used to meet working capital requirements, refinance debt or for general
corporate purposes. The net proceeds from the issuances of senior unsecured long-term notes in November 2008 and December 2008 were used along with borrowings under the Bridge Facility (see Note 3.  UST Acquisition ) to fund the acquisition of
UST. The net proceeds from the issuance of senior unsecured long-term notes in February 2009, along with available cash, were used to prepay all of the outstanding borrowings under the Bridge Facility.   
          The notes are Altria Group, Inc. s senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all
of Altria Group, Inc. s existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. Upon the occurrence of both (i) a change of control of Altria Group, Inc. and (ii) the notes ceasing to be rated investment grade by each of Moody s,
Standard   Poor s and Fitch Ratings Ltd. within a specified time period, Altria Group, Inc. will be required to make an offer to purchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued
and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase as and to the extent set forth in the terms of the notes. With respect to the senior unsecured long-term notes from the February 2009 and November 2008 issuances, the interest rate payable on each series
of notes is subject to adjustment from time to time if the rating assigned to the notes of such series by Moody s or Standard   Poor s is downgraded (or subsequently upgraded) as and to the extent set forth in the terms of the
notes.      The obligations of Altria Group, Inc. under the notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by PM USA (see Note 22.
 Condensed Consolidating Financial Information ).       UST Senior Notes:  As discussed in Note 3.  UST Acquisition , the
purchase price for the acquisition of UST included approximately $1.3 billion of UST debt, of which $900 million was long-term debt and $240 million was current portion of long-term debt. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, UST s senior notes
consisted of the following:               $600 million at 6.625%, due 2012, interest payable semi-annually; and               $300 million at 5.75%, due 2018, interest payable semi-annually.   
         36   

Table of Contents  

   UST senior notes of $200 million and $40 million matured and were repaid in June 2009.   
  The UST notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of UST s existing and future senior unsecured and
unsubordinated indebtedness. With respect to the $300 million senior notes, upon the occurrence of both (i) a change of control of UST and (ii) these notes ceasing to be rated investment grade by each of Moody s and
Standard   Poor s within a specified time period, UST would be required to make an offer to purchase these notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such series, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
repurchase as and to the extent set forth in the terms of these notes.       Repayment of Other Consumer Products Debt:  A subsidiary of
PM USA repaid a $135 million term loan that matured in May 2009.       Repayment of Financial Services Debt:  Financial services debt of
$500 million matured and was repaid in July 2009.       Tender Offer for Altria Group, Inc. Notes:  In connection with the spin-off
of PMI, in the first quarter of 2008, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiary, Altria Finance (Cayman Islands) Ltd. (dissolved in December 2009), completed tender offers to purchase for cash $2.3 billion of notes and debentures denominated in U.S.
dollars, and      373 million in euro-denominated bonds, equivalent to $568 million in U.S. dollars.   
  As a result of the tender offers and consent solicitations, Altria Group, Inc. recorded a pre-tax loss of $393 million, which included tender and
consent fees of $371 million, on the early extinguishment of debt in the first quarter of 2008.   

    Note 12.        
      Capital Stock:   
  Shares of authorized common stock are 12 billion; issued, repurchased and outstanding shares were as follows:   
   
    At December 31, 2010, 54,955,609 shares of common stock
were reserved for stock options and other stock awards under Altria Group, Inc. s stock plans, and 10 million shares of Serial Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value, were authorized. No shares of Serial Preferred Stock have been issued.

Note 13.        
      Stock Plans:   
  In 2010, Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors adopted, and the stockholders approved, the Altria Group, Inc. 2010 Performance Incentive Plan (the  2010
Plan ). The 2010 Plan replaced the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan when it expired on May 1, 2010. Under the 2010 Plan, Altria Group, Inc. may grant to eligible employees stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock,
restricted and deferred stock units, and other stock-based awards, as well as cash-based annual and long-term incentive awards. Up to 50 million shares of common stock may be issued under the 2010 Plan. In addition, Altria Group, Inc. may grant
up to one million shares of common stock to members of the Board of Directors who are not employees of Altria Group, Inc. under the Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the  Directors Plan ). Shares available to be granted
under the 2010 Plan and the Directors Plan at December 31, 2010, were 49,997,960 and 716,708, respectively.      Certain modifications
were made to stock options, restricted stock and deferred stock as a result of the PMI spin-off in 2008, as discussed in Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation.       Altria Group, Inc. has not granted stock options to employees since 2002.       Stock Option Plan    
  In connection with the PMI spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. employee stock options were modified through the issuance of PMI employee stock options and the adjustment
of the stock option exercise prices for the Altria Group, Inc. awards. For each employee stock option outstanding, the aggregate intrinsic value of the option immediately after the spin-off was not greater than the aggregate intrinsic value of the
option immediately before the spin-off. Because the Black-Scholes fair values of the awards immediately before and immediately after the spin-off were equivalent, no incremental compensation expense was recorded as a result of the modifications of
the Altria Group, Inc. awards.   
         37   

Table of Contents  

   Altria Group, Inc. stock option activity was as follows for the year ended December 31, 2010:
      
    The aggregate intrinsic value shown in the table above was based on the December 31, 2010 closing price for Altria
Group, Inc. s common stock of $24.62. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $110 million, $87 million and $119 million, respectively.   
   Restricted and Deferred Stock       Altria Group, Inc. may grant
shares of restricted stock and deferred stock to eligible employees. These shares include nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents during the vesting period but may not be sold, assigned, pledged or otherwise encumbered. Such
shares are subject to forfeiture if certain employment conditions are not met. Restricted and deferred stock generally vests on the third anniversary of the grant date.      The fair value of the shares of restricted stock and deferred stock at the date of grant is amortized to expense ratably over the restriction period, which is generally three years. Altria Group, Inc. recorded
pre-tax compensation expense related to restricted stock and deferred stock granted to employees of its continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 of $44 million, $61 million and $38 million, respectively. The
deferred tax benefit recorded related to this compensation expense was $16 million, $24 million and $15 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The unamortized compensation expense related to Altria Group,
Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock was $74 million at December 31, 2010 and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2 years.      Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock activity was as follows for the year ended December 31, 2010:       
    The grant
price information for restricted stock and deferred stock awarded prior to January 30, 2008 reflects historical market prices which are not adjusted to reflect the PMI spin-off.   
  The weighted-average grant date fair value of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock granted during the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $53 million, $95 million and $56 million, respectively, or $19.90, $16.71 and $22.98 per restricted or deferred share, respectively. The total fair value of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred
stock vested during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $33 million, $46 million and $140 million, respectively.   

    Note 14.        
      Earnings per Share:   
  Basic and diluted earnings per share ( EPS ) from continuing and discontinued operations were calculated using the following:   
   
    For the 2010 and 2008 computations, there were no antidilutive
stock options. For the 2009 computation, 0.7 million stock options were excluded from the calculation of weighted-average shares for diluted EPS because their effects were antidilutive.   
         38   

Table of Contents  

Note 15.        
      Accumulated Other Comprehensive Earnings (Losses):
     The following table sets forth the changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses), net of income taxes, attributable to
Altria Group, Inc.:       

Note 16.        
      Income Taxes:   
      Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, and provision for income taxes
consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:       
    Altria Group, Inc. s U.S. subsidiaries join in the filing
of a U.S. federal consolidated income tax return. The U.S. federal statute of limitations remains open for the year 2004 and forward, with years 2004 to 2006 currently under examination by the IRS as part of a routine audit conducted in the ordinary
course of business. State jurisdictions have statutes of limitations generally ranging from 3 to 5 years. Certain of Altria Group, Inc. s state tax returns are currently under examination by various states as part of routine audits conducted in
the ordinary course of business.      A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was as follows:       
    Unrecognized tax benefits and Altria Group, Inc. s
consolidated liability for tax contingencies at December 31, 2010 and 2009, were as follows:       
 
         39   

Table of Contents  

   The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate at
December 31, 2010 was $360 million, along with $39 million affecting deferred taxes. However, the impact on net earnings from those unrecognized tax benefits that if recognized at December 31, 2010 would be $181 million, as a result of
receivables from Altria Group, Inc. s former subsidiaries Kraft and PMI of $101 million and $78 million, respectively, discussed below. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate at
December 31, 2009 was $548 million, along with $53 million affecting deferred taxes. However, the impact on net earnings from those unrecognized tax benefits that if recognized at December 31, 2009 would be $230 million, as a result of
receivables from Kraft and PMI of $198 million and $120 million, respectively, discussed below.      Under the Tax Sharing Agreements entered
into in connection with the spin-offs between Altria Group, Inc. and its former subsidiaries   Kraft and PMI, Kraft and PMI are responsible for their respective pre-spin-off tax obligations. Altria Group, Inc., however, remains severally liable
for Kraft s and PMI s pre-spin-off federal tax obligations pursuant to regulations governing federal consolidated income tax returns. As a result, at December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. continues to include the pre-spin-off federal
income tax reserves of Kraft and PMI of $101 million and $78 million, respectively, in its liability for uncertain tax positions, and also includes corresponding receivables from Kraft and PMI of $101 million and $78 million, respectively, in other
assets.      As discussed in Note 21.  Contingencies , Altria Group, Inc. and the IRS executed a closing agreement during the second
quarter of 2010 in connection with the IRS s examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated federal income tax returns for the years 2000-2003, which resolved various tax matters for Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including its
former subsidiaries - Kraft and PMI. As a result of the closing agreement, Altria Group, Inc. paid the IRS approximately $945 million of tax and associated interest during the third quarter of 2010 with respect to certain PMCC leveraged lease
transactions, referred to by the IRS as lease-in/lease-out ( LILO ) and sale-in/lease-out ( SILO ) transactions, entered into during the 1996-2003 years. Altria Group, Inc. intends to file a claim for refund of approximately $945
million in the first quarter of 2011. If the IRS disallows the claim, as anticipated, Altria Group, Inc. intends to commence litigation in federal court. Because Altria Group, Inc. intends to file a claim for refund, the payment of approximately
$945 million is included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheet of Altria Group, Inc. at December 31, 2010 and has not been included in the supplemental disclosure of cash paid for income taxes on the consolidated statement of cash
flows for the year ended December 31, 2010. Also, as a result of this closing agreement, in the second quarter of 2010, Altria Group, Inc. recorded (i) a $47 million income tax benefit primarily attributable to the reversal of tax reserves
and associated interest related to Altria Group, Inc. and its current subsidiaries; and (ii) an income tax benefit of $169 million attributable to the reversal of federal income tax reserves and associated interest related to the resolution of
certain Kraft and PMI tax matters.      In the third quarter of 2009, the IRS, Kraft, and Altria Group, Inc. (as former parent of, and as
agent for, Kraft) executed a closing agreement that resolved certain Kraft tax matters arising out of the 2000-2003 IRS audit of Altria Group, Inc. As a result of this closing agreement, in the third quarter of 2009, Altria Group, Inc. recorded an
income tax benefit of $88 million attributable to the reversal of federal income tax reserves and associated interest related to the resolution of certain Kraft tax matters.      The tax benefits of $169 million and $88 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were offset by a reduction to the corresponding receivables from Kraft and PMI, which were
recorded as reductions to operating income on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings. As a result, there was no impact on Altria Group, Inc. s net earnings associated with the resolution of the Kraft and PMI tax matters.
     Altria Group, Inc. recognizes accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of the tax provision. As of
December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. had $261 million of accrued interest and penalties, of which approximately $32 million and $19 million related to Kraft and PMI, respectively, for which Kraft and PMI are responsible under their respective
Tax Sharing Agreements. The receivables from Kraft and PMI are included in other assets. As of December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. had $327 million of accrued interest and penalties, of which approximately $79 million and $39 million related
to Kraft and PMI, respectively.      For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, Altria Group, Inc. recognized in its
consolidated statements of earnings $(69) million, $3 million and $41 million, respectively, of interest (income) expense associated with uncertain tax positions, which primarily relates to current year interest expense accruals offset by reversals
due to resolution of tax matters.      It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months certain examinations will be resolved, which
could result in a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits and interest of approximately $33 million.      The effective income tax rate on
pre-tax earnings from continuing operations differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate for the following reasons for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:   

40   

Table of Contents  

   The tax provision in 2010 includes tax benefits of $216 million from the reversal of tax reserves and
associated interest resulting from the execution of the 2010 closing agreement with the IRS discussed above. The tax provision in 2010 also includes tax benefits of $64 million from the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest following the
resolution of several state audits and the expiration of statutes of limitations. The tax provision in 2009 includes tax benefits of $88 million from the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest resulting from the execution of the 2009
closing agreement with the IRS discussed above. The tax provision in 2009 also includes a benefit of $53 million from the utilization of net operating losses in the third quarter. The tax provision in 2008 includes net tax benefits of $58 million
primarily from the reversal of tax accruals no longer required in the fourth quarter.      The tax effects of temporary differences that gave
rise to consumer products deferred income tax assets and liabilities consisted of the following at December 31, 2010 and 2009:       
    Financial services deferred income tax liabilities are
primarily attributable to temporary differences relating to net investments in finance leases.      At December 31, 2010, Altria Group,
Inc. had estimated state tax net operating losses of $1,212 million that, if unutilized, will expire in 2011 through 2030 and state tax credit carryforwards of $82 million which, if unutilized, will expire in 2011 through 2017. A valuation allowance
is recorded against certain state net operating losses and state tax credit carryforwards due to uncertainty regarding their utilization.   

      Note 17.        
      Segment Reporting:   
  The products of Altria Group, Inc. s consumer products subsidiaries include cigarettes manufactured and sold by PM USA, smokeless products manufactured and
sold by or on behalf of USSTC and PM USA, machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco manufactured and sold by Middleton, and wine produced and distributed by Ste. Michelle. Another subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc., PMCC, maintains a portfolio of
leveraged and direct finance leases. The products and services of these subsidiaries constitute Altria Group, Inc. s reportable segments of cigarettes, smokeless products, cigars, wine and financial services.   
  Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker reviews operating companies income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources.
Operating companies income for the segments excludes general corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles. Interest and other debt expense, net (consumer products), and provision for income taxes are centrally managed at the corporate level
and, accordingly, such items are not presented by segment since they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability reviewed by Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker. Information about total assets by segment is not
disclosed because such information is not reported to or used by Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker. Segment goodwill and other intangible assets, net, are disclosed in Note 5.  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net. 
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.    
         41   

Table of Contents  

   Segment data were as follows:   
   
    PM USA, USSTC and Middleton s largest customer, McLane
Company, Inc., accounted for approximately 27%, 26% and 27% of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These net revenues were reported in the cigarettes, smokeless
products and cigars segments. Sales to three distributors accounted for approximately 65% and 64% of net revenues for the wine segment for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
  Items affecting the comparability of net revenues and operating companies income for the segments were as follows:   
          
    UST Acquisition:  In January 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST, the results of which are reflected in the smokeless products and wine segments. See Note 3.  UST Acquisition .   
          
    Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs:  See Note 6.  Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs , for a breakdown of these costs by segment.   
          
    Sales to PMI:  Subsequent to the PMI spin-off, PM USA recorded net revenues of $298 million, from contract volume manufactured for PMI under an agreement that terminated in the fourth quarter of 2008. For periods prior to the
PMI spin-off, PM USA did not record contract volume manufactured for PMI in net revenues, but recorded the related profit, which was immaterial, for the year ended December 31, 2008, in marketing, administration and research costs on Altria
Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings. These amounts are reflected in the cigarettes segment.                  PMCC Allowance for Losses:  During 2009, PMCC increased its allowance
for losses by $15 million based on management s assessment of its portfolio including its exposure to GM. PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $100 million during 2008, primarily as a result of credit rating downgrades of certain lessees
and financial market conditions. See Note 9.  Finance Assets, net.        

Note 18.        
      Benefit Plans:   
  Subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. sponsor noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all employees of Altria Group, Inc. In certain
subsidiaries, employees hired on or after a date specific to their employee group instead are eligible to participate in an enhanced defined contribution plan. This transition for new hires occurred from October 1, 2006 to January 1, 2008.
In addition, effective January 1, 2010, certain employees of UST and Middleton who were participants in noncontributory defined benefit pension plans ceased to earn additional benefit service under those plans and became eligible to participate
in an enhanced defined contribution plan. Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries also provide health care and other benefits to the majority of retired employees.   
         42   

Table of Contents  

   The plan assets and benefit obligations of Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans and the benefit
obligations of Altria Group, Inc. s postretirement plans are measured at December 31 of each year.       Pension Plans    
   Obligations and Funded Status       The projected benefit
obligations, plan assets and funded status of Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans at December 31, 2010 and 2009, were as follows:       
    The net pension liability recognized in Altria Group,
Inc. s consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, was as follows:       
    The accumulated benefit obligation, which represents benefits
earned to date, for the pension plans was $6.1 billion and $5.7 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.      At
December 31, 2010 and 2009, the accumulated benefit obligations were in excess of plan assets for all pension plans.      The following
assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc. s benefit obligations under the plans at December 31:       
    The discount rates for Altria Group, Inc. s plans were
developed from a model portfolio of high-quality corporate bonds with durations that match the expected future cash flows of the benefit obligations.   
   Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost       Net periodic
pension cost consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:       
    During 2009 and 2008, termination, settlement and curtailment
shown in the table above primarily reflect termination benefits related to Altria Group, Inc. s restructuring programs. In 2009 these costs were partially offset by curtailment gains related to the restructuring of UST s operations
subsequent to the acquisition. For more information on Altria Group, Inc. s restructuring programs, see Note 6.  Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs .   
  The amounts included in termination, settlement and curtailment in the table above for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were
comprised of the following changes:       
    For the pension plans, the estimated net loss and prior service
cost that are expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive losses into net periodic benefit cost during 2011 are $172 million and $14 million, respectively.      The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc. s net pension cost for the years ended December 31:   
   
    Altria Group, Inc. sponsors deferred profit-sharing plans
covering certain salaried, non-union and union employees. Contributions and costs are determined generally as a percentage of pre-tax earnings, as defined by the plans. Amounts charged to expense for these defined contribution plans totaled $108
million, $106 million and $128 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
         43   

Table of Contents  

    Plan Assets    
  Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans investment strategy is based on an expectation that equity securities will outperform debt securities over the long term.
Altria Group, Inc. implements the investment strategy in a prudent and risk-controlled manner, consistent with the fiduciary requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, by investing retirement plan assets in a
well-diversified mix of equities, fixed income and other securities that reflects the impact of the demographic mix of plan participants on the benefit obligation using a target asset allocation between equity securities and fixed income investments
of 55%/45%. Accordingly, the composition of Altria Group, Inc. s plan assets at December 31, 2010 was broadly characterized as an allocation between equity securities (58%), corporate bonds (20%), U.S. Treasury and Foreign Government
securities (16%) and all other types of investments (6%). Virtually all pension assets can be used to make monthly benefit payments.      Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans investment strategy is accomplished by investing in U.S. and international equity commingled funds which are intended to mirror indices such as the Standard  
Poor s 500 Index, Russell Small Cap Completeness Index, Morgan Stanley Capital International ( MSCI ) Europe, Australasia, Far East ( EAFE ) Index, and MSCI Emerging Markets Index. Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans
also invest in actively managed international equity securities of large, mid, and small cap companies located in the developed markets of Europe, Australasia, and the Far East, and actively managed long duration fixed income securities that
primarily include investment grade corporate bonds of companies from diversified industries, U.S. Treasuries and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities. The below investment grade securities represent 11% of the fixed income holdings or 5% of total
plan assets at December 31, 2010. The allocation to emerging markets represents 4% of the equity holdings or 2% of total plan assets at December 31, 2010. The allocation to real estate and private equity investments is immaterial.
     Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans risk management practices include ongoing monitoring of the asset allocation, investment
performance, investment managers  compliance with their investment guidelines, periodic rebalancing between equity and debt asset classes and annual actuarial re-measurement of plan liabilities.   
  Altria Group, Inc. s expected rate of return on pension plan assets is determined by the plan assets  historical long-term investment
performance, current asset allocation and estimates of future long-term returns by asset class. The forward-looking estimates are consistent with the overall long-term averages exhibited by returns on equity and fixed income securities.
     The fair values of Altria Group, Inc. s pension plan assets by asset category are as follows:   
   Investments at Fair Value as of December 31, 2010        
 
         44   

Table of Contents  

    Investments at Fair Value as of December 31, 2009    
   
    Level 3 holdings are immaterial to total plan assets at
December 31, 2010 and 2009.      For a description of the fair value hierarchy and the three levels of inputs used to measure fair
value, see Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies .      Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for
investments measured at fair value, including the general classification of such investments pursuant to the fair value hierarchy.                  Common/Collective Trusts:  Common/collective trusts consist of pools
of investments used by institutional investors to obtain exposure to equity and fixed income markets by investing in equity index funds which are intended to mirror indices such as Standard   Poor s 500 Index, Russell Small Cap
Completeness Index, State Street Global Advisor s Fundamental Index, MSCI EAFE Index, MSCI Emerging Markets Index, and an actively managed long duration fixed income fund. They are valued on the basis of the relative interest of each
participating investor in the fair value of the underlying assets of each of the respective common/collective trusts. The underlying assets are valued based on the net asset value ( NAV ) as provided by the investment account manager and
are classified in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. These common/collective trusts have defined redemption terms which vary from two day prior notice to semi-monthly openings for redemption. There are no other restrictions on redemption at
December 31, 2010.                  U.S. and Foreign Government Securities:  U.S. and Foreign Government securities consist of investments in Treasury Nominal Bonds and Inflation Protected Securities, investment
grade municipal securities and unrated or non-investment grade municipal securities. Government securities, which are traded in a non-active over-the-counter market, are valued at a price which is based on a broker quote, and are classified in level
2 of the fair value hierarchy.                  Corporate Debt Instruments:  Corporate debt instruments are valued at a price which is based on a compilation of primarily observable market information or a broker quote in a
non-active over-the-counter market, and are classified in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.                  Common Stocks:  Common stocks are valued based on the price of the security as listed on an open active exchange on last
trade date, and are classified in level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.                  Registered Investment Companies:  Investments in mutual funds sponsored by a registered investment company are valued
based on exchange listed prices and are classified in level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Registered investment company funds which are designed specifically to meet Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans investment strategies but are not traded
on an active market are valued based on the NAV of the underlying securities as provided by the investment account manager on the last business day of the period and are classified in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The registered investment
company funds measured at NAV have daily liquidity and are not subject to any redemption restrictions at December 31, 2010.                  U.S. and Foreign Cash   Cash Equivalents:  Cash and cash
equivalents are valued at cost that approximates fair value, and are classified in level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Cash collateral for forward contracts on U.S. Treasury notes, which approximates fair value, is classified in level 2 of the fair
value hierarchy.                  Asset Backed Securities:  Asset backed securities are fixed income securities such as mortgage backed securities and auto loans that are collateralized by pools of underlying
assets that are unable to be sold individually. They are valued at a price which is based on a compilation of primarily      observable market information or
a broker quote in a non-active, over-the-counter market, and are classified in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.       Cash Flows    
  Altria Group, Inc. makes contributions to the extent that they are tax deductible, and to pay benefits that relate to plans for salaried employees that cannot be
funded under IRS regulations. On January 7, 2011, Altria Group, Inc. made a voluntary $200 million contribution to its pension plans. Currently, Altria Group, Inc. anticipates making additional employer
  
         45   

Table of Contents  

contributions of approximately $30 million to $50 million in 2011 to its pension plans, based on current tax law. However, these estimates are subject to change as a result of changes in tax and
other benefit laws, as well as asset performance significantly above or below the assumed long-term rate of return on pension assets, or changes in interest rates.      The estimated future benefit payments from the Altria Group, Inc. pension plans at December 31, 2010, were as follows:       
     Postretirement Benefit Plans    
  Net postretirement health care costs consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:   
   
    During 2009 and 2008, termination and curtailment shown in the
table above primarily reflects termination benefits and curtailment losses related to Altria Group, Inc. s restructuring programs, including the restructuring of UST s operations subsequent to the acquisition. For further information on
Altria Group, Inc. s restructuring programs, see Note 6.  Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs .      The
amounts included in termination and curtailment shown in the table above for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were comprised of the following changes:       
    For the postretirement benefit plans, the estimated net loss
and prior service credit that are expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive losses into net postretirement health care costs during 2011 are $37 million and $(22) million, respectively.   
  The following assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc. s net postretirement cost for the years ended December 31:   
   
    Altria Group, Inc. s postretirement health care plans are
not funded. The changes in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2010 and 2009, were as follows:       
    The current portion of Altria Group, Inc. s accrued
postretirement health care costs of $146 million and $138 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, is included in other accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.              The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( PPACA ), as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, was signed into law in
March 2010. The PPACA mandates health care reforms with staggered effective dates from 2010 to 2018, including the imposition of an excise tax on high cost health care plans effective 2018. The additional accumulated postretirement liability
resulting from the PPACA, which is not material to Altria Group, Inc., has been included in Altria Group, Inc. s accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2010. Given the complexity of the PPACA and the extended time
period during which implementation is expected to occur, further adjustments to Altria Group, Inc. s accumulated postretirement benefit obligation may be necessary in the future.   
  The following assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc. s postretirement benefit obligations at December 31:   

46   

Table of Contents  

   Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health
care plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects as of December 31, 2010:       

One-Percentage-Point   
   Increase    
      
     One-Percentage-Point   
   Decrease     
 
    Effect on total of service and interest cost   
      
   12.3%   
      
   (9.9)%    
 
    Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   
      
   10.1     
      
   (8.2)      

Altria Group, Inc. s estimated future benefit payments for
its postretirement health care plans at December 31, 2010, were as follows:       
     Postemployment Benefit Plans    
  Altria Group, Inc. sponsors postemployment benefit plans covering substantially all salaried and certain hourly employees. The cost of these plans is charged to
expense over the working life of the covered employees. Net postemployment costs consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:       
     Other  postemployment cost shown in the table above
for 2009 and 2008 primarily reflects incremental severance costs related to Altria Group, Inc. s restructuring programs (see Note 6.  Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs).    
  For the postemployment benefit plans, the estimated net loss that is expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive losses into net
postemployment costs during 2011 is approximately $13 million.      Altria Group, Inc. s postemployment benefit plans are not funded.
The changes in the benefit obligations of the plans at December 31, 2010 and 2009, were as follows:       
    The accrued postemployment costs were determined using a
weighted-average discount rate of 3.8% and 5.3% in 2010 and 2009, respectively, an assumed weighted-average ultimate annual turnover rate of 0.5% in 2010 and 2009, assumed compensation cost increases of 4.0% in 2010 and 4.5% in 2009, respectively,
and assumed benefits as defined in the respective plans. Postemployment costs arising from actions that offer employees benefits in excess of those specified in the respective plans are charged to expense when incurred.   
          
    Comprehensive Earnings/Losses:  The amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive losses at December 31, 2010 consisted of the following:   
   
    The amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive losses
at December 31, 2009 consisted of the following:       
 
         47   

Table of Contents  

   The movements in other comprehensive earnings/losses during the year ended December 31, 2010 were
as follows:       
    The movements in other comprehensive earnings/losses during the
year ended December 31, 2009 were as follows:       
    The movements in other comprehensive earnings/losses during the
year ended December 31, 2008 were as follows:       

Note 19.        
      Additional Information:   
  The amounts shown below are for continuing operations.       
 
         48   

Table of Contents  

   Minimum rental commitments and sublease income under non-cancelable operating leases, including
amounts associated with closed facilities primarily from the integration of UST (see Note 6.  Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs ), in effect at December 31, 2010, were as follows:   

Note 20.        
      Financial Instruments:   
             
     Derivative Financial Instruments:  Derivative financial instruments are used periodically by Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries principally to reduce exposures to market risks resulting from fluctuations in
interest rates and foreign exchange rates by creating offsetting exposures. Altria Group, Inc. is not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Financial instruments
qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. Altria Group, Inc. formally documents the nature and
relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Additionally, for hedges of forecasted
transactions, the significant characteristics and expected terms of the forecasted transaction must be specifically identified, and it must be probable that each forecasted transaction will occur. If it were deemed probable that the forecasted
transaction will not occur, the gain or loss would be recognized in earnings currently. Altria Group, Inc. had no derivative activity during the year ended December 31, 2010. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008,
ineffectiveness related to fair value hedges and cash flow hedges was not material.      Derivative gains or losses reported in accumulated
other comprehensive earnings (losses) are a result of qualifying hedging activity. Transfers of gains or losses from accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) to earnings are offset by the corresponding gains or losses on the underlying
hedged item. Hedging activity affected accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses), net of income taxes, during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, as follows:   
   
    During 2009, subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. had forward
foreign exchange contracts in connection with anticipated oak barrel purchases for Ste. Michelle s wine operations. These contracts, which were not material, expired in 2009 and were designated as effective cash flow hedges. During the second
quarter of 2009, UST s interest rate swap contract, which was designated as an effective cash flow hedge, expired in conjunction with the maturity of UST s $40 million senior notes. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, Altria Group, Inc.
had no derivative financial instruments.      During the first quarter of 2008, Altria Group, Inc. purchased forward foreign exchange
contracts to mitigate its exposure to changes in exchange rates from its euro-denominated debt. While these forward exchange contracts were effective as economic hedges, they did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment and, therefore, $21 million
of gains for the year ended December 31, 2008 relating to these contracts were reported in interest and other debt expense, net, in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statement of earnings. These contracts and the related debt matured in
the second quarter of 2008.      In addition, prior to the PMI spin-off in March 2008, Altria Group, Inc. used foreign currency swaps to
mitigate its exposure to changes in exchange rates related to foreign currency denominated debt. These swaps converted fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity,
and were accounted for as cash flow hedges. Since the PMI spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. has had no such swap agreements remaining.   
  Prior to the PMI spin-off in March 2008, Altria Group, Inc. also designated certain foreign currency denominated debt and forwards as net investment
hedges of foreign operations. During the year ended December 31, 2008, these hedges of net investments resulted in losses, net of income taxes, of $85 million and were reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses)
within currency translation adjustments. The accumulated losses recorded as net investment hedges of foreign operations were recognized and recorded in connection with the PMI spin-off. Since the PMI spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. has had no such net
investment hedges remaining.   
         49   

Table of Contents  

               Credit exposure and credit risk:  Altria Group, Inc. is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties. Altria Group, Inc. does not anticipate
nonperformance within its consumer products businesses. However, see Note 9.  Finance Assets, net  regarding PMCC s assessment of credit loss for its leasing portfolio.   

      Note 21.        
      Contingencies:   
  Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc. and its
subsidiaries, including PM USA and UST and its subsidiaries, as well as their respective indemnitees. Various types of claims are raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband shipments,
patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of distributors.      Litigation is subject to uncertainty and it
is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending or future cases. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related or other litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation. Damages claimed in some
tobacco-related and other litigation are or can be significant and, in certain cases, range in the billions of dollars. The variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims,
demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome. In certain cases, plaintiffs claim that defendants  liability is joint and several. In such cases, Altria Group, Inc.
or its subsidiaries may face the risk that one or more co-defendants decline or otherwise fail to participate in the bonding required for an appeal or to pay their proportionate or jury-allocated share of a judgment. As a result, Altria Group,
Inc. or its subsidiaries under certain circumstances may have to pay more than their proportionate share of any bonding- or judgment-related amounts.     Although PM USA has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed,
there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases. This risk has been substantially reduced given that 43 states now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all. As discussed below, however, tobacco litigation
plaintiffs have challenged the constitutionality of Florida s bond cap statute in several cases and plaintiffs may challenge other state bond cap statutes. Although we cannot predict the outcome of such challenges, it is possible that the
consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome of one or more
such challenges.      Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending
litigation when they determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. At the present time, while it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur, except as discussed
elsewhere in this Note 21.  Contingencies : (i) management has concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or
range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for unfavorable outcomes, if any.
Legal defense costs are expensed as incurred.      Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have achieved substantial success in managing
litigation. Nevertheless, litigation is subject to uncertainty and significant challenges remain. It is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries,
could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. Altria Group, Inc. and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so
advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts. Each of the companies has defended, and will continue to defend, vigorously
against litigation challenges. However, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of Altria Group, Inc. to do so.   
   Overview of Altria Group, Inc. and/or PM USA Tobacco-Related Litigation                       Types and Number
of Cases:  Claims related to tobacco products generally fall within the following categories: (i) smoking and health cases alleging personal injury brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs; (ii) smoking and health cases primarily
alleging personal injury or seeking court-supervised programs for ongoing medical monitoring and purporting to be brought on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs, including cases in which the aggregated claims of a number of individual
plaintiffs are to be tried in a single proceeding; (iii) health care cost recovery cases brought by governmental (both domestic and foreign) and non-governmental plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for health care expenditures allegedly caused by
cigarette smoking and/or disgorgement of profits; (iv) class action suits alleging that the uses of the terms  Lights  and  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud, or violations of
the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ( RICO  and (v) other tobacco-related litigation described below. Plaintiffs  theories of recovery and the defenses raised in pending smoking and health, health care cost
recovery and  Lights/Ultra Lights  cases are discussed below.   
         50   

Table of Contents  

   The table below lists the number of certain tobacco-related cases pending in the United States against
PM USA and, in some instances, Altria Group, Inc. as of December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008.       
    (1) Does not include 2,590 cases brought by flight attendants seeking
compensatory damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to environmental tobacco smoke ( ETS ). The flight attendants allege that they are members of an ETS smoking and health class action, which was settled in 1997
( Broin ). The terms of the court-approved settlement in that case allow class members to file individual lawsuits seeking compensatory damages, but prohibit them from seeking punitive damages. Also, does not include approximately 7,228
individual smoking and health cases (3,288 state court cases and 3,940 federal court cases) brought by or on behalf of approximately 8,900 plaintiffs in Florida (4,961 state court plaintiffs and 3,939 federal court plaintiffs) following the
decertification of the  Engle  case discussed below. It is possible that some of these cases are duplicates and that additional cases have been filed but not yet recorded on the courts  dockets. Certain  Broin  plaintiffs have filed a
motion seeking approximately $50 million in sanctions for alleged interference by R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company ( R.J. Reynolds ) and PM USA with Lorillard, Inc. s acceptance of offers of settlement in the  Broin 
progeny cases.      (2) Includes as one case the 650 civil actions (of which 370 are actions against PM USA) that are proposed to be tried in a single
proceeding in West Virginia ( In re: Tobacco Litigation ). Middleton and USSTC were named as defendants in this action but they, along with other non-cigarette manufacturers, have been severed from this case. The West Virginia Supreme Court of
Appeals has ruled that the United States Constitution does not preclude a trial in two phases in this case. Under the current trial plan, issues related to defendants  conduct and plaintiffs  entitlement to punitive damages would be
determined in the first phase. The second phase would consist of individual trials to determine liability, if any, as well as compensatory and punitive damages, if any. The case is currently scheduled for trial on October 17, 2011.   

International Tobacco-Related Cases:  As of December 31, 2010, PM USA is a named defendant in Israel in one  Lights  class action and one health care cost recovery action. PM USA is a named defendant in three
health care cost recovery actions in Canada, two of which also name Altria Group, Inc. as a defendant. PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. are also named defendants in six smoking and health class actions filed in various Canadian provinces. See
 Guarantees  for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products.                  Pending and Upcoming
Tobacco-Related Trials:  As of December 31, 2010, 65  Engle  progeny cases and 11 individual smoking and health cases against PM USA are set for trial in 2011. Cases against other companies in the tobacco industry are also scheduled for
trial in 2011. Trial dates are subject to change.   
          
    Trial Results:  Since January 1999, verdicts have been returned in 64 smoking and health,  Lights/Ultra Lights  and health care cost recovery cases in which PM USA was a defendant. Verdicts in favor of PM USA and
other defendants were returned in 38 of the 64 cases. These 38 cases were tried in California (5), Florida (18), Mississippi (1), Missouri (2), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (1), New York (3), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania (1), Rhode Island (1), Tennessee
(2), and West Virginia (1). A motion for a new trial was granted in one of the cases in Florida.      Of the 26 cases in which verdicts were
returned in favor of plaintiffs, eleven have reached final resolution and one case ( Williams    see below) has reached partial resolution. A verdict against defendants in one health care cost recovery case ( Blue Cross/Blue Shield )
has been reversed and all claims were dismissed with prejudice. In addition, a verdict against defendants in a purported  Lights  class action in Illinois ( Price ) was reversed and the case was dismissed with prejudice in December
2006. In December 2008, the plaintiff in  Price  filed a motion with the state trial court to vacate the judgment dismissing this case in light of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good  (see below for a discussion of
developments in  Good  and  Price ). After exhausting all appeals, PM USA has paid judgments in these cases totaling $116.4 million and interest totaling $70.6 million.   
         51   

Table of Contents  

   The chart below lists the verdicts and post-trial developments in the cases that were pending during
2010 in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs.       

Date   
     
     Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff    
     
   Type of Case   
     
   Verdict   
     
   Post-Trial Developments    
 
    August 2010   
     
  Florida/ Piendle   
     
   Engle  progeny  
     
  In August 2010, a Palm Beach County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds. The jury awarded $4 million in compensatory damages
and allocated 27.5% of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately $1.1 million). The jury also awarded $90,000 in punitive damages against PM USA.  
     
  In September 2010, the trial court entered final judgment. The parties  post-trial motions are still pending.   

July 2010   
     
  Florida/ Tate   
     
   Engle  progeny  
     
  In July 2010, a Broward County jury in the  Tate  trial returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and against PM USA. The jury awarded $8 million in compensatory damages and allocated
64% of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately $5.1 million). The jury also awarded approximately $16.3 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
     
  In August 2010, the trial court entered final judgment, and PM USA filed its notice of appeal and posted a $5 million appeal bond.   

April 2010   
     
  Florida/ Putney   
     
   Engle  progeny  
     
  In April 2010, a Broward County jury in the  Putney  trial returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Liggett Group. The jury awarded
approximately $15.1 million in compensatory damages and allocated 15% of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately $2.3 million). The jury also awarded $2.5 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
     
  In August 2010, the trial court entered final judgment. PM USA filed its notice of appeal and posted a $1.6 million appeal bond.   

March 2010   
     
  Florida/ R. Cohen   
     
   Engle  progeny  
     
  In March 2010, a Broward County jury in the  R. Cohen  trial returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds. The jury awarded $10 million in
compensatory damages and allocated 33   1   /  3  % of the fault to PM
USA (an amount of approximately $3.3 million). The jury also awarded a total of $20 million in punitive damages, assessing separate $10 million awards against both defendants.   
     
  In July 2010, the trial court entered final judgment and, in August 2010, PM USA filed its notice of appeal. In October 2010, PM USA posted a $2.5 million appeal bond.   

March 2010   
     
  Florida/ Douglas   
     
   Engle  progeny  
     
  In March 2010, the jury in the  Douglas  trial (conducted in Hillsborough County) returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Liggett Group. The
jury awarded $5 million in compensatory damages. Punitive damages were dismissed prior to trial. The jury allocated 18% of the fault to PM USA, resulting in an award of $900,000.  
     
  In June 2010, PM USA filed its notice of appeal and posted a $900,000 appeal bond. In September 2010, the plaintiff filed with the trial court a challenge to the constitutionality of the
Florida bond cap statute.   

52   

Table of Contents  

Date   
     
     Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff    
     
   Type of Case   
     
   Verdict   
     
   Post-Trial Developments    

November 2009   
     
  Florida/ Naugle   
     
   Engle  progeny  
     
  In November 2009, a Broward County jury in the  Naugle  trial returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and against PM USA. The jury awarded approximately $56.6 million in
compensatory damages and $244 million in punitive damages. The jury allocated 90% of the fault to PM USA.  
     
  In March 2010, the trial court entered final judgment reflecting a reduced award of approximately $13 million in compensatory damages and $26 million in punitive
damages. In April 2010, PM USA filed its notice of appeal and posted a $5 million appeal bond. In August 2010, upon the motion of PM USA, the trial court entered an amended final judgment of approximately $12.3 million in compensatory damages and
approximately $24.5 million in punitive damages to correct a clerical error. The case remains on appeal.   

August 2009   
     
  Florida/ F. Campbell   
     
   Engle  progeny  
     
  In August 2009, the jury in the  F. Campbell  trial (conducted in Escambia County) returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and against R.J. Reynolds, PM USA and Liggett Group.
The jury awarded $7.8 million in compensatory damages. There was no punitive damages award. In September 2009, the trial court entered final judgment and awarded the plaintiff $156,000 in damages against PM USA due to the jury allocating only 2% of
the fault to PM USA.  
     
  In January 2010, defendants filed their notice of appeal, and PM USA posted a $156,000 appeal bond. The Florida First District Court of Appeals heard argument on January 5,
2011.   

August 2009   
     
  Florida/ Barbanell   
     
   Engle  progeny  
     
  In August 2009, a Broward County jury in the  Barbanell  trial returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff, awarding $5.3 million in compensatory damages. The judge had previously
dismissed the punitive damages claim. In September 2009, the trial court entered final judgment and awarded plaintiff $1.95 million in actual damages. The judgment reduced the jury s $5.3 million award of compensatory damages due to the jury
allocating 36.5% of the fault to PM USA.  
     
  A notice of appeal was filed by PM USA in September 2009, and PM USA posted a $1.95 million appeal bond.   

February 2009   
     
  Florida/ Hess   
     
   Engle  progeny  
     
  In February 2009, a Broward County jury in the  Hess  trial found in favor of plaintiffs and against PM USA. The jury awarded $3 million in compensatory damages and $5 million in
punitive damages. In June 2009, the trial court entered final judgment and awarded plaintiffs $1,260,000 in actual damages and $5 million in punitive damages. The judgment reduced the jury s $3 million award of compensatory damages due to
the jury allocating 42% of the fault to PM USA.  
     
  PM USA noticed an appeal to the Fourth District Court of Appeal in July 2009. In April 2010, the trial court signed an order releasing a previously posted bond pursuant to an agreement
between the parties. The case remains on appeal.   

53   

Table of Contents  

Date   
     
     Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff    
     
   Type of Case   
     
   Verdict   
     
   Post-Trial Developments    

May 2007   
     
  California/ Whiteley   
     
  Individual Smoking and Health  
     
  Approximately $2.5 million in compensatory damages against PM USA and the other defendant in the case, as well as $250,000 in punitive damages against the other defendant in the
case.  
     
  In October 2007, in a limited retrial on the issue of punitive damages, the jury found that plaintiffs are not entitled to punitive damages against PM USA. In March 2008, PM USA noticed an
appeal to the California Court of Appeal, First Appellate District, which affirmed the judgment in October 2009. In November 2009, PM USA and the other defendant in the case filed a petition for review with the California Supreme Court. In
January 2010, the California Supreme Court denied defendants  petition for review. PM USA recorded a provision for compensatory damages of $1.26 million plus costs and interest in the first quarter of 2010, and paid its share of the
judgment in February 2010, concluding this litigation.   

August 2006   
     
    District of Columbia/ United   States of         America      
     
  Health Care Cost Recovery  
     
  Finding that defendants, including Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA, violated the civil provisions of RICO. No monetary damages were assessed, but the court made specific findings and issued
injunctions. See  Federal Government s Lawsuit  below.  
     
  See  Federal   Government s Lawsuit  below.   

May 2004   
     
  Louisiana/ Scott   
     
    Smoking and     Health
Class Action   
     
  Approximately $590 million against all defendants, including PM USA, jointly and severally, to fund a 10-year smoking cessation program.  
     
  See  Scott  Class Action below.   

October 2002   
     
  California/ Bullock   
     
  Individual Smoking and Health  
     
  $850,000 in compensatory damages and $28 billion in punitive damages against PM USA.  
     
  See discussion  (1)  below.   

June 2002   
     
  Florida/ Lukacs   
     
   Engle  progeny  
     
  $37.5 million in compensatory damages against all defendants, including PM USA.  
     
  In March 2003, the trial court reduced the damages award to $24.8 million. Final judgment was entered in November 2008, awarding plaintiffs actual damages of $24.8 million, plus interest from
the date of the verdict. Defendants filed a notice of appeal in December 2008. In March 2010, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal affirmed  per curiam  the trial court decision without issuing an opinion. Subsequent review by the Florida
Supreme Court of a  per curiam  affirmance without opinion is generally prohibited. In May 2010, the court of appeal denied the defendants  petition for re-hearing. In June 2010, PM USA paid its share of the judgment which, with interest,
amounted to approximately $15.1 million.   

54   

Table of Contents  

Date   
     
     Location of Court/ Name       of Plaintiff    
     
   Type of Case   
     
   Verdict   
     
   Post-Trial Developments    

March 2002   
     
  Oregon/ Schwarz   
     
  Individual Smoking and Health  
     
  $168,500 in compensatory damages and $150 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
     
  In May 2002, the trial court reduced the punitive damages award to $100 million. In October 2002, PM USA posted an appeal bond of approximately $58.3 million. In May 2006, the Oregon Court of
Appeals affirmed the compensatory damages verdict, reversed the award of punitive damages and remanded the case to the trial court for a second trial to determine the amount of punitive damages, if any. In June 2006, plaintiff petitioned the Oregon
Supreme Court to review the portion of the court of appeals  decision reversing and remanding the case for a new trial on punitive damages. In June 2010, the Oregon Supreme Court affirmed the court of appeals  decision and remanded the
case to the trial court for a new trial limited to the question of punitive damages. In July 2010, plaintiff filed a petition for rehearing with the Oregon Supreme Court. On December 30, 2010, the Oregon Supreme Court reaffirmed its earlier
ruling, clarified that the only issue for retrial is the amount of punitive damages and awarded PM USA approximately $500,000 in costs. On January 7, 2011, the trial court issued an order releasing PM USA s appeal bond.   

March 1999   
     
  Oregon/ Williams   
     
  Individual Smoking and Health  
     
  $800,000 in compensatory damages (capped statutorily at $500,000), $21,500 in medical expenses and $79.5 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
     
  See discussion  (2)  below.   

(1)  Bullock : In December 2002, the trial court reduced the punitive
damages award to $28 million. In April 2006, the California Court of Appeal affirmed the $28 million punitive damages award. In August 2006, the California Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  petition to overturn the trial court s reduction
of the punitive damages award and granted PM USA s petition for review challenging the punitive damages award. The court granted review of the case on a  grant and hold  basis under which further action by the court was deferred
pending the United States Supreme Court s 2007 decision on punitive damages in the  Williams  case described below. In February 2007, the United States Supreme Court vacated the punitive damages judgment in  Williams  and remanded the
case to the Oregon Supreme Court for proceedings consistent with its decision. In May 2007, the California Supreme Court transferred the case to the Second District of the California Court of Appeal with directions that the court vacate its 2006
decision and reconsider the case in light of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Williams . In January 2008, the California Court of Appeal reversed the judgment with respect to the $28 million punitive damages award, affirmed
the judgment in all other respects, and remanded the case to the trial court to conduct a new trial on the amount of punitive damages. In March 2008, plaintiffs and PM USA appealed to the California Supreme Court. In April 2008, the California
Supreme Court denied both petitions for review. In July 2008, $43.3 million of escrow funds were returned to PM USA. The case was remanded to the superior court for a new trial on the amount of punitive damages, if any. In August 2009, the jury
returned a verdict, and in December 2009, the superior court entered a judgment, awarding plaintiff $13.8 million in punitive damages, plus costs. In December 2009, PM USA filed a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict that seeks
a reduction of the punitive damages award, which motion was denied in January 2010. PM USA noticed an appeal in February 2010 and posted an appeal bond of approximately $14.7 million. As of December 31, 2010, PM USA has recorded a
provision of approximately $1.7 million for compensatory damages, costs and interest.      (2)  Williams : The trial court reduced the punitive damages
award to approximately $32 million, and PM USA and plaintiff appealed. In June 2002, the Oregon Court of Appeals reinstated the $79.5 million punitive damages award. Following the Oregon Supreme Court s refusal to hear PM USA s appeal, PM
USA recorded a provision of $32 million and petitioned the United States Supreme Court for further review (PM USA later recorded additional provisions of approximately $29 million related primarily to accrued interest). In October 2003, the United
States Supreme Court set aside the Oregon appellate court s ruling and directed the Oregon court to reconsider the case in light of the 2003  State Farm  decision by the United States Supreme Court, which limited punitive damages. In June
2004, the Oregon Court of Appeals reinstated the $79.5 million punitive damages award. In February 2006, the Oregon Supreme Court affirmed the Court of Appeals  decision. The United States Supreme Court granted PM USA s petition for
 writ of certiorari  in May 2006. In February 2007, the United States Supreme Court vacated the $79.5 million punitive damages award, holding that the United States Constitution prohibits basing punitive damages awards on harm to
non-parties. The Court also found that states must assure that appropriate procedures are in place so that juries are provided with proper legal guidance as to the constitutional limitations on awards of punitive damages. Accordingly, the Court
remanded the case to the Oregon Supreme Court for further proceedings consistent with this decision. In January 2008, the Oregon Supreme Court affirmed the Oregon Court of Appeals  June 2004 decision, which in turn, upheld the jury s
compensatory damages award and reinstated the jury s award of $79.5 million in punitive damages. In March 2008, PM USA filed a petition for  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court, which was granted in June 2008. In March
2009, the United States Supreme Court dismissed the  writ of certiorari  as being improvidently granted. Subsequent to the United States Supreme Court s dismissal, PM USA paid $61.1 million to the plaintiffs, representing the compensatory
damages award, forty percent of the punitive damages award and accrued interest. Oregon state law requires that sixty percent of any punitive damages award be paid to the state. However, PM USA believes that, as a result of the Master Settlement
Agreement ( MSA ), it is not liable for the sixty percent that would be paid to the state. Oregon and PM USA are parties to a proceeding in Oregon state court that seeks a determination of PM USA s liability for that sixty percent. If
PM USA prevails, its obligation to pay punitive damages will be limited to the forty percent previously paid to the plaintiff. The court has consolidated that MSA proceeding with  Williams , where plaintiff seeks to challenge the
constitutionality of the Oregon statute apportioning the punitive damages award and claims that any punitive damages award released by the state reverts to plaintiff. In February 2010, the trial court ruled that
  
         55   

Table of Contents  

the state is not entitled to collect its sixty percent share of the punitive damages award. In June 2010, after hearing argument, the trial court held that, under the Oregon statute, PM USA is
not required to pay the sixty percent share to plaintiff. In October 2010 the trial court rejected plaintiff s argument that the Oregon statute regarding allocation of punitive damages is unconstitutional. The combined effect of these
rulings is that PM USA would not be required to pay the state s sixty percent share of the punitive damages award. Both the plaintiff in  Williams  and the state appealed these rulings to the Oregon Court of Appeals. On its own motion, the
Oregon Court of Appeals on December 15, 2010, certified the appeals to the Oregon Supreme Court, and on December 16, 2010, the Oregon Supreme Court accepted certification. PM USA has asked the Oregon Supreme Court to reconsider its
decision to accept certification of the case.                      Security for Judgments:  To obtain stays of judgments pending current
appeals, as of December 31, 2010, PM USA has posted various forms of security totaling approximately $103 million, the majority of which has been collateralized with cash deposits that are included in other assets on the consolidated balance
sheets.                     Engle    Class Action:  In July 2000, in the second phase of the  Engle  smoking and health class action in Florida, a jury returned a verdict assessing
punitive damages totaling approximately $145 billion against various defendants, including $74 billion against PM USA. Following entry of judgment, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of $100 million and appealed.   
  In May 2001, the trial court approved a stipulation providing that execution of the punitive damages component of the  Engle  judgment will
remain stayed against PM USA and the other participating defendants through the completion of all judicial review. As a result of the stipulation, PM USA placed $500 million into a separate interest-bearing escrow account that, regardless of the
outcome of the judicial review, will be paid to the court and the court will determine how to allocate or distribute it consistent with Florida Rules of Civil Procedure. In July 2001, PM USA also placed $1.2 billion into an interest-bearing escrow
account, which was returned to PM USA in December 2007. In addition, the $100 million bond related to the case has been discharged. In connection with the stipulation, PM USA recorded a $500 million pre-tax charge in its consolidated statement of
earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2001. In May 2003, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal reversed the judgment entered by the trial court and instructed the trial court to order the decertification of the class. Plaintiffs
petitioned the Florida Supreme Court for further review.      In July 2006, the Florida Supreme Court ordered that the punitive damages award
be vacated, that the class approved by the trial court be decertified, and that members of the decertified class could file individual actions against defendants within one year of issuance of the mandate. The court further declared the following
Phase I findings are entitled to  res judicata  effect in such individual actions brought within one year of the issuance of the mandate: (i) that smoking causes various diseases; (ii) that nicotine in cigarettes is addictive;
(iii) that defendants  cigarettes were defective and unreasonably dangerous; (iv) that defendants concealed or omitted material information not otherwise known or available knowing that the material was false or misleading or failed
to disclose a material fact concerning the health effects or addictive nature of smoking; (v) that defendants agreed to misrepresent information regarding the health effects or addictive nature of cigarettes with the intention of causing the
public to rely on this information to their detriment; (vi) that defendants agreed to conceal or omit information regarding the health effects of cigarettes or their addictive nature with the intention that smokers would rely on the information
to their detriment; (vii) that all defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that were defective; and (viii) that defendants were negligent. The court also reinstated compensatory damages awards totaling approximately $6.9 million to two
individual plaintiffs and found that a third plaintiff s claim was barred by the statute of limitations. In February 2008, PM USA paid a total of $2,964,685, which represents its share of compensatory damages and interest to the two
individual plaintiffs identified in the Florida Supreme Court s order.      In August 2006, PM USA sought rehearing from the Florida
Supreme Court on parts of its July 2006 opinion, including the ruling (described above) that certain jury findings have  res judicata  effect in subsequent individual trials timely brought by  Engle  class members. The rehearing motion
also asked, among other things, that legal errors that were raised but not expressly ruled upon in the Third District Court of Appeal or in the Florida Supreme Court now be addressed. Plaintiffs also filed a motion for rehearing in August 2006
seeking clarification of the applicability of the statute of limitations to non-members of the decertified class. In December 2006, the Florida Supreme Court refused to revise its July 2006 ruling, except that it revised the set of Phase I findings
entitled to  res judicata  effect by excluding finding (v) listed above (relating to agreement to misrepresent information), and added the finding that defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that, at the time of sale or supply, did not
conform to the representations of fact made by defendants. In January 2007, the Florida Supreme Court issued the mandate from its revised opinion. Defendants then filed a motion with the Florida Third District Court of Appeal requesting that the
court address legal errors that were previously raised by defendants but have not yet been addressed either by the Third District Court of Appeal or by the Florida Supreme Court. In February 2007, the Third District Court of Appeal denied
defendants  motion. In May 2007, defendants  motion for a partial stay of the mandate pending the completion of appellate review was denied by the Third District Court of Appeal. In May 2007, defendants filed a petition for  writ of
certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court. In October 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petition. In November 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petition for rehearing from the denial
of their petition for  writ of certiorari .      The deadline for filing  Engle  progeny cases, as required by the Florida Supreme
Court s decision, expired in January 2008. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 7,228 cases (3,288 state court cases and 3,940 federal court cases) were pending against PM USA or Altria Group, Inc. asserting individual claims by or on
behalf of approximately 8,900 plaintiffs (4,961 state court plaintiffs and 3,939 federal court plaintiffs). It is possible that some of these cases are duplicates. Some of these cases have been removed from various Florida state courts to the
federal district courts in Florida,   
         56   

Table of Contents  

while others were filed in federal court. In July 2007, PM USA and other defendants requested that the multi-district litigation panel order the transfer of all such cases pending in the federal
courts, as well as any other  Engle  progeny cases that may be filed, to the Middle District of Florida for pretrial coordination. The panel denied this request in December 2007. In October 2007, attorneys for plaintiffs filed a motion to
consolidate all pending and future cases filed in the state trial court in Hillsborough County. The court denied this motion in November 2007. In February 2008, the trial court decertified the class except for purposes of the May 2001 bond
stipulation, and formally vacated the punitive damages award pursuant to the Florida Supreme Court s mandate. In April 2008, the trial court ruled that certain defendants, including PM USA, lacked standing with respect to allocation of the
funds escrowed under the May 2001 bond stipulation and will receive no credit at this time from the $500 million paid by PM USA against any future punitive damages awards in cases brought by former  Engle  class members.   
  In May 2008, the trial court, among other things, decertified the limited class maintained for purposes of the May 2001 bond stipulation and, in
July 2008, severed the remaining plaintiffs  claims except for those of Howard Engle. The only remaining plaintiff in the  Engle  case, Howard Engle, voluntarily dismissed his claims with prejudice. In July 2008, attorneys for a putative
former  Engle  class member petitioned the Florida Supreme Court to permit members of the  Engle  class additional time to file individual lawsuits. The Florida Supreme Court denied this petition in January 2009.   
          
    Federal Engle Progeny Cases:  Three federal district courts (in the  Merlob ,  Brown  and  Burr  cases) ruled that the findings in the first phase of the  Engle  proceedings cannot be used to satisfy
elements of plaintiffs  claims, and two of those rulings ( Brown  and  Burr ) were certified by the trial court for interlocutory review. The certification in both cases was granted by the United States Court of Appeals for the
Eleventh Circuit and the appeals were consolidated. In February 2009, the appeal in  Burr  was dismissed for lack of prosecution. In July 2010, the Eleventh Circuit ruled that plaintiffs do not have an unlimited right to use the findings
from the original  Engle  trial to meet their burden of establishing the elements of their claims at trial. Rather, plaintiffs may only use the findings to establish those specific facts, if any, that they demonstrate with a reasonable degree
of certainty were actually decided by the original  Engle  jury. The Eleventh Circuit remanded the case to the district court to determine what specific factual findings the  Engle  jury actually made.  Engle  progeny cases pending in
the federal district courts in the Middle District of Florida asserting individual claims by or on behalf of approximately 4,420 plaintiffs had been stayed pending the Eleventh Circuit s review. On December 22, 2010, stays were lifted in
12 cases selected by plaintiffs, and notices of voluntary dismissals of approximately 500 cases have been granted. The remaining cases are currently stayed.                  Florida Bond Cap Statute:  In
June 2009, Florida amended its existing bond cap statute by adding a $200 million bond cap that applies to all  Engle  progeny lawsuits in the aggregate and establishes individual bond caps for individual  Engle  progeny cases in amounts
that vary depending on the number of judgments in effect at a given time. The legislation, which became effective in June 2009, applies to judgments entered after the effective date and remains in effect until December 31, 2012. Plaintiffs in
three  Engle  progeny cases against R.J. Reynolds in Alachua County, Florida ( Alexander, Townsend  and  Hall ) and one case in Escambia County ( Clay ) have challenged the constitutionality of the bond cap statute. The Florida
Attorney General has intervened in these cases in defense of the constitutionality of the statute. Argument in these cases was heard in September 2010. Plaintiffs in one  Engle  progeny case against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds in Hillsborough
County ( Douglas ) have also challenged the constitutionality of the bond cap statute. On January 4, 2011, the trial court in Escambia County rejected plaintiffs  bond cap statute challenge and declared the statute constitutional in
the  Clay  case.                  Engle Progeny Trial Results:  As of December 31, 2010, eighteen  Engle  progeny cases involving PM USA have resulted in verdicts since the Florida Supreme Court
 Engle  decision. Nine verdicts (see  Hess, Barbanell, F. Campbell, Naugle, Douglas ,  R. Cohen, Putney, Tate  and  Piendle  descriptions in the table above) were returned in favor of plaintiffs and nine verdicts were returned in
favor of PM USA ( Gelep, Kalyvas, Gil de Rubio, Warrick, Willis, Frazier, C. Campbell, Rohr  and  Espinosa ).  Engle  progeny trial results adverse to PM USA are included in the totals provided in  Trial Results  above. In
addition, there have been a number of mistrials, only some of which have resulted in new trials as of December 31, 2010.      In
 Lukacs , a case that was tried to verdict before the Florida Supreme Court  Engle  decision and is described in  Trial Results  above, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal in March 2010 affirmed  per curiam  the trial
court decision without issuing an opinion. Under Florida procedure, further review of a  per curiam  affirmance without opinion by the Florida Supreme Court is generally prohibited. In April 2010, defendants filed their petition for rehearing
with the Court of Appeal. In May 2010, the Court of Appeal denied the defendants  petition. The defendants paid the judgment in June 2010.      In May 2010, the jury returned a verdict in favor of PM USA in the  Gil de Rubio  case. In June 2010, plaintiff filed a motion for a new trial.   
  In October 2010, juries in five  Engle  progeny cases ( Warrick ,  Willis ,  Frazier ,  C. Campbell  and  Rohr )
returned verdicts in favor of PM USA. The  Willis  and  C. Campbell  cases have concluded.      On November 12, 2010, the jury
in the  Espinosa  case returned a verdict in favor of PM USA.   
          
    Appeals of Engle Progeny Verdicts:  Plaintiffs in various  Engle  progeny cases have appealed adverse rulings or verdicts, and in some cases, PM USA has cross-appealed. PM USA s appeals of adverse verdicts are
discussed in  Trial Results  above.      On December 14, 2010, in a case against R.J. Reynolds in Escambia County ( Martin ),
the Florida First District Court of Appeals issued the first ruling by a Florida intermediate appellate court to substantively address the  Brown  decision of the   
         57   

Table of Contents  

U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, affirming the final judgment entered in plaintiff s favor imposing both compensatory and punitive damages. The panel held that the
trial court correctly construed the Florida Supreme Court s 2006 decision in  Engle  in instructing the jury on the preclusive effect of the first phase of the  Engle  proceedings, expressly disagreeing with certain aspects of the
 Brown  decision. R.J. Reynolds is seeking  en banc  review as well as certification of the appeal to the Florida Supreme Court.                     Scott    Class Action:  In July 2003, following the
first phase of the trial in the  Scott  class action, in which plaintiffs sought creation of a fund to pay for medical monitoring and smoking cessation programs, a Louisiana jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants, including PM USA, in
connection with plaintiffs  medical monitoring claims, but also found that plaintiffs could benefit from smoking cessation assistance. The jury also found that cigarettes as designed are not defective but that the defendants failed to disclose
all they knew about smoking and diseases and marketed their products to minors. In May 2004, in the second phase of the trial, the jury awarded plaintiffs approximately $590 million against all defendants jointly and severally, to fund a 10-year
smoking cessation program.      In June 2004, the court entered judgment, which awarded plaintiffs the approximately $590 million jury award
plus prejudgment interest accruing from the date the suit commenced. PM USA s share of the jury award and prejudgment interest has not been allocated. Defendants, including PM USA, appealed. Pursuant to a stipulation of the parties, the trial
court entered an order setting the amount of the bond at $50 million for all defendants in accordance with an article of the Louisiana Code of Civil Procedure, and a Louisiana statute (the  bond cap law ), fixing the amount of security in
civil cases involving a signatory to the MSA. Under the terms of the stipulation, plaintiffs reserve the right to contest, at a later date, the sufficiency or amount of the bond on any grounds including the applicability or constitutionality of the
bond cap law. In September 2004, defendants collectively posted a bond in the amount of $50 million ($12.5 million of which was posted by PM USA).      In February 2007, the Louisiana Fourth Circuit Court of Appeal issued a ruling on defendants  appeal that, among other things: affirmed class certification but limited the scope of the class; struck certain of
the categories of damages included in the judgment, reducing the amount of the award by approximately $312 million; vacated the award of prejudgment interest, which totaled approximately $444 million as of February 15, 2007; and ruled that the
only class members who are eligible to participate in the smoking cessation program are those who began smoking before, and whose claims accrued by, September 1, 1988. As a result, the Louisiana Court of Appeal remanded the case for proceedings
consistent with its opinion, including further reduction of the amount of the award based on the size of the new class. In March 2007, the Louisiana Court of Appeal rejected defendants  motion for rehearing and clarification. In January 2008,
the Louisiana Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  and defendants  petitions for  writ of certiorari . In March 2008, plaintiffs filed a motion to execute the approximately $279 million judgment plus post-judgment interest or, in the
alternative, for an order to the parties to submit revised damages figures. Defendants filed a motion to have judgment entered in favor of defendants based on accrual of all class member claims after September 1, 1988 or, in the alternative,
for the entry of a case management order. In April 2008, the Louisiana Supreme Court denied defendants  motion to stay proceedings and the defendants filed a petition for  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court. In June
2008, the United States Supreme Court denied the defendant s petition. Plaintiffs filed a motion to enter judgment in the amount of approximately $280 million (subsequently changed to approximately $264 million) and defendants filed a motion to
enter judgment in their favor dismissing the case entirely or, alternatively, to enter a case management order for a new trial. In July 2008, the trial court entered an Amended Judgment and Reasons for Judgment denying both motions, but ordering
defendants to deposit into the registry of the court the sum of $263,532,762 plus post-judgment interest.      In September 2008, defendants
filed an application for  writ of mandamus  or  supervisory writ  to secure the right to appeal with the Louisiana Fourth Circuit Court of Appeal, and in December 2008, the trial court entered an order permitting the appeal and approving a
$50 million bond for all defendants in accordance with the Louisiana bond cap law discussed above. In April 2009, plaintiffs filed a cross-appeal seeking to reinstate the June 2004 judgment and to award the medical monitoring rejected by the jury.
     In April 2010, the Louisiana Fourth Circuit Court of Appeal issued a decision that affirmed in part prior decisions ordering the
defendants to fund a statewide 10-year smoking cessation program. In its decision, the Court of Appeal amended and, as amended, affirmed the amended 2008 trial court judgment and ruled that, although the trial court erred, the defendants have
no right to a trial to determine, among other things, those class members with valid claims not barred by Louisiana law. After conducting its own independent review of the record, the Court of Appeal made its own factual findings with respect to
liability and the amount owed, lowering the amount of the judgment to approximately $241 million, plus interest commencing July 21, 2008, the date of entry of the amended judgment (which as of December 31, 2010 is approximately $32
million). In its decision, the Court of Appeal disallowed approximately $80 million in post-judgment interest. In addition, the Court of Appeal declined plaintiffs  cross appeal requests for a medical monitoring program and reinstatement of
other components of the smoking cessation program. The Court of Appeal specifically reserved to the defendants the right to assert claims to any unspent or unused surplus funds at the termination of the smoking cessation program. In June 2010,
defendants and plaintiffs filed separate  writ of certiorari  applications with the Louisiana Supreme Court. The Louisiana Supreme Court denied both sides  applications. In September 2010, upon defendants  application, the United
States Supreme Court granted a stay of the judgment pending the defendants  filing and the Court s disposition of the defendants  petition for a  writ of certiorari . The defendants  filed their petition for a  writ of
certiorari  on   
         58   

Table of Contents  

December 2, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, PM USA has recorded a provision of $26 million in connection with the case and has recorded additional provisions of approximately $3.4
million related to accrued interest.       Smoking and Health Litigation                   Overview:  Plaintiffs 
allegations of liability in smoking and health cases are based on various theories of recovery, including negligence, gross negligence, strict liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, nuisance, breach of express and
implied warranties, breach of special duty, conspiracy, concert of action, violations of deceptive trade practice laws and consumer protection statutes, and claims under the federal and state anti-racketeering statutes. Plaintiffs in the smoking and
health actions seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and punitive damages, treble/multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, creation of medical monitoring and smoking cessation funds, disgorgement of profits, and
injunctive and equitable relief. Defenses raised in these cases include lack of proximate cause, assumption of the risk, comparative fault and/or contributory negligence, statutes of limitations and preemption by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and
Advertising Act.      In July 2008, the New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Department in  Fabiano , an
individual personal injury case, held that plaintiffs  punitive damages claim was barred by the MSA based on principles of  res judicata  because the New York Attorney General had already litigated the punitive damages claim on
behalf of all New York residents. In May 2010, the New York Supreme Court, Appellate Division, Second Department, adopted the reasoning of the First Department in  Fabiano  and issued a  per curiam  opinion affirming separate trial court
rulings dismissing plaintiffs  punitive damages claims in  Shea  and  Tomasino , two individual personal injury cases.                  Smoking and Health Class Actions:  Since the dismissal in May 1996 of
a purported nationwide class action brought on behalf of allegedly addicted smokers, plaintiffs have filed numerous putative smoking and health class action suits in various state and federal courts. In general, these cases purport to be brought on
behalf of residents of a particular state or states (although a few cases purport to be nationwide in scope) and raise addiction claims and, in many cases, claims of physical injury as well.   
  Class certification has been denied or reversed by courts in 58 smoking and health class actions involving PM USA in Arkansas (1), the District of
Columbia (2), Florida (2), Illinois (3), Iowa (1), Kansas (1), Louisiana (1), Maryland (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (1), Nevada (29), New Jersey (6), New York (2), Ohio (1), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (1), Puerto Rico (1), South Carolina (1), Texas
(1) and Wisconsin (1).      PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. are named as defendants, along with other cigarette manufacturers, in six
actions filed in the Canadian provinces of Alberta, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Saskatchewan and British Columbia. In Saskatchewan and British Columbia, plaintiffs seek class certification on behalf of individuals who suffer or have suffered from various
diseases including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, emphysema, heart disease or cancer after smoking defendants  cigarettes. In the actions filed in Alberta, Manitoba and Nova Scotia, plaintiffs seek certification of classes of all
individuals who smoked defendants  cigarettes. See  Guarantees  for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products.

Medical Monitoring Class Actions:  A class remains certified in the  Scott  class action discussed above. Four other purported medical monitoring class actions are pending against PM USA. These cases have been brought in
New York ( Caronia , filed in January 2006 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York), Massachusetts ( Donovan , filed in December 2006 in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts),
California ( Xavier , filed in May 2010 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California), and Florida ( Gargano , filed on November 9, 2010 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of
Florida) on behalf of each state s respective residents who: are age 50 or older; have smoked the  Marlboro  brand for 20 pack-years or more; and have neither been diagnosed with lung cancer nor are under investigation by a physician for
suspected lung cancer. Plaintiffs in these cases seek to impose liability under various product-based causes of action and the creation of a court-supervised program providing members of the purported class Low Dose CT Scanning in order to identify
and diagnose lung cancer. Plaintiffs in these cases do not seek punitive damages.      In  Caronia , in February 2010, the district
court granted in part PM USA s summary judgment motion, dismissing plaintiffs  strict liability and negligence claims and certain other claims, granted plaintiffs leave to amend their complaint to allege a medical monitoring cause of
action and requested further briefing on PM USA s summary judgment motion as to plaintiffs  implied warranty claim and, if plaintiffs amend their complaint, their medical monitoring claim. In March 2010, plaintiffs filed their amended
complaint and PM USA moved to dismiss the implied warranty and medical monitoring claims. On January 13, 2011, the district court granted PM USA s motion, dismissed plaintiffs  claims and declared plaintiffs  motion for class
certification moot in light of the dismissal of the case. The plaintiffs have filed a notice of appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.      In  Donovan , the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in answering questions certified to it by the district court, held in October 2009 that under certain circumstances state law recognizes a claim by
individual smokers for medical monitoring despite the absence of an actual injury. The court also ruled that whether or not the case is barred by the applicable statute of limitations is a factual issue to be determined by the trial court. The case
was remanded to federal court for further proceedings. In June 2010, the district court granted in part the plaintiffs  motion for class certification, certifying the class as to plaintiffs  claims for breach of implied warranty and
violation of the Massachusetts Consumer Protection Act,   
         59   

Table of Contents  

but denying certification as to plaintiffs  negligence claim. In July 2010, PM USA petitioned the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit for appellate review of the class certification
decision. The petition was denied in September 2010. Trial has been set for August 1, 2011.      In  Xavier , in October 2010, the
trial court granted PM USA s motion to dismiss plaintiffs  unfair competition claim and independent medical monitoring cause of action. Although a class has not yet been certified, trial has been set for November 14, 2011.   
  In  Gargano , PM USA filed a motion to dismiss on December 20, 2010. On January 18, 2011, after the time to respond to PM USA s
motion to dismiss had expired, plaintiff filed a motion seeking leave to file an amended complaint.      Another purported class action
( Calistro ) was filed in July 2010 in the U.S. District Court for the District of the Virgin Islands, Division of St. Thomas   St. John. Altria Group, Inc. was voluntarily dismissed from the case by the plaintiffs in August 2010. In
September 2010, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed without prejudice their claims against all defendants except PM USA. Plaintiffs filed a motion to stay and transfer the case to the  Lights  multidistrict litigation proceeding discussed
below. Following the plaintiffs  amendment of their complaint to assert only  Lights  economic loss claims and to eliminate all medical monitoring claims, the case was transferred to the multidistrict  Lights  proceedings
discussed below.       Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation                   Overview:  In health care
cost recovery litigation, governmental entities and non-governmental plaintiffs seek reimbursement of health care cost expenditures allegedly caused by tobacco products and, in some cases, of future expenditures and damages as well. Relief sought by
some but not all plaintiffs includes punitive damages, multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, injunctions prohibiting alleged marketing and sales to minors, disclosure of research, disgorgement of profits, funding of
anti-smoking programs, additional disclosure of nicotine yields, and payment of attorney and expert witness fees.      The claims asserted
include the claim that cigarette manufacturers were  unjustly enriched  by plaintiffs  payment of health care costs allegedly attributable to smoking, as well as claims of indemnity, negligence, strict liability, breach of express and
implied warranty, violation of a voluntary undertaking or special duty, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, conspiracy, public nuisance, claims under federal and state statutes governing consumer fraud, antitrust, deceptive trade practices and false
advertising, and claims under federal and state anti-racketeering statutes.      Defenses raised include lack of proximate cause, remoteness
of injury, failure to state a valid claim, lack of benefit, adequate remedy at law,  unclean hands  (namely, that plaintiffs cannot obtain equitable relief because they participated in, and benefited from, the sale of cigarettes), lack of
antitrust standing and injury, federal preemption, lack of statutory authority to bring suit, and statutes of limitations. In addition, defendants argue that they should be entitled to  set off  any alleged damages to the extent the
plaintiffs benefit economically from the sale of cigarettes through the receipt of excise taxes or otherwise. Defendants also argue that these cases are improper because plaintiffs must proceed under principles of subrogation and assignment. Under
traditional theories of recovery, a payor of medical costs (such as an insurer) can seek recovery of health care costs from a third party solely by  standing in the shoes  of the injured party. Defendants argue that plaintiffs should be
required to bring any actions as subrogees of individual health care recipients and should be subject to all defenses available against the injured party.      Although there have been some decisions to the contrary, most judicial decisions have dismissed all or most health care cost recovery claims against cigarette manufacturers. Nine federal circuit courts of appeals
and eight state appellate courts, relying primarily on grounds that plaintiffs  claims were too remote, have ordered or affirmed dismissals of health care cost recovery actions. The United States Supreme Court has refused to consider
plaintiffs  appeals from the cases decided by five circuit courts of appeals.      In March 1999, in the first health care cost recovery
case to go to trial, an Ohio jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants on all counts. In addition, a $17.8 million verdict against defendants (including $6.8 million against PM USA) was reversed in a health care cost recovery case in New York,
and all claims were dismissed with prejudice in February 2005 ( Blue Cross/Blue Shield ).      In the health care cost recovery case
brought by the City of St. Louis, Missouri and approximately 40 Missouri hospitals, in which PM USA, USSTC and Altria Group, Inc. are defendants ( City of St. Louis ), the trial court in July 2010, granted defendants  motion for summary
judgment with respect to certain of plaintiffs  claims on the grounds that they were preempted. The court had earlier denied a number of other summary judgment motions by defendants and denied plaintiffs  motion for summary judgment
claiming collateral estoppel from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see  Federal Government s Lawsuit  described below). The court also had previously granted defendants  motion for partial summary
judgment on plaintiffs  claim for future damages (although on November 29, 2010, the trial court ruled that the damages period for the case would extend through December 31, 2010). In September 2010, the trial court denied several of
defendants  summary judgment motions, but granted defendants  motion seeking to prevent plaintiffs from recovering the  present value  of their damages, which are alleged to amount to approximately $300 million. In October 2010,
the trial court granted defendants summary judgment with respect to plaintiffs  fraud and negligent misrepresentation claims. Trial began on January 10, 2011.      Individuals and associations have also sued in purported class actions or as private attorneys general under the Medicare as Secondary Payer ( MSP ) provisions of the Social Security Act to recover from
defendants Medicare expenditures allegedly incurred for the treatment of smoking-related diseases. Cases brought in New York ( Mason ), Florida ( Glover ) and Massachusetts ( United Seniors Association )
  
         60   

Table of Contents  

have been dismissed by federal courts. In April 2008, an action,  National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, et al. v. Philip Morris USA, et al.  (  National
Committee I  ), was brought under the MSP statute in the Circuit Court of the Eleventh Judicial Circuit of and for Miami County, Florida, but was dismissed voluntarily in May 2008. The action purported to be brought on behalf of
Medicare to recover an unspecified amount of damages equal to double the amount paid by Medicare for smoking-related health care services provided from April 19, 2002 to the present.   
  In May 2008, an action,  National Committee to Preserve Social Security, et al. v. Philip Morris USA, et al. , was brought under the MSP
statute in United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. This action was brought by the same plaintiffs as  National Committee I  and similarly purports to be brought on behalf of Medicare to recover an unspecified amount
of damages equal to double the amount paid by Medicare for smoking-related health care services provided from May 21, 2002 to the present. In July 2008, defendants filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs  claims and plaintiffs filed a motion
for partial summary judgment. In March 2009, the court granted defendants  motion to dismiss. Plaintiffs noticed an appeal in May 2009. In February 2010, defendants moved to dismiss the individual plaintiff s appeal. In October 2010, the
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit dismissed plaintiffs  complaint for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. The plaintiffs subsequently filed a petition for rehearing  en banc  with the Court of Appeals, which petition
was denied on November 22, 2010. On December 22, 2010, the district court entered an order dismissing the case.      In addition to
the cases brought in the United States, health care cost recovery actions have also been brought against tobacco industry participants, including PM USA and Altria Group, Inc., in Israel (1), the Marshall Islands (1 dismissed), and Canada
(3), and other entities have stated that they are considering filing such actions. In the case in Israel, the defendants  appeal of the district court s denial of their motion to dismiss was heard by the Israel Supreme Court in March
2005, and the parties are awaiting the court s decision. In September 2005, in the first of the three health care cost recovery cases filed in Canada, the Canadian Supreme Court ruled that legislation passed in British Columbia permitting the
lawsuit is constitutional, and, as a result, the case, which had previously been dismissed by the trial court, was permitted to proceed. PM USA s and other defendants  challenge to the British Columbia court s exercise of jurisdiction
was rejected by the Court of Appeals of British Columbia and, in April 2007, the Supreme Court of Canada denied review of that decision. In December 2009, the Court of Appeals of British Columbia ruled that certain defendants can proceed
against the Federal Government of Canada as third parties on the theory that the Federal Government of Canada negligently misrepresented to defendants the efficacy of a low tar tobacco variety that the Federal Government of Canada developed and
licensed to defendants. In May 2010, the Supreme Court of Canada granted leave to the Federal Government of Canada to appeal this decision and leave to defendants to cross-appeal the Court of Appeals  decision to dismiss claims against the
Federal Government of Canada based on other theories of liability. The Supreme Court of Canada is scheduled to hear the appeal in February 2011. During 2008, the Province of New Brunswick, Canada, proclaimed into law previously adopted legislation
allowing reimbursement claims to be brought against cigarette manufacturers, and it filed suit shortly thereafter. In September 2009, the Province of Ontario, Canada, filed suit against a number of cigarette manufacturers based on previously adopted
legislation nearly identical in substance to the New Brunswick health care cost recovery legislation. PM USA is named as a defendant in the British Columbia case, while Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA are named as defendants in the New Brunswick and
Ontario cases. Several other provinces and territories in Canada have enacted similar legislation or are in the process of enacting similar legislation. See  Guarantees  for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group,
Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products.                  Settlements of Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation:  In November 1998, PM USA and certain other United States tobacco
product manufacturers entered into the MSA with 46 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa and the Northern Marianas to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other
claims. PM USA and certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (together with the MSA, the  State Settlement Agreements ). The State
Settlement Agreements require that the original participating manufacturers make substantial annual payments of approximately $9.4 billion each year, subject to adjustments for several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume.
In addition, the original participating manufacturers are required to pay settling plaintiffs  attorneys  fees, subject to an annual cap of $500 million. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the aggregate
amount recorded in cost of sales with respect to the State Settlement Agreements and the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ( FETRA ) was approximately $4.8 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively.   
  The State Settlement Agreements also include provisions relating to advertising and marketing restrictions, public disclosure of certain industry
documents, limitations on challenges to certain tobacco control and underage use laws, restrictions on lobbying activities and other provisions.                  Possible Adjustments in MSA Payments for 2003 to 2009:  Pursuant to
the provisions of the MSA, domestic tobacco product manufacturers, including PM USA, who are original signatories to the MSA (the  Original Participating Manufacturers  or  OPMs ) are participating in proceedings that may result
in downward adjustments to the amounts paid by the OPMs and the other MSA-participating manufacturers to the states and territories that are parties to the MSA for each of the years 2003 to 2009. The proceedings relate to an MSA payment adjustment
(the  NPM Adjustment ) based on the collective loss of market share for the relevant year by all participating manufacturers who are   
         61   

Table of Contents  

subject to the payment obligations and marketing restrictions of the MSA to non-participating manufacturers ( NPMs ) who are not subject to such obligations and restrictions.
     As part of these proceedings, an independent economic consulting firm jointly selected by the MSA parties or otherwise selected pursuant
to the MSA s provisions is required to determine whether the disadvantages of the MSA were a  significant factor  contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year in question. If the
firm determines that the disadvantages of the MSA were such a  significant factor,  each state may avoid a downward adjustment to its share of the participating manufacturers  annual payments for that year by establishing that it
diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute during the entirety of that year. Any potential downward adjustment would then be reallocated to any states that do not establish such diligent enforcement. PM USA believes that the MSA s
arbitration clause requires a state to submit its claim to have diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute to binding arbitration before a panel of three former federal judges in the manner provided for in the MSA. A number of states have taken
the position that this claim should be decided in state court on a state-by-state basis.      In March 2006, an independent economic
consulting firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2003. In February 2007, this same firm determined that the
disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2004. In February 2008, the same economic consulting firm determined that the disadvantages of the
MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2005. A different economic consulting firm was selected to make the  significant factor  determination
regarding the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2006. In March 2009, this firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers 
collective loss of market share for the year 2006. Following the firm s determination for 2006, the OPMs and the states agreed that the states would not contest that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the
participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the years 2007, 2008 and 2009. Accordingly, the OPMs and the states have agreed that no  significant factor  determination by the firm will be necessary with respect to
the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the years 2007, 2008 and 2009. This agreement became effective for 2007 on February 1, 2010 and will become effective for 2008 and 2009 on February 1, 2011 and
February 1, 2012, respectively.      Following the economic consulting firm s determination with respect to 2003, thirty-eight
states filed declaratory judgment actions in state courts seeking a declaration that the state diligently enforced its escrow statute during 2003. The OPMs and other MSA-participating manufacturers responded to these actions by filing motions to
compel arbitration in accordance with the terms of the MSA, including filing motions to compel arbitration in eleven MSA states and territories that did not file declaratory judgment actions. Courts in all but one of the forty-six MSA states and the
District of Columbia and Puerto Rico have ruled that the question of whether a state diligently enforced its escrow statute during 2003 is subject to arbitration. One state court (in  State of Montana ) has ruled that the diligent enforcement
claims of that state may be litigated in state court, rather than in arbitration. Several of these rulings may be subject to further review. In January 2010, the OPMs filed a petition for a  writ of certiorari  in the United States Supreme
Court seeking further review of the one decision holding that a state s diligent enforcement claims may be litigated in state court, rather than in arbitration. The petition was denied in June 2010. Following the denial of this petition,
Montana renewed an action in its state court seeking a declaratory judgment that it diligently enforced its escrow statute during 2003 and other relief. The OPMs have moved to stay that action. Argument on the motion occurred in October 2010.
     PM USA, the other OPMs and approximately twenty-five other MSA-participating manufacturers have entered into an agreement regarding
arbitration with forty-five MSA states concerning the 2003 NPM Adjustment, including the states  claims of diligent enforcement for 2003. The agreement further provides for a partial liability reduction for the 2003 NPM Adjustment for states
that entered into the agreement by January 30, 2009 and are determined in the arbitration not to have diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute during 2003. Based on the number of states that entered into the agreement by January 30,
2009 (forty-five), the partial liability reduction for those states is 20%. The partial liability reduction would reduce the amount of PM USA s 2003 NPM Adjustment by up to a corresponding percentage. The selection of the arbitration panel for
the 2003 NPM Adjustment was completed in July 2010, and the arbitration is currently ongoing. Proceedings to determine state diligent enforcement claims for the years 2004 through 2009 have not yet been scheduled.   
         62   

Table of Contents  

   Once a significant factor determination in favor of the participating manufacturers for a particular
year has been made by the economic consulting firm, or the states  agreement not to contest significant factor for a particular year has become effective, PM USA has the right under the MSA to pay the disputed amount of the NPM Adjustment for
that year into a disputed payments account or withhold it altogether. To date, PM USA has made its full MSA payment each year to the states (subject to a right to recoup the NPM Adjustment amount in the form of a credit against future MSA payments),
even though it had the right to deduct the disputed amounts of the 2003   2007 NPM Adjustments, as described above, from its MSA payments due in the years 2006   2010, respectively. The approximate maximum principal amounts of PM
USA s share of the disputed NPM Adjustment for the years 2003 through 2009, as currently calculated by the MSA s Independent Auditor, are as follows (these amounts do not include interest, which PM USA believes accrues at the prime rate
from the payment date for the year for which the NPM Adjustment is calculated):       
        The foregoing amounts may be recalculated by the Independent Auditor if it receives information that is different from or in addition to the information on which it based these calculations, including, among other
things, if it receives revised sales volumes from any participating manufacturer. Disputes among the manufacturers could also reduce the foregoing amounts. The availability and the precise amount of any NPM Adjustment for 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006,
2007, 2008 and 2009 will not be finally determined until late 2011 or thereafter. There is no certainty that the OPMs and other MSA-participating manufacturers will ultimately receive any adjustment as a result of these proceedings, and the amount
of any adjustment received for a year could be less than the amount for that year listed above. If the OPMs do receive such an adjustment through these proceedings, the adjustment would be allocated among the OPMs pursuant to the MSA s
provisions, and PM USA would receive its share of any adjustments in the form of a credit against future MSA payments.                  Other MSA-Related Litigation:  PM USA was named as a defendant in an
action ( Vibo ) brought in October 2008 in federal court in Kentucky by an MSA participating manufacturer that is not an OPM. Other defendants include various other participating manufacturers and the Attorneys General of all 52 states and
territories that are parties to the MSA. The plaintiff alleged that certain of the MSA s payment provisions discriminate against it in favor of certain other participating manufacturers in violation of the federal antitrust laws and the
United States Constitution. The plaintiff also sought injunctive relief, alteration of certain MSA payment provisions as applied to it, treble damages under the federal antitrust laws, and/or rescission of its joinder in the MSA. The plaintiff also
filed a motion for a preliminary injunction enjoining the states from enforcing the allegedly discriminatory payment provisions against it during the pendency of the action. In January 2009, the district court dismissed the complaint and denied
plaintiff s request for preliminary injunctive relief. In January 2010, the court entered final judgment dismissing the case. Plaintiff has appealed this decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.   
  Without naming PM USA or any other private party as a defendant, NPMs and/or their distributors or customers have filed several legal challenges to
the MSA and related legislation. New York state officials are defendants in a lawsuit ( Freedom Holdings ) filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in which cigarette importers allege that the MSA and/or
related legislation violates federal antitrust laws and the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution. In a separate proceeding pending in the same court ( Pryor ), plaintiffs assert the same theories against not only New York officials
but also the Attorneys General for thirty other states. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has held that the allegations in both actions, if proven, establish a basis for relief on antitrust and Commerce Clause grounds and
that the trial courts in New York have personal jurisdiction sufficient to enjoin other states  officials from enforcing their MSA-related legislation. On remand in  Freedom Holdings , the trial court granted summary judgment for the New
York officials and lifted a preliminary injunction against New York officials  enforcement against plaintiffs of the state s  allocable share  amendment to the MSA s Model Escrow Statute. The United States Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit affirmed that decision in October 2010. Plaintiffs have notified the United States Supreme Court that they will petition for a  writ of certiorari . Any petition is due by March 16, 2011. On remand in  Pryor ,
the trial court held that plaintiffs are unlikely to succeed on the merits and refused to enjoin the enforcement of New York s allocable share amendment to the MSA s Model Escrow Statute. That decision was affirmed by the United States
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The parties in that case have filed cross-motions for summary judgment, and the trial court heard oral argument on those motions in April 2010.   
  In another action ( Xcaliber ), the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed a trial court s dismissal of challenges
to MSA-related legislation in Louisiana under the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution. On remand in that case, and in another case filed against the Louisiana Attorney General ( S M Brands ), trial courts have
granted summary judgment for the Louisiana Attorney General. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed those judgments in decisions issued in July 2010 and August 2010. Plaintiffs in the  S M Brands  case filed a
petition for a  writ of certiorari  in the United States Supreme Court on November 8, 2010.   
         63   

Table of Contents  

   In addition to the Second and Fifth Circuit decisions above, the United States Courts of Appeals for
the Sixth, Eighth, Ninth and Tenth Circuits have affirmed dismissals or grants of summary judgment in favor of state officials in four other cases asserting antitrust and constitutional challenges to the allocable share amendment legislation in
those states.      Another proceeding ( Grand River ) has been initiated before an international arbitration tribunal under the
provisions of the North American Free Trade Agreement. A hearing on the merits concluded in February 2010. On January 12, 2011, the arbitration tribunal rejected the claims against the United States challenging MSA-related legislation in
various states.                  Federal Government s Lawsuit:  In 1999, the United States government filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia against various
cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA, and others, including Altria Group, Inc. asserting claims under three federal statutes, namely the Medical Care Recovery Act ( MCRA ), the MSP provisions of the Social Security Act and the civil
provisions of RICO. Trial of the case ended in June 2005. The lawsuit sought to recover an unspecified amount of health care costs for tobacco-related illnesses allegedly caused by defendants  fraudulent and tortious conduct and paid for by the
government under various federal health care programs, including Medicare, military and veterans  health benefits programs, and the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. The complaint alleged that such costs total more than $20 billion
annually. It also sought what it alleged to be equitable and declaratory relief, including disgorgement of profits which arose from defendants  allegedly tortious conduct, an injunction prohibiting certain actions by the defendants, and a
declaration that the defendants are liable for the federal government s future costs of providing health care resulting from defendants  alleged past tortious and wrongful conduct. In September 2000, the trial court dismissed the
government s MCRA and MSP claims, but permitted discovery to proceed on the government s claims for relief under the civil provisions of RICO.      The government alleged that disgorgement by defendants of approximately $280 billion is an appropriate remedy. In May 2004, the trial court issued an order denying defendants  motion for partial summary
judgment limiting the disgorgement remedy. In February 2005, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit held that disgorgement is not a remedy available to the government under the civil provisions of RICO and
entered summary judgment in favor of defendants with respect to the disgorgement claim. In April 2005, the Court of Appeals denied the government s motion for rehearing. In July 2005, the government petitioned the United States Supreme Court
for further review of the Court of Appeals  ruling that disgorgement is not an available remedy, and in October 2005, the Supreme Court denied the petition.      In June 2005, the government filed with the trial court its proposed final judgment seeking remedies of approximately $14 billion, including $10 billion over a five-year period to fund a national smoking cessation
program and $4 billion over a ten-year period to fund a public education and counter-marketing campaign. Further, the government s proposed remedy would have required defendants to pay additional monies to these programs if targeted reductions
in the smoking rate of those under 21 are not achieved according to a prescribed timetable. The government s proposed remedies also included a series of measures and restrictions applicable to cigarette business operations   including, but
not limited to, restrictions on advertising and marketing, potential measures with respect to certain price promotional activities and research and development, disclosure requirements for certain confidential data and implementation of a monitoring
system with potential broad powers over cigarette operations.      In August 2006, the federal trial court entered judgment in favor of the
government. The court held that certain defendants, including Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA, violated RICO and engaged in 7 of the 8  sub-schemes  to defraud that the government had alleged. Specifically, the court found that:
              defendants falsely denied, distorted and minimized the significant adverse health consequences of smoking;               defendants hid from the public that cigarette
smoking and nicotine are addictive;   
           defendants
 falsely denied that they control the level of nicotine delivered to create and sustain addiction;               defendants falsely marketed and promoted  low tar/light  cigarettes as less
harmful than full-flavor cigarettes;   
           defendants
 falsely denied that they intentionally marketed to youth;               defendants publicly and falsely denied that ETS is hazardous to non-smokers; and   
           defendants
 suppressed scientific research.      The court did not impose monetary penalties on the defendants, but ordered the following relief:
(i) an injunction against  committing any act of racketeering  relating to the manufacturing, marketing, promotion, health consequences or sale of cigarettes in the United States; (ii) an injunction against participating directly
or indirectly in the management or control of the Council for Tobacco Research, the Tobacco Institute, or the Center for Indoor Air Research, or any successor or affiliated entities of each; (iii) an injunction against  making, or causing
to be made in any way, any material false, misleading, or deceptive statement or representation or engaging in any public relations or marketing endeavor that is disseminated to the United States public and that misrepresents or suppresses
information concerning cigarettes  (iv) an injunction against conveying any express or implied health message through use of descriptors on cigarette packaging or in cigarette advertising or promotional material, including
 lights,   ultra lights  and  low tar,  which the court found could cause consumers to believe one cigarette brand is less hazardous than another brand; (v) the issuance of  corrective statements  in
various media regarding the adverse health effects of smoking, the addictiveness of smoking and nicotine, the lack of any significant health benefit   
         64   

Table of Contents  

from smoking  low tar  or  light  cigarettes, defendants  manipulation of cigarette design to ensure optimum nicotine delivery and the adverse health effects of exposure
to environmental tobacco smoke; (vi) the disclosure on defendants  public document websites and in the Minnesota document repository of all documents produced to the government in the lawsuit or produced in any future court or
administrative action concerning smoking and health until 2021, with certain additional requirements as to documents withheld from production under a claim of privilege or confidentiality; (vii) the disclosure of disaggregated marketing data to
the government in the same form and on the same schedule as defendants now follow in disclosing such data to the Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ) for a period of ten years; (viii) certain restrictions on the sale or transfer by
defendants of any cigarette brands, brand names, formulas or cigarette businesses within the United States; and (ix) payment of the government s costs in bringing the action.   
  In September 2006, defendants filed notices of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and in October
2006, a three judge panel of the Court of Appeals stayed the trial court s judgment pending its review of the decision. Certain defendants, including PM USA and Altria Group, Inc., filed a motion to clarify the trial court s August 2006
Final Judgment and Remedial Order. In March 2007, the trial court denied in part and granted in part defendants  post-trial motion for clarification of portions of the court s remedial order.   
  In May 2009 a three judge panel of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued a  per curiam  decision largely affirming
the trial court s judgment against defendants and in favor of the government. Although the panel largely affirmed the remedial order that was issued by the trial court, it vacated the following aspects of the order:   
           its
 application to defendants  subsidiaries;   
           the
 prohibition on the use of express or implied health messages or health descriptors, but only to the extent of extraterritorial application;               its point-of-sale display provisions; and
              its application to Brown   Williamson Holdings.      The Court of Appeals
panel remanded the case for the trial court to reconsider these four aspects of the injunction and to reformulate its remedial order accordingly. Furthermore, the Court of Appeals panel rejected all of the government s and intervenors 
cross appeal arguments and refused to broaden the remedial order entered by the trial court. The Court of Appeals panel also left undisturbed its prior holding that the government cannot obtain disgorgement as a permissible remedy under RICO.
     In July 2009, defendants filed petitions for a rehearing before the panel and for a rehearing by the entire Court of Appeals. Defendants
also filed a motion to vacate portions of the trial court s judgment on the grounds of mootness because of the passage of legislation granting FDA broad authority over the regulation of tobacco products. In September 2009, the Court of Appeals
entered three  per curiam  rulings. Two of them denied defendants  petitions for panel rehearing or for rehearing  en banc . In the third  per curiam  decision, the Court of Appeals denied defendants  suggestion of mootness
and motion for partial  vacatur . The Court of Appeals subsequently granted motions staying the issuance of its mandate pending the filing and disposition of petitions for  writs of certiorari  to the United States Supreme Court. In
February 2010, PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. filed their  certiorari  petitions with the United States Supreme Court. In addition, the federal government and the intervenors filed their own  certiorari  petitions, asking the court to
reverse an earlier Court of Appeals decision and hold that civil RICO allows the trial court to order disgorgement as well as other equitable relief, such as smoking cessation remedies, designed to redress continuing consequences of prior RICO
violations. In June 2010, the United States Supreme Court denied all of the parties  petitions. In July 2010, the Court of Appeals issued its mandate lifting the stay of the trial court s judgment and remanding the case to the trial court.
     As a result of the mandate, except for those matters remanded to the trial court for further proceedings, defendants are now subject to
the injunction discussed above and the other elements of the trial court s judgment. In September 2010, the trial court held a status conference to hear the parties  preliminary views regarding the remaining issues to be addressed on
remand. These issues include the placement and content of corrective communications, the exclusivity of the court s jurisdiction to enforce the injunction, document coding and the maintenance of a document depository. A subsequent status
conference was held on December 20, 2010. On December 22, 2010, the Court issued an order that, among other things: (1) scheduled the next status conference on February 22, 2011; (2) ordered the government to submit its
proposed corrective statements by February 3, 2011; (3) ordered the parties to file a joint status report by February 3, 2011 regarding the degree to which they have reached agreement on a number of issues; and (4) confirmed that
the Council for Tobacco Research and the Tobacco Institute are dismissed from the case.        Lights/Ultra Lights  Cases    
             
     Overview:  Plaintiffs in certain pending matters seek certification of their cases as class actions and allege, among other things, that the uses of the terms  Lights  and/or  Ultra Lights 
constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud, or RICO violations, and seek injunctive and equitable relief, including restitution and, in certain cases, punitive damages. These class actions have been brought against PM USA and,
in certain instances, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries, on behalf of individuals who purchased and consumed various brands of cigarettes, including  Marlboro Lights ,  Marlboro Ultra Lights ,  Virginia Slims Lights  and
 Superslims ,  Merit Lights  and  Cambridge Lights . Defenses raised in these cases include lack of misrepresentation, lack of causation, injury, and damages, the statute of limitations, express preemption by the Federal Cigarette
Labeling and Advertising Act ( FCLAA ) and implied preemption by the policies and directives of the FTC, non-liability under state   
         65   

Table of Contents  

statutory provisions exempting conduct that complies with federal regulatory directives, and the First Amendment. As of December 31, 2010, a total of twenty-seven such cases were pending in
the United States. Seventeen of these cases were pending in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in a single U.S. federal court as discussed below. The other cases were pending in various U.S. state courts. In addition, a purported
 Lights  class action is pending against PM USA in Israel. Other entities have stated that they are considering filing such actions against Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA.   
  In the one  Lights  case pending in Israel, hearings on plaintiffs  motion for class certification were held in November and December
2008. See  Guarantees  for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products.   
          
    The Good Case:  In May 2006, a federal trial court in Maine granted PM USA s motion for summary judgment in  Good , a purported  Lights  class action, on the grounds that plaintiffs  claims are
preempted by the FCLAA and dismissed the case. In August 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit vacated the district court s grant of PM USA s motion for summary judgment on federal preemption grounds and remanded
the case to district court. The district court stayed the case pending the United States Supreme Court s ruling on defendants  petition for  writ of certiorari  with the United States Supreme Court, which was granted in
January 2008. The case was stayed pending the United States Supreme Court s decision. In December 2008, the United States Supreme Court ruled that plaintiffs  claims are not barred by federal preemption. Although the Court
rejected the argument that the FTC s actions were so extensive with respect to the descriptors that the state law claims were barred as a matter of federal law, the Court s decision was limited: it did not address the ultimate merits of
plaintiffs  claim, the viability of the action as a class action, or other state law issues. The case has been returned to the federal court in Maine for further proceedings and has been consolidated with other federal cases in the
multidistrict litigation proceeding discussed below.   
          
    Certain Developments Since December 2008 Good Decision:  Since the December 2008 U.S. Supreme Court decision in  Good , and through December 31, 2010, twenty-four purported  Lights  class actions were
served upon PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. These cases were filed in 14 states, the U.S. Virgin Islands and the District of Columbia. All of these cases either were filed in federal court or were removed to federal court by PM USA.   
  A number of purported  Lights  class actions have been transferred and consolidated by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
( JPMDL ) before the U.S. District Court for the District of Maine for pretrial proceedings ( MDL proceeding ). As of December 31, 2010, seventeen cases against Altria Group, Inc. and/or PM USA were pending in or awaiting
transfer to the MDL proceeding. These cases, and the states in which each originated, are:  Biundo  (Illinois),  Calistro  (U.S. Virgin Islands) (discussed above),  Corse  (Tennessee),  Domaingue  (New York),  Good  (Maine),
 Hau  brich  (Pennsylvania),  McClure  (Tennessee),  Mirick  (Mississippi),  Mulford  (New Mexico),  Parsons  (District of Columbia),  Phillips  (Ohio),  Slater  (District of Columbia),  Tang  (New York),
 Tyrer  (California),  Williams  (Arkansas) and  Wyatt  (Wisconsin). On November 22, 2010, the district court in the MDL proceeding remanded the  Watson  case to Arkansas state court.   
  In November 2009, plaintiffs in the MDL proceeding filed a motion seeking collateral estoppel effect from the findings in the case brought by
the Department of Justice (see  Federal   Government s Lawsuit  described above), which motion was denied in March 2010. In May 2010, July 2010 and September 2010, the district court denied all of PM USA s summary judgment
motions. On November 24, 2010, the district court denied plaintiffs  motion for class certification in four cases, covering the jurisdictions of California, the District of Columbia, Illinois and Maine. These jurisdictions were selected by
the parties as sample cases, with two selected by plaintiffs and two selected by defendants. Plaintiffs have sought appellate review of this decision.                   Lights  Cases Dismissed, Not Certified or Ordered
De-Certified  :  To date, in addition to the district court in the MDL proceeding, 15 courts in 16  Lights  cases have refused to certify class actions, dismissed class action allegations, reversed prior class certification
decisions or have entered judgment in favor of PM USA.      Trial courts in Arizona, Illinois, Kansas, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon,
Tennessee and Washington have refused to grant class certification or have dismissed plaintiffs  class action allegations. Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed a case in Michigan after a trial court dismissed the claims plaintiffs asserted under
the Michigan Unfair Trade and Consumer Protection Act.      Several appellate courts have issued rulings that either affirmed rulings in
favor of Altria Group, Inc. and/or PM USA or reversed rulings entered in favor of plaintiffs. In Florida, an intermediate appellate court overturned an order by a trial court that granted class certification in  Hines . The Florida Supreme
Court denied review in January 2008. The Supreme Court of Illinois has overturned a judgment that awarded damages to a certified class in the  Price  case. See  The Price Case  below for further discussion. In Louisiana, the United States
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit dismissed a purported  Lights  class action brought in Louisiana federal court ( Sullivan ) on the grounds that plaintiffs  claims were preempted by the FCLAA. In New York, the United States
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit overturned a decision by a New York trial court in  Schwab  that denied defendants  summary judgment motions and granted plaintiffs  motion for certification of a nationwide class of all United
States residents that purchased cigarettes in the United States that were labeled  Light  or  Lights.  In July 2010, plaintiffs in  Schwab  voluntarily dismissed the case with prejudice. In Ohio, the Ohio Supreme Court
overturned class certifications in the  Marrone  and  Phillips  cases. Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed both cases in August 2009. The Supreme Court of Washington denied a motion for interlocutory review filed by the plaintiffs in the
 Davies  case that sought review of an order by   
         66   

Table of Contents  

the trial court that refused to certify a class. Plaintiffs subsequently voluntarily dismissed the  Davies  case with prejudice. Plaintiffs in the New Mexico case ( Mulford ) renewed
their motion for class certification, which motion was denied by the federal district court in March 2009, with leave to file a new motion for class certification.      In Oregon ( Pearson ), a state court denied plaintiff s motion for interlocutory review of the trial court s refusal to certify a class. In February 2007, PM USA filed a motion for summary judgment
based on federal preemption and the Oregon statutory exemption. In September 2007, the district court granted PM USA s motion based on express preemption under the FCLAA, and plaintiffs appealed this dismissal and the class certification denial
to the Oregon Court of Appeals. Argument was held in April 2010.      In  Cleary , which was pending in an Illinois federal court,
the district court dismissed plaintiffs   Lights  claims against one defendant and denied plaintiffs  request to remand the case to state court. In September 2009, the court issued its ruling on PM USA s and the
remaining defendants  motion for summary judgment as to all  Lights  claims. The court granted the motion as to all defendants except PM USA. As to PM USA, the court granted the motion as to all  Lights  and other low tar
brands other than  Marlboro Lights . As to  Marlboro Lights , the court ordered briefing on why the 2002 state court order dismissing the  Marlboro Lights  claims should not be vacated based upon  Good . In January 2010, the
court vacated the previous dismissal. In February 2010, the court granted summary judgment in favor of defendants as to all claims except for the  Marlboro Lights  claims, based on the statute of limitations and deficiencies relating to
the named plaintiffs. In June 2010, the court granted summary judgment in favor of all defendants on all remaining claims, dismissing the case. In July 2010, plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration with the district court, which was denied. In
August 2010, plaintiffs filed an appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.                  Other Developments:  In December 2009, the state trial court in
the  Holmes  case (pending in Delaware), denied PM USA s motion for summary judgment based on an exemption provision in the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act.      In June 2007, the United States Supreme Court reversed the lower court rulings in the  Watson  case that denied plaintiffs  motion to have the case heard in a state, as opposed to federal, trial court.
The Supreme Court rejected defendant s contention that the case must be tried in federal court under the  federal officer  statute. The case was removed to federal court in Arkansas and the case was transferred to the MDL proceeding
discussed above. In October 2010, the JPMDL denied plaintiffs  motion to remand the case to state court and to vacate the transfer order. As discussed above, on November 22, 2010, the district court in the MDL proceeding remanded the
 Watson  case to Arkansas state court.                  The Price Case:  Trial in the  Price  case commenced in state court in Illinois in January 2003, and in March 2003, the judge found in favor of the plaintiff class and
awarded $7.1 billion in compensatory damages and $3 billion in punitive damages against PM USA. In connection with the judgment, PM USA deposited into escrow various forms of collateral, including cash and negotiable instruments. In December 2005,
the Illinois Supreme Court issued its judgment, reversing the trial court s judgment in favor of the plaintiffs and directing the trial court to dismiss the case. In May 2006, the Illinois Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  motion for
re-hearing, in November 2006, the United States Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  petition for  writ of certiorari  and, in December 2006, the Circuit Court of Madison County enforced the Illinois Supreme Court s mandate and dismissed
the case with prejudice. In January 2007, plaintiffs filed a motion to vacate or withhold judgment based upon the United States Supreme Court s grant of the petition for  writ of certiorari  in  Watson  (described above). In May 2007,
PM USA filed applications for a  writ of mandamus  or a supervisory order with the Illinois Supreme Court seeking an order compelling the lower courts to deny plaintiffs  motion to vacate and/or withhold judgment. In August 2007, the
Illinois Supreme Court granted PM USA s motion for supervisory order and the trial court dismissed plaintiff s motion to vacate or withhold judgment. The collateral that PM USA deposited into escrow after the initial 2003 judgment was
released and returned to PM USA.      In December 2008, plaintiffs filed with the trial court a petition for relief from the final judgment
that was entered in favor of PM USA. Specifically, plaintiffs sought to vacate the 2005 Illinois Supreme Court judgment, contending that the United States Supreme Court s December 2008 decision in  Good  demonstrated that the Illinois
Supreme Court s decision was  inaccurate.  PM USA filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs  petition and, in February 2009, the trial court granted PM USA s motion. In March 2009, the  Price  plaintiffs filed a notice of
appeal with the Fifth Judicial District of the Appellate Court of Illinois. Argument was held in February 2010.      In June 2009, the
plaintiff in an individual smoker lawsuit ( Kelly ) brought on behalf of an alleged smoker of  Lights  cigarettes in Madison County, Illinois state court filed a motion seeking a declaration that (1) his claims under the Illinois
Consumer Fraud Act are not barred by the exemption in that statute based on his assertion that the Illinois Supreme Court s decision in  Price  is no longer good law in light of the decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court in  Good  and
 Watson , and (2) their claims are not preempted in light of the U.S. Supreme Court s decision in  Good . In September 2009, the court granted plaintiff s motion as to federal preemption, but denied it with respect to the
state statutory exemption.                  State Trial Court Class Certifications:  State trial courts have certified classes against PM USA in Massachusetts ( Aspinall ), Minnesota ( Curtis ), Missouri
( Larsen ) and New Hampshire ( Lawrence ). Significant developments in these cases include:                Aspinall:  In August 2004, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court affirmed the
class certification order. In August 2006, the trial court denied PM USA s motion for summary judgment and granted plaintiffs  motion for summary judgment on the defenses of federal preemption and a state law exemption to
Massachusetts  consumer protection statute. On motion of the parties, the trial court subsequently reported its decision to deny summary   
         67   

Table of Contents  

judgment to the appeals court for review and stayed further proceedings pending completion of the appellate review. In December 2008, subsequent to the United States Supreme Court s decision
in  Good , the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court issued an order requesting that the parties advise the court within 30 days whether the  Good  decision is dispositive of federal preemption issues pending on appeal. In January 2009, PM
USA notified the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court that  Good  is dispositive of the federal preemption issues on appeal, but requested further briefing on the state law statutory exemption issue. In March 2009, the Massachusetts Supreme
Judicial Court affirmed the order denying summary judgment to PM USA and granting the plaintiffs  cross-motion. In January 2010, plaintiffs moved for partial summary judgment as to liability claiming collateral estoppel from the findings
in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see  Federal Government s Lawsuit  described above).                Curtis:  In April 2005, the Minnesota Supreme Court denied PM USA s
petition for interlocutory review of the trial court s class certification order. In October 2009, the trial court denied plaintiffs  motion for partial summary judgment, filed in February 2009, claiming collateral estoppel from the
findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see  Federal Government s Lawsuit  described above). In October 2009, the trial court granted PM USA s motion for partial summary judgment, filed in August 2009, as to
all consumer protection counts and, in December 2009, dismissed the case in its entirety. On December 28, 2010, the Minnesota Court of Appeals reversed the trial court s dismissal of the case and affirmed the trial court s prior
certification of the class under Minnesota s consumer protection statutes. The Court of Appeals also reversed the trial court s denial of Altria Group, Inc. s motion to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction, thereby removing
Altria Group, Inc. from the case, and affirmed the trial court s denial of the plaintiffs  motion for partial summary judgment claiming collateral estoppel from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice. PM USA is
seeking further review before the Minnesota Supreme Court on January 27, 2011.                Larsen:  In August 2005, a Missouri Court of Appeals affirmed the class certification order. In December 2009, the trial court
denied plaintiff s motion for reconsideration of the period during which potential class members can qualify to become part of the class. The class period remains 1995   2003. In June 2010, PM USA s motion for partial summary judgment
regarding plaintiffs  request for punitive damages was denied. In April 2010, plaintiffs moved for partial summary judgment as to an element of liability in the case, claiming collateral estoppel from the findings in the case brought by the
Department of Justice (see  Federal Government s Lawsuit  described above). The plaintiffs  motion was denied on December 28, 2010. In July 2010, the parties stipulated to the dismissal of Altria Group, Inc. as a defendant in the
case. PM USA remains a defendant. The case is tentatively set for trial in September 2011.                Lawrence:  On November 22, 2010, the trial court certified a class consisting
of all persons who purchased  Marlboro Lights  cigarettes in the state of New Hampshire at any time from the date the brand was introduced into commerce until the date trial in the case begins. Both parties  motions for reconsideration of
this decision were denied on January 12, 2011. PM USA is seeking further review before the New Hampshire Supreme Court.       Certain Other
Tobacco-Related Litigation                   Tobacco Price Case:  As of December 31, 2010, one case remains pending in Kansas ( Smith ) in which plaintiffs allege that defendants, including PM USA and Altria
Group, Inc., conspired to fix cigarette prices in violation of antitrust laws. Plaintiffs  motion for class certification has been granted. No trial date has been set.                  Case Under the California
Business and Professions Code:  In June 1997, a lawsuit ( Brown ) was filed in California state court alleging that domestic cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA and others, have violated California Business and Professions Code
Sections 17200 and 17500 regarding unfair, unlawful and fraudulent business practices. Class certification was granted as to plaintiffs  claims that class members are entitled to reimbursement of the costs of cigarettes purchased during the
class periods and injunctive relief. In September 2004, the trial court granted defendants  motion for summary judgment as to plaintiffs  claims attacking defendants  cigarette advertising and promotion and denied defendants 
motion for summary judgment on plaintiffs  claims based on allegedly false affirmative statements. Plaintiffs  motion for rehearing was denied. In March 2005, the court granted defendants  motion to decertify the class based on a
California law, which  inter alia  limits the ability to bring a lawsuit to only those plaintiffs who have  suffered injury in fact  and  lost money or property  as a result of defendant s alleged statutory violations
( Proposition 64 ). In two July 2006 opinions, the California Supreme Court held Proposition 64 applicable to pending cases. Plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration of the order that decertified the class was denied, and plaintiffs
appealed.      In September 2006, an intermediate appellate court affirmed the trial court s order decertifying the class. In May 2009,
the California Supreme Court reversed the trial court decision that was affirmed by the appellate court and remanded the case to the trial court. Defendants filed a rehearing petition in June 2009. In August 2009, the California Supreme Court denied
defendants  rehearing petition and issued its mandate. In March 2010, the trial court granted reconsideration of its September 2004 order granting partial summary judgment to defendants with respect to plaintiffs   Lights  claims
on the basis of judicial decisions issued since its order was issued, including the United States Supreme Court s ruling in  Good , thereby reinstating plaintiffs   Lights  claims. Since the trial court s prior ruling
decertifying the class was reversed on appeal by the California Supreme   
         68   

Table of Contents  

Court, the parties and the court are treating all claims currently being asserted by the plaintiffs as certified, subject, however, to defendants  challenge to the class
representatives  standing to assert their claims. The class is defined as people who, at the time they were residents of California, smoked in California one or more cigarettes between June 10, 1993 and April 23, 2001, and who were
exposed to defendants  marketing and advertising activities in California. In July 2010, plaintiffs filed a motion seeking collateral estoppel effect from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see  Federal
Government s Lawsuit  described above). In September 2010, plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary resolution of legal issues regarding restitutionary relief. The trial court denied both of plaintiffs  motions on November 3,
2010. On November 5, 2010, defendants filed a motion seeking a determination that  Brown  class members who were also part of the class in  Daniels  (a previously disclosed consumer fraud case in which the California Supreme Court
affirmed summary judgment in PM USA s favor based on preemption and First Amendment grounds) are precluded by the  Daniels  judgment from recovering in  Brown . This motion was denied on December 15, 2010. On December 15,
2010, defendants filed a motion for a determination that the class representatives lack standing and are not typical or adequate to represent the class. Argument on this motion is set for February 23, 2011. The case is scheduled for trial in
May 2011.                  Ignition Propensity Cases:  PM USA is currently a defendant in two wrongful death actions in which plaintiffs contend that fires caused by cigarettes led to other
individuals  deaths. In one case pending in federal court in Massachusetts ( Sarro ), the district court in August 2009 granted in part PM USA s motion to dismiss, but ruled that two claims unrelated to product design could go
forward. On November 10, 2010, PM USA filed a motion for summary judgment. Argument is scheduled for March 2, 2011. In a Kentucky federal court case ( Walker ), the court dismissed plaintiffs  claims in February 2009 and
plaintiffs subsequently filed a notice of appeal. The appeal is pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Argument was held in October 2010.       UST Litigation    
          
    Types of Cases:  Claims related to smokeless tobacco products generally fall within the following categories:   
  First, UST and/or its tobacco subsidiaries has been named in certain health care cost reimbursement/third-party recoupment/class action litigation
against the major domestic cigarette companies and others seeking damages and other relief. The complaints in these cases on their face predominantly relate to the usage of cigarettes; within that context, certain complaints contain a few
allegations relating specifically to smokeless tobacco products. These actions are in varying stages of pretrial activities.      Second, UST
and/or its tobacco subsidiaries has been named in certain actions in West Virginia brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs against cigarette manufacturers, smokeless tobacco manufacturers, and other organizations seeking damages and other relief
in connection with injuries allegedly sustained as a result of tobacco usage, including smokeless tobacco products. Included among the plaintiffs are five individuals alleging use of USSTC s smokeless tobacco products and alleging the types of
injuries claimed to be associated with the use of smokeless tobacco products. While certain of these actions had not been consolidated for pretrial and trial proceedings, USSTC, along with other non-cigarette manufacturers, has remained severed from
such proceedings since December 2001.      Third, UST and/or its tobacco subsidiaries has been named in a number of other individual tobacco
and health suits. Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in these cases are based on various theories of recovery, such as negligence, strict liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, breach of implied warranty,
addiction, and breach of consumer protection statutes. Plaintiffs seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and punitive damages, and certain equitable relief, including but not limited to disgorgement. Defenses raised in these cases
include lack of causation, assumption of the risk, comparative fault and/or contributory negligence, and statutes of limitations. USSTC is currently named in an action in Florida ( Vassallo ).   
  In October 2010, in an action in Connecticut ( Hill ), USSTC entered into a settlement agreement honoring a $5 million settlement offer it made
to the plaintiff before the January 2009 acquisition of UST by Altria Group, Inc. The settlement amount was paid on November 22, 2010, concluding this litigation.       Certain Other Actions    
          
    IRS Challenges to PMCC Leases:  The IRS concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999, and issued a final Revenue Agent s Report ( RAR ) in
March 2006. The RAR disallowed tax benefits pertaining to certain PMCC LILO and SILO transactions, for the years 1996 through 1999. Altria Group, Inc. agreed with all conclusions of the RAR, with the exception of the disallowance of tax benefits
pertaining to the LILO and SILO transactions. Altria Group, Inc. contests approximately $150 million of tax and net interest assessed and paid with regard to them.      In October 2006, Altria Group, Inc. filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York to claim refunds on a portion of these tax payments and associated interest for the
years 1996 and 1997. In July 2009, the jury returned a unanimous verdict in favor of the IRS and, in April 2010, after denying Altria Group, Inc. s post-trial motions, the district court entered final judgment in favor of the IRS. Altria Group,
Inc. filed an appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in June 2010.      In March 2008, Altria Group, Inc.
filed a second complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking a refund of the tax payments and associated interest for the years 1998 and 1999 attributable to the disallowance of tax benefits claimed in
those years with respect to the leases subject to the jury verdict and with respect to certain other leases entered into in 1998 and   
         69   

Table of Contents  

1999. In May 2009, the district court granted a stay pending the decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in the case involving the 1996 and 1997 years.
     In May 2010, Altria Group, Inc. executed a closing agreement with the IRS for the 2000-2003 years, which resolved various tax matters of
Altria Group, Inc. and its former subsidiaries, with the exception of the LILO and SILO transactions. Altria Group, Inc. disputes the IRS s disallowance of tax benefits related to the LILO and SILO transactions in the 2000-2003 years. Altria
Group, Inc. intends to file a claim for refund of approximately $945 million of tax and associated interest paid in July 2010 in connection with the closing agreement, with respect to the LILO and SILO transactions that PMCC entered into during the
1996-2003 years. If the IRS disallows the claim, as anticipated, Altria Group, Inc. intends to commence litigation in federal court. Altria Group, Inc. and the IRS agreed that, with the exception of the LILO and SILO transactions, the tax treatment
reported by Altria Group, Inc. on its consolidated tax returns for the 2000-2003 years, as amended by the agreed-upon adjustments in the closing agreement, is appropriate and final. The IRS may not assess against Altria Group, Inc. any further taxes
or additions to tax (including penalties) with respect to these years.      Altria Group, Inc. further expects the IRS to challenge and
disallow tax benefits claimed in subsequent years related to the LILO and SILO transactions that PMCC entered into from 1996 through 2003. For the period January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2010, the disallowance of federal income tax and
associated interest related to the LILO and SILO transactions would be approximately $900 million, taking into account federal income tax paid or payable on gains associated with sales of leased assets during that period and excluding potential
penalties. The payment, if any, of this amount would depend upon the timing and outcome of future IRS audits and any related administrative challenges or litigation. The IRS is currently auditing the 2004   2006 years.   
  As of December 31, 2010, the LILO and SILO transactions represented approximately 41% of the Net Finance Assets of PMCC s lease portfolio.
PMCC has not entered into any LILO or SILO transactions since 2003.      Should Altria Group, Inc. not prevail in these matters, Altria
Group, Inc. may have to accelerate the payment of significant additional amounts of federal income tax, pay associated interest costs and penalties, if imposed, and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the income from the
affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year.                  Kraft Thrift Plan Case:  Four
participants in the Kraft Foods Global, Inc. Thrift Plan ( Kraft Thrift Plan ), a defined contribution plan, filed a class action complaint on behalf of all participants and beneficiaries of the Kraft Thrift Plan in July 2008 in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging breach of fiduciary duty under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ). Named defendants in this action include Altria Corporate Services, Inc. (now Altria
Client Services Inc.) and certain company committees that allegedly had a relationship to the Kraft Thrift Plan. Plaintiffs request, among other remedies, that defendants restore to the Kraft Thrift Plan all losses improperly incurred. The
Altria Group, Inc. defendants deny any violation of ERISA or other unlawful conduct and are defending the case vigorously.      In
December 2009, the court granted in part and denied in part defendants  motion to dismiss plaintiffs  complaint. In addition to dismissing certain claims made by plaintiffs for equitable relief under ERISA as to all defendants, the court
dismissed claims alleging excessive administrative fees and mismanagement of company stock funds as to one of the Altria Group, Inc. defendants. In February 2010, the court granted a joint stipulation dismissing the fee and stock fund claims without
prejudice as to the remaining defendants, including Altria Corporate Services, Inc. Accordingly, the only claim remaining at this time relates to the alleged negligence of plan fiduciaries for including the Growth Equity Fund and Balanced Fund as
Kraft Thrift Plan investment options. Plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification in March 2010, which the court granted in August 2010.      Under the terms of a Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft, the Altria Group, Inc. defendants may be entitled to indemnity against any liabilities incurred in connection with this case.
      Environmental Regulation       Altria Group, Inc. and
its subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise related to environmental protection, including, in the United
States: The Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as  Superfund ), which can impose joint and several
liability on each responsible party. Subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) of Altria Group, Inc. are involved in several matters subjecting them to potential costs of remediation and natural resource damages under Superfund or other laws and
regulations. Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in connection with environmental laws and regulations. As discussed in Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies ,
Altria Group, Inc. provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Other than those amounts, it is not possible to reasonably
estimate the cost of any environmental remediation and compliance efforts that subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. may undertake in the future. In the opinion of management, however, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including the
payment of any remediation costs or damages and the making of related expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial
position, or cash flows.   
         70   

Table of Contents  

    Guarantees       In
the ordinary course of business, certain subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. have agreed to indemnify a limited number of third parties in the event of future litigation. At December 31, 2010, subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. were also
contingently liable for $24 million of guarantees related to their own performance, consisting primarily of surety bonds. These items have not had, and are not expected to have, a significant impact on Altria Group, Inc. s liquidity.
     Under the terms of a distribution agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI, entered into as a result of the PMI spin-off,
liabilities concerning tobacco products will be allocated based in substantial part on the manufacturer. PMI will indemnify Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA for liabilities related to tobacco products manufactured by PMI or contract manufactured for
PMI by PM USA, and PM USA will indemnify PMI for liabilities related to tobacco products manufactured by PM USA, excluding tobacco products contract manufactured for PMI. Altria Group, Inc. does not have a related liability recorded on its
consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2010 as the fair value of this indemnification is insignificant.      As more fully discussed
in Note 22.  Condensed Consolidating Financial Information , PM USA has issued guarantees relating to Altria Group, Inc. s obligations under its outstanding debt securities, borrowings under its Revolving Credit Agreements and amounts
outstanding under its commercial paper program.       Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest       In September 2007, UST completed the acquisition of Stag s Leap Wine Cellars through one of its consolidated subsidiaries, Michelle-Antinori, LLC ( Michelle-Antinori ), in which UST holds an 85%
ownership interest with a 15% noncontrolling interest held by Antinori California ( Antinori ). In connection with the acquisition of Stag s Leap Wine Cellars, UST entered into a put arrangement with Antinori. The put arrangement, as
later amended, provides Antinori with the right to require UST to purchase its 15% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori at a price equal to Antinori s initial investment of $27 million. The put arrangement became exercisable on
September 11, 2010 and has no expiration date. As of December 31, 2010, the redemption value of the put arrangement did not exceed the noncontrolling interest balance. Therefore, no adjustment to the value of the redeemable noncontrolling
interest was recognized in the consolidated balance sheet for the put arrangement.      The noncontrolling interest put arrangement is
accounted for as mandatorily redeemable securities because redemption is outside of the control of UST. As such, the redeemable noncontrolling interest is reported in the mezzanine equity section in the consolidated balance sheets at
December 31, 2010 and 2009.   

    Note 22.        
      Condensed Consolidating Financial Information:   
  PM USA has issued guarantees relating to Altria Group, Inc. s obligations under its outstanding debt securities, borrowings under its Revolving Credit
Agreements and amounts outstanding under its commercial paper program (the  Guarantees ). Pursuant to the Guarantees, PM USA fully and unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor, the payment and performance of Altria Group, Inc. s
obligations under the guaranteed debt instruments (the  Obligations ).      The Guarantees provide that PM USA fully and
unconditionally guarantees the punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of the Obligations. The liability of PM USA under the Guarantees is absolute and unconditional irrespective of: any lack of validity,
enforceability or genuineness of any provision of any agreement or instrument relating thereto; any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Obligations, or any other amendment or waiver of or any
consent to departure from any agreement or instrument relating thereto; any exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any other guarantee, for all or any of the
Obligations; or any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, Altria Group, Inc. or PM USA.      The obligations of PM USA under the Guarantees are limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of PM USA that are relevant under
Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to the Guarantees, result in PM USA s obligations under the Guarantees not constituting a
fraudulent transfer or conveyance. For this purpose,  Bankruptcy Law  means Title 11, U.S. Code, or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.      PM USA will be unconditionally released and discharged from its obligations under each of the Guarantees upon the earliest to occur of:               the date, if any, on which PM USA consolidates
with or merges into Altria Group, Inc. or any successor;               the date, if any, on which Altria Group, Inc. or any successor consolidates with or merges into PM USA;   
           the
 payment in full of the Obligations pertaining to such Guarantees; or               the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt by Standard   Poor s of A or higher.   
         71   

Table of Contents  

   At December 31, 2010, the respective principal wholly-owned subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc.
and PM USA were not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their common stock.      The following sets forth the condensed consolidating balance sheets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, condensed consolidating statements of earnings for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
and condensed consolidating statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 for Altria Group, Inc., PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. s other subsidiaries that are not guarantors of Altria Group, Inc. s debt
instruments (the  Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries ). The financial information is based on Altria Group, Inc. s understanding of the SEC interpretation and application of Rule 3-10 of SEC Regulation S-X.   
  The financial information may not necessarily be indicative of results of operations or financial position had PM USA and the Non-Guarantor
Subsidiaries operated as independent entities. Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA account for investments in their subsidiaries under the equity method of accounting.       
  Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets      (in millions of dollars)

72   

Table of Contents  

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets   (continued)        (in millions of dollars)         

73   

Table of Contents  

   Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets      (in millions of dollars)       
 
         74   

Table of Contents  

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets   (continued)        (in millions of dollars)         

75   

Table of Contents  

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Earnings      (in millions of dollars)       
    Condensed Consolidating Statements of Earnings   
  (in millions of dollars)       
 
         76   

Table of Contents  

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Earnings      (in millions of dollars)       
 
         77   

Table of Contents  

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows      (in millions of dollars)       
 
         78   

Table of Contents  

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows      (in millions of dollars)       
 
         79   

Table of Contents  

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows      (in millions of dollars)       
 
         80   

Table of Contents  

Note 23.        
      Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited):   

81   

Table of Contents  

   During 2010 and 2009, the following pre-tax charges or (gains) were included in net earnings
attributable to Altria Group, Inc.:       
    As discussed in Note 16.  Income Taxes , Altria Group,
Inc. has recognized income tax benefits in the consolidated statements of earnings during 2010 and 2009 as a result of various tax events.   
         82   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of   
  Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Description of the Company       At December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. s wholly-owned subsidiaries included Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and certain smokeless
products in the United States; UST LLC ( UST ), which through its subsidiaries is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless products and wine; and John Middleton Co. ( Middleton ), which is engaged in the manufacture and
sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco. Philip Morris Capital Corporation ( PMCC ), another wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc., maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct finance leases. In addition, Altria Group,
Inc. held a 27.1% economic and voting interest in SABMiller plc ( SABMiller ) at December 31, 2010. Altria Group, Inc. s access to the operating cash flows of its wholly-owned subsidiaries consists of cash received from the
payment of dividends and distributions, and the payment of interest on intercompany loans by its subsidiaries. In addition, Altria Group, Inc. receives cash dividends on its interest in SABMiller, if and when SABMiller pays such dividends on
its stock.      As discussed in Note 3.  UST Acquisition  to the consolidated financial statements ( Note 3 ), on
January 6, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding common stock of UST, whose direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries include U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC ( USSTC ) and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd.
( Ste. Michelle ). As a result of the acquisition, UST has become an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc.   
  The products and services of Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries constitute Altria Group, Inc. s reportable segments of cigarettes,
smokeless products, cigars, wine and financial services.      On March 28, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its interest
in Philip Morris International Inc. ( PMI ) to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 19, 2008 in a tax-free distribution. For a further discussion of the PMI spin-off, see Note 1.  Background
and Basis of Presentation  to the consolidated financial statements ( Note 1 ).       Executive Summary    
  The following executive summary is intended to provide significant highlights of the Discussion and Analysis that follows.   
   Consolidated Results of Operations : The changes in Altria Group, Inc. s net earnings and diluted earnings per share ( EPS )
attributable to Altria Group, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2010, from the year ended December 31, 2009, were due primarily to the following:       
    See discussion of events affecting the comparability of statement of earnings
amounts in the Consolidated Operating Results section of the following Discussion and Analysis.       Change in tax rate : Excluding the
2010 and 2009 tax items, the lower effective tax rate on operations in 2010 was due primarily to an increase in the domestic manufacturing deduction effective January 1, 2010.   
   Operations : The increase of $251 million shown in the table above was due primarily to the following:   
           Higher
 income from the cigarettes and smokeless products segments; and               Higher earnings from Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller;   
         83   

Table of Contents  

   partially offset by:               Lower income from the financial services
segment; and               Higher interest expense (after excluding 2009 financing fees, related to the acquisition of UST) due primarily to the issuance of senior unsecured long-term notes in February 2009 related to
financing for the acquisition of UST.       For further details, see the Consolidated Operating Results and Operating Results by Business Segment
sections of the following Discussion and Analysis.        2011 Forecasted Results : In January 2011, Altria Group, Inc. forecasted
that its 2011 full-year reported diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $2.00 to $2.06. This forecast includes estimated net charges of $0.01 per share as detailed in the table below, as compared with 2010 full-year reported diluted EPS of
$1.87, which included $0.03 per share of net charges, as detailed in the table below. Expected 2011 full-year adjusted diluted EPS, which excludes the charges in the table below, represent a growth rate of 6% to 9% over 2010 full-year adjusted
diluted EPS.      The business environment for 2011 is likely to remain challenging, as adult consumers remain under economic pressure and
face high unemployment. Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco operating companies face a number of uncertainties in 2011. In the cigarettes segment, PM USA is continuing to see significant competitive activity and is cautious about the outlook for state
excise tax increases. In the smokeless products segment, USSTC is just beginning to execute its plans for  Skoal , including the introduction of ten new products nationally in the first quarter of 2011 and other brand-building initiatives. In
the cigars segment, Middleton faces an especially challenging business environment in the aftermath of the 2009 federal excise tax ( FET ) increase on tobacco products. Due to these factors, as well as cigarette trade inventory movements
and the timing of new tobacco product launches in 2010, Altria Group, Inc. expects the first half of 2011 to be more challenging for income growth comparison purposes than the second half of 2011. Altria Group, Inc. expects adjusted diluted EPS
growth to build and accelerate as the year progresses. The factors described in the  Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results  section of the following  Discussion and Analysis  represent continuing risks to this forecast.
      Net Charges Included In Reported Diluted EPS        
    * Includes estimated gains on sales of land and buildings   
  Adjusted diluted EPS is a financial measure that is not consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
( U.S. GAAP ). Certain income and expense items that management believes are not part of underlying operations are excluded from adjusted diluted EPS because such items can obscure underlying business trends. Management believes it is
appropriate to disclose this non-GAAP financial measure to help investors analyze underlying business performance and trends. This adjusted measure is regularly provided to Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker for use in the
evaluation of segment performance and allocation of resources. This information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in
accordance with U.S. GAAP.       Discussion and Analysis       Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates      Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  to the
consolidated financial statements includes a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements. In most instances, Altria Group, Inc. must use an
accounting policy or method because it is the only policy or method permitted under U.S. GAAP.      The preparation of financial statements
includes the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenues and expenses during
the reporting periods. If actual amounts are ultimately different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations for the period in which the actual amounts become known.
Historically, the aggregate differences, if any, between Altria Group, Inc. s estimates and actual amounts in any year have not had a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements.   
  The following is a review of the more significant assumptions and estimates, as well as the accounting policies and methods used in the preparation
of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements:                        Consolidation    :    The consolidated financial statements include Altria Group, Inc., as
well as its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries. Investments in which Altria Group, Inc. exercises significant influence (20%-50% ownership interest) are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. All intercompany transactions and
balances have been eliminated. The results of PMI prior to the PMI spin-off have been reflected as discontinued operations on the consolidated statement of earnings and statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2008. For a further
discussion of the PMI spin-off, see Note 1.   
             
       Revenue Recognition    :    The consumer products businesses recognize revenues, net of sales incentives and sales returns, and including shipping and handling charges billed to customers, upon
shipment or delivery of goods when title and risk of loss pass to customers. Payments received in advance of revenue recognition are deferred and recorded in other accrued liabilities until revenue is recognized. Altria Group, Inc. s consumer
products businesses also include excise taxes   
         84   

Table of Contents  

billed to customers in net revenues. Shipping and handling costs are classified as part of cost of sales.                  Depreciation, Amortization and
Intangible Asset Valuation:  Altria Group, Inc. depreciates property, plant and equipment, and amortizes its definite-lived intangible assets using the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.   
  Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded by Altria Group, Inc. at December 31, 2010 relate primarily to the acquisitions of UST
in 2009 (see Note 3) and Middleton in 2007. As required, Altria Group, Inc. conducts a review of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment annually, and more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that
would require Altria Group, Inc. to perform an interim review.      Goodwill impairment testing requires a comparison between the carrying
value and fair value of each reporting unit. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, goodwill is considered impaired. The amount of impairment loss is measured as the difference between the carrying value and implied fair value of goodwill,
which is determined using discounted cash flows. Impairment testing for indefinite-lived intangible assets requires a comparison between the fair value and carrying value of the intangible asset. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, the
intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value.      Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, by reporting unit
at December 31, 2010 were as follows:       
    During 2010, 2009 and 2008, Altria Group, Inc. completed its
annual review of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and no impairment charges resulted from these reviews.      In 2010, Altria
Group, Inc. utilized an income approach to estimate the fair value of its reporting units and its indefinite-lived intangible assets. The income approach reflects the discounting of expected future cash flows to their present value at a rate of
return that incorporates the risk-free rate for the use of those funds, the expected rate of inflation, and the risks associated with realizing expected future cash flows. The average discount rate utilized in performing the valuations was 10%.
     In performing a discounted cash flow analysis, Altria Group, Inc. makes various judgments, estimates and assumptions, the most
significant of which are future volume, income, growth rates, and discount rates. The analysis incorporates the assumptions in Altria Group, Inc. s long-term financial forecast. Assumptions are also made for perpetual growth rates for periods
beyond the long-term financial forecast. Fair value calculations are sensitive to changes in these estimates and assumptions, some of which relate to broader macroeconomic conditions outside of Altria Group, Inc. s control.   
  At December 31, 2010 the estimated fair values of the smokeless products, cigars and wine reporting units, as well as the indefinite-lived
intangible assets within those reporting units, substantially exceeded their carrying values. While Altria Group, Inc. s management believes that the estimated fair values of each reporting unit and indefinite-lived intangible asset is
reasonable, actual performance in the short-term or long-term could be significantly different from forecasted performance, which could result in impairment charges in future periods.   
  Although Altria Group, Inc. s discounted cash flow analysis is based on assumptions that are (i) considered reasonable;
(ii) consistent with Altria Group, Inc. s long-term financial planning process; and (iii) based on the best available information at the time that the discounted cash flow analysis is developed, there is significant judgment used in
determining future cash flows. The following factors have the most potential to impact expected future cash flows and, therefore, Altria Group, Inc. s impairment conclusions: general economic conditions, regulatory developments, changes in
category growth rates as a result of changing consumer preferences, success of planned new product introductions, competitive activity, and tobacco-related taxes. For additional information on goodwill and other intangible assets, see Note 5.
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net  to the consolidated financial statements.                  Marketing Costs:  Altria Group, Inc. s consumer products businesses promote their products with consumer engagement
programs, consumer incentives and trade promotions. Such programs include, but are not limited to, discounts, coupons, rebates, in-store display incentives, event marketing and volume-based incentives. Consumer engagement programs are expensed as
incurred. Consumer incentive and trade promotion activities are recorded as a reduction of revenues based on amounts estimated as being due to customers and consumers at the end of a period, based principally on historical utilization and redemption
rates. For interim reporting purposes, consumer engagement programs and certain consumer incentive expenses are charged to operations as a percentage of sales, based on estimated sales and related expenses for the full year.   
          
    Contingencies:  As discussed in Note 21.  Contingencies  to the consolidated financial statements ( Note 21 ), and Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  to Altria Group, Inc. s 2010 Form 10-K ( Item
3 ), legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including PM USA and UST and its subsidiaries, as well as
their respective indemnitees. In 1998, PM USA and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers entered into the Master Settlement Agreement (the  MSA ) with 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions to settle asserted
and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. PM USA and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought   
         85   

Table of Contents  

by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (together with the MSA, the  State Settlement Agreements ). PM USA s portion of ongoing adjusted payments and legal fees is based on
its relative share of the settling manufacturers  domestic cigarette shipments, including roll-your-own cigarettes, in the year preceding that in which the payment is due. PM USA also entered into a trust agreement to provide certain aid to
U.S. tobacco growers and quota holders, but PM USA s obligations under this trust expired on December 15, 2010 (these obligations had been offset by the obligations imposed on PM USA by the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004
( FETRA ), which expires in 2014). USSTC and Middleton are also subject to obligations imposed by FETRA. In addition, in June 2009, PM USA and a subsidiary of USSTC became subject to quarterly user fees imposed by the United States Food
and Drug Administration ( FDA ) as a result of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act ( FSPTCA ). The State Settlement Agreements, FETRA, and the FDA user fees call for payments that are based on variable factors,
such as volume, market share and inflation, depending on the subject payment. Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries account for the cost of the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user fees as a component of cost of sales. As a result of the
State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user fees, Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries recorded charges to cost of sales of approximately $5.0 billion, $5.0 billion and $5.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. See Note 21 and Item 3 for a discussion of proceedings that may result in a downward adjustment of amounts paid under the State Settlement Agreements for the years 2003 to 2009.   
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when they determine that
an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Except as discussed in Note 21 and Item 3, at the present time, while it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur,
(i) management has concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable
outcome in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for unfavorable outcomes, if any. Legal defense costs are expensed as incurred.

Employee Benefit Plans:  As discussed in Note 18.  Benefit Plans  to the consolidated financial statements ( Note 18 ), Altria Group, Inc. provides a range of benefits to its employees and retired employees,
including pensions, postretirement health care and postemployment benefits (primarily severance). Altria Group, Inc. records annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by U.S. GAAP, which include various actuarial
assumptions, such as discount rates, assumed rates of return on plan assets, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. Altria Group, Inc. reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to
the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate to do so. Any effect of the modifications is generally amortized over future periods.      Altria Group, Inc. recognizes the funded status of its defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans on the consolidated balance sheet and records as a component of other comprehensive earnings (losses),
net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost.      At December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. s discount rate assumptions for its pension and postretirement plans decreased to 5.5% from 5.9% and 5.8%, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Altria Group,
Inc. presently anticipates an increase of approximately $50 million in its 2011 pre-tax pension and postretirement expense. This anticipated increase is due primarily to an increase in the amortization of deferred losses, as well as the discount
rate changes, partially offset by a $200 million voluntary pension plan contribution made in January 2011. A fifty basis point decrease (increase) in Altria Group, Inc. s discount rates would increase (decrease) Altria Group, Inc. s
pension and postretirement expense by approximately $40 million. Similarly, a fifty basis point decrease (increase) in the expected return on plan assets would increase (decrease) Altria Group, Inc. s pension expense by approximately $26
million. See Note 18 for a sensitivity discussion of the assumed health care cost trend rates.   
             
     Income Taxes:  Altria Group, Inc. s deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted tax rates in
effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions.      Altria Group, Inc. recognizes a benefit for uncertain tax positions when a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities.
The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.      Altria Group, Inc. recognizes accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of the provision for income taxes on its consolidated statements of earnings.   
  As discussed in Note 16.  Income Taxes  to the consolidated financial statements ( Note 16 ), Altria Group, Inc. recognized income
tax benefits in the consolidated statements of earnings during 2010, 2009 and 2008 as a result of various tax events.                  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets:  Altria Group, Inc. reviews
long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Altria Group, Inc. performs undiscounted
operating cash flow analyses to determine if an impairment exists. These analyses are affected by general economic conditions and projected growth rates. For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment for assets held for use, Altria
Group, Inc. groups assets and   
         86   

Table of Contents  

liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identifiable. If an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value.
Impairment losses on assets to be disposed of, if any, are based on the estimated proceeds to be received, less costs of disposal. Altria Group, Inc. also reviews the estimated remaining useful lives of long-lived assets whenever events or changes
in business circumstances indicate the lives may have changed.   
          
    Leasing:  Approximately 99% of PMCC s net revenues in 2010 related to leveraged leases. Income relating to leveraged leases is recorded initially as unearned income, which is included in the line item finance assets, net,
on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets, and is subsequently recognized as revenue over the terms of the respective leases at constant after-tax rates of return on the positive net investment balances. The remainder of PMCC s
net revenues consists primarily of amounts related to direct finance leases, with income initially recorded as unearned and subsequently recognized as revenue over the terms of the respective leases at constant pre-tax rates of return on the net
investment balances. As discussed in Note 9.  Finance Assets, net  to the consolidated financial statements ( Note 9 ), certain PMCC lessees were affected by bankruptcy filings, credit rating downgrades and financial market
conditions.      PMCC s investment in leases is included in the line item finance assets, net, on the consolidated balance sheets as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009. At December 31, 2010, PMCC s net finance receivables of approximately $4.4 billion in leveraged leases, which is included in finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheet,
consisted of rents receivable ($13.0 billion) and the residual value of assets under lease ($1.3 billion), reduced by third-party nonrecourse debt ($8.3 billion) and unearned income ($1.6 billion). The repayment of the nonrecourse debt is
collateralized by lease payments receivable and the leased property, and is nonrecourse to the general assets of PMCC. As required by U.S. GAAP, the third-party nonrecourse debt has been offset against the related rents receivable and has been
presented on a net basis within finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets. Finance assets, net, at December 31, 2010, also included net finance receivables for direct finance leases ($0.3 billion) and an
allowance for losses ($0.2 billion).      Estimated residual values represent PMCC s estimate at lease inception as to the fair values
of assets under lease at the end of the non-cancelable lease terms. The estimated residual values are reviewed annually by PMCC s management, which includes analysis of a number of factors, including activity in the relevant industry. If
necessary, revisions are recorded to reduce the residual values. Such reviews resulted in a decrease of $11 million to PMCC s net revenues and results of operations in 2010. There were no adjustments in 2009 and 2008.   
  PMCC considers rents receivable past due when they are beyond the grace period of their contractual due date. PMCC ceases recording income
( non-accrual status ) on rents receivable when contractual payments become 90 days past due or earlier if management believes there is significant uncertainty of collectability of rent payments, and resumes recording income when
collectability of rent payments is reasonably certain. Payments received on rents receivable that are on non-accrual status are used to reduce the rents receivable balance. Write-offs to the allowance for losses are recorded when amounts are deemed
to be uncollectible. There were no rents receivable on non-accrual status at December 31, 2010.      To the extent that rents receivable
due to PMCC may be uncollectible, PMCC records an allowance for losses against its finance assets. Losses on such leases are recorded when probable and estimable. PMCC regularly performs a systematic assessment of each individual lease in its
portfolio to determine potential credit or collection issues that might indicate impairment. Impairment takes into consideration both the probability of default and the likelihood of recovery if default were to occur. PMCC considers both
quantitative and qualitative factors of each investment when performing its assessment of the allowance for losses.      Quantitative factors
that indicate potential default are tied most directly to public debt ratings. PMCC monitors all publicly available information on its obligors, including financial statements and credit rating agency reports. Qualitative factors that indicate the
likelihood of recovery if default were to occur include, but are not limited to, underlying collateral value, other forms of credit support, and legal/structural considerations impacting each lease. Using all available information, PMCC calculates
potential losses for each lease in its portfolio based on its default and recovery assumption for each lease. The aggregate of these potential losses forms a range of potential losses which is used as a guideline to determine the adequacy of
PMCC s allowance for losses.   
         87   

Table of Contents  

    Consolidated Operating Results       See pages 108   111 for a discussion of Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results.       
    As discussed further in Note 17.  Segment Reporting  to
the consolidated financial statements, Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker reviews operating companies income, which is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles, to evaluate
segment performance and allocate resources. Management believes it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze the business performance and trends of the various business segments.   
  The following events that occurred during 2010, 2009 and 2008 affected the comparability of statement of earnings amounts.   
          
    UST Acquisition:  In January 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST, the results of which are reflected in the smokeless products and wine segments (see Note 3).                  Asset Impairment, Exit,
Implementation and Integration Costs:  Pre-tax asset impairment, exit, implementation and integration costs for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 consisted of the following:   

For further details on asset impairment, exit, implementation and integration
costs, see Note 6.  Asset Impairment ,  Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs  to the consolidated financial statements ( Note 6 ).   
         88   

Table of Contents  

   Altria Group, Inc. continues to have company-wide cost management programs, which include the largely
completed restructuring programs discussed in Note 6. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. achieved $317 million in cost savings for a total cost savings of $1,355 million since January 1, 2007. Altria Group, Inc.
expects to achieve approximately $145 million in additional cost savings by the end of 2011 for total anticipated cost reductions of $1.5 billion versus 2006, as shown in the table below.   
   
        Altria Group, Inc. has generated approximately $300 million in UST integration cost savings as of December 31, 2010. These integration cost savings are included primarily in the  General corporate expense
and selling, general and administrative  line item above.      Capital expenditures for PM USA s manufacturing optimization
program, as discussed in Note 6, were completed during 2010. Capital expenditures for the program of $3 million were made during the year ended December 31, 2010, for a total of $210 million since the inception of the program in 2007.
     Altria Group, Inc. had a severance liability balance of $26 million at December 31, 2010 related to its restructuring programs,
which is expected to be substantially paid out by the end of 2011.   
          
    UST Acquisition-Related Costs:  In connection with the acquisition of UST, Altria Group, Inc. incurred pre-tax charges consisting of the following:               Transaction costs of $60 million, incurred in
the first quarter of 2009, which consisted primarily of investment banking and legal fees. These amounts are included in marketing, administration and research costs on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings.   
           Cost
 of sales as shown in the table below, relating to the fair value purchase accounting adjustment of UST s inventory at the acquisition date that was sold during the periods:   

Financing fees of $91 million and $58 million, during 2009 and 2008, respectively, for borrowing facilities related to the acquisition of
UST. These amounts are included in interest and other debt expense, net on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings.                  SABMiller Special Items:  Altria Group, Inc. s earnings from its
equity investment in SABMiller for the year ended December 31, 2010 included costs for SABMiller s transaction to promote sustainable economic and social development in South Africa, and costs for SABMiller s  business capability
programme.  Altria Group, Inc. s earnings from its equity investment in SABMiller for the year ended December 31, 2009 included gains on the issuance of 60 million shares of common stock by SABMiller in connection with its
acquisition of the remaining noncontrolling interest in its Polish subsidiary, partially offset by intangible asset impairment charges and costs for SABMiller s  business capability programme.  Altria Group, Inc. s earnings from
its equity investment in SABMiller for the year ended December 31, 2008 included intangible asset impairment charges.                  Sales to PMI:  Subsequent to the PMI spin-off, PM USA recorded net
revenues of $298 million, from contract volume manufactured for PMI under an agreement that terminated in the fourth quarter of 2008. For periods prior to the PMI spin-off, PM USA did not record contract volume manufactured for PMI in net revenues,
but recorded the related profit, which was immaterial for the year ended December 31, 2008, in marketing, administration and research costs on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings. These amounts are reflected in the
cigarettes segment.                  PMCC Allowance for Losses:  During 2009, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $15 million based on management s assessment of its portfolio, including its exposure to
General Motors Corporation ( GM ). During 2008, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $100 million, primarily as a result of credit rating downgrades of certain lessees and financial market conditions (see Note 9).   
          
    Gain on Sale of Corporate Headquarters Building:  In March 2008, Altria Group, Inc. sold its corporate headquarters building in New York City for $525 million and recorded a pre-tax gain on sale of $404 million.   
          
    Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt:  In connection with the spin-off of PMI in the first quarter of 2008, Altria Group, Inc. recorded a pre-tax loss of $393 million on the early extinguishment of debt. See Note 11.
 Long-Term Debt  to the consolidated financial statements ( Note 11 ).                  Tax Items:  The tax provision in 2010 includes tax benefits of $216 million from the reversal of tax reserves and
associated interest resulting from the execution of a closing   
         89   

Table of Contents  

agreement during 2010 with the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) discussed in Note 16. The tax provision in 2010 also includes tax benefits of $64 million from the reversal of tax
reserves and associated interest following the resolution of several state audits and the expiration of statutes of limitations. The tax provision in 2009 includes tax benefits of $88 million from the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest
resulting from the execution of a closing agreement during 2009 with the IRS discussed in Note 16. The tax provision in 2009 also includes a benefit of $53 million from the utilization of net operating losses. The tax provision in 2008 includes net
tax benefits of $58 million primarily from the reversal of tax accruals no longer required.      As further discussed in Note 16, tax benefits of $169
million and $88 million related to the execution of the closing agreements with the IRS in 2010 and 2009, respectively, for the resolution of Kraft Foods Inc. ( Kraft ) and PMI tax matters were offset by a reduction to the corresponding
receivables from Kraft and PMI, which were recorded as reductions to operating income on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings. As a result, there was no impact to Altria Group, Inc. s net earnings associated with the
resolution of the Kraft and PMI tax matters.                  Discontinued Operations:  As a result of the PMI spin-off, which is more fully discussed in Note 1, Altria Group, Inc. has reclassified and reflected the results of PMI prior to
the spin-off as discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of earnings and the consolidated statements of cash flows.        2010 compared
with 2009        The following discussion compares consolidated operating results for the year ended December 31, 2010, with the year ended
December 31, 2009.      Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $807 million (3.4%), reflecting higher
pricing related primarily to the April 1, 2009 FET increase on tobacco products and higher smokeless products volume, partially offset by lower cigarettes volume and lower revenues from financial services.   
  Excise taxes on products increased $739 million (11.0%), due primarily to the impact of the FET increase, partially offset by lower cigarettes
volume.      Cost of sales decreased $286 million (3.6%), due primarily to lower cigarettes volume, lower manufacturing costs and lower
implementation costs, partially offset by higher user fees imposed by the FDA and higher per unit settlement charges.      Marketing,
administration and research costs decreased $108 million (3.8%), due primarily to UST acquisition-related transaction costs during the first quarter of 2009, lower marketing, administration and research costs for the smokeless products segment
reflecting the cost reduction initiatives discussed above, and lower integration costs, partially offset by higher product liability defense costs in the cigarettes segment.   
  Operating income increased $766 million (14.0%), due primarily to higher operating results from the smokeless products and cigarettes segments
(which included lower asset impairment, exit, integration and implementation costs in 2010), lower corporate asset impairment and exit costs, and UST acquisition-related transaction costs in 2009. These increases were partially offset by lower
operating results from the financial services segment as well as a higher reduction of Kraft and PMI tax-related receivables in 2010. As discussed in Note 16, the reduction of the Kraft and PMI tax-related receivables was fully offset by a tax
benefit associated with Kraft and PMI.      Interest and other debt expense, net, decreased $52 million (4.4%), due primarily to financing
fees of $91 million in 2009 related to the acquisition of UST, partially offset by higher interest expense resulting from the issuance of senior unsecured long-term notes in February 2009 related to financing for the UST acquisition.   
  Earnings from Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller increased $28 million (4.7%), due primarily to intangible asset
impairment charges in 2009 and higher ongoing equity earnings in 2010, partially offset by lower gains associated with the issuances of common stock by SABMiller and costs in 2010 for SABMiller s transaction to promote sustainable economic and
social development in South Africa.      Altria Group, Inc. s effective income tax rate decreased 2.5 percentage points to 31.7%, due
primarily to the higher reversal of tax reserves and associated interest in 2010 resulting from the execution of a closing agreement during 2010 with the IRS and the resolution of several state audits, and the expiration of statutes of limitations,
as well as an increase in the domestic manufacturing deduction, effective January 1, 2010. For further discussion, see Note 16.      Net
earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. of $3,905 million increased $699 million (21.8%), due primarily to higher operating income, a lower income tax rate and lower interest and other debt expense, net. Diluted and basic EPS from net earnings
attributable to Altria Group, Inc. of $1.87, increased by 21.4% and 20.6%, respectively.        2009 compared with 2008     
  The following discussion compares consolidated operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009, with the year ended December 31, 2008.   
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $4,200 million (21.7%), due primarily to higher revenues from the
cigarettes, cigars and financial services segments, and the acquisition of UST in 2009. Cigarettes and cigars revenues increased, reflecting higher pricing related primarily to the FET increase on tobacco products, partially offset by lower volume.
In addition, 2008 net revenues included contract volume manufactured for PMI under an agreement that terminated in the fourth quarter of 2008.      Excise taxes on products increased $3,333 million (98.1%), due primarily to the impact of the FET increase and the acquisition of UST, partially offset by lower volume in the cigarettes segment.   
         90   

Table of Contents  

   Cost of sales decreased $280 million (3.4%), due primarily to lower cigarettes volume and the
termination of contract volume manufactured for PMI, partially offset by the acquisition of UST and higher direct material and manufacturing costs.      Marketing, administration and research costs increased $90 million (3.3%), due primarily to the acquisition of UST (including transaction and integration costs), partially offset by lower marketing, administration
and research costs in the cigarettes segment, a lower increase to the allowance for losses in the financial services segment and lower general corporate expenses. The lower marketing, administration and research costs in the cigarettes segment and
lower general corporate expenses reflect the cost reduction initiatives discussed above.      Operating income increased $580 million
(11.9%), due primarily to higher operating results from the cigarettes, financial services and cigars segments, the acquisition of UST in 2009, lower corporate asset impairment and exit costs, and lower general corporate expenses, partially offset
by the gain in 2008 on the sale of the corporate headquarters building, UST acquisition-related transaction costs and the reduction of a Kraft tax-related receivable. As discussed in Note 16, the reduction of the Kraft tax-related receivable was
fully offset by a tax benefit associated with Kraft.      Interest and other debt expense, net, increased $1,018 million (100+%), due
primarily to the issuance of senior unsecured long-term notes in November and December 2008, and February 2009 to finance the UST acquisition.      Earnings from Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller increased $133 million (28.5%), due primarily to gains resulting from the issuances of common stock by SABMiller and higher ongoing equity
earnings, partially offset by higher intangible asset impairment charges and costs for the previously mentioned  business capability programme  in 2009.      Altria Group, Inc. s effective income tax rate decreased 1.3 percentage points to 34.2%, due primarily to the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest resulting from the execution of a closing
agreement during 2009 with the IRS discussed in Note 16 and the utilization of net operating losses.      Earnings from continuing
operations of $3,208 million increased $118 million (3.8%), due primarily to higher operating income, a loss in 2008 on the early extinguishment of debt in connection with the PMI spin-off, higher earnings from Altria Group, Inc. s equity
investment in SABMiller and lower income taxes, partially offset by higher interest and other debt expense, net. Diluted and basic EPS from continuing operations of $1.54 and $1.55, respectively, increased by 4.1% and 4.0%, respectively.   
  Earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes decreased $1,901 million, reflecting the spin-off of PMI in the first quarter of 2008.
     Net earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. of $3,206 million decreased $1,724 million (35.0%). Diluted and basic EPS from net
earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. of $1.54 and $1.55, respectively, decreased by 34.7% and 34.6%, respectively. These decreases reflect the spin-off of PMI in the first quarter of 2008.   
   Operating Results by Business Segment        Tobacco Space
       Business Environment         Taxes,
Legislation, Regulation and Other Matters Regarding Tobacco and Tobacco Use        The United States tobacco industry faces a number of challenges that
may adversely affect the business and sales volume of our tobacco subsidiaries and our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and financial position. These challenges, which are discussed below and in  Cautionary Factors That May Affect
Future Results,  include:               pending and threatened litigation and bonding requirements as discussed in Note 21 and Item                restrictions imposed by the FSPTCA enacted in
June 2009, restrictions that have been, and in the future may be, imposed by the FDA under this statute, other actual and proposed restrictions affecting tobacco product manufacturing, design, packaging, marketing, advertising and sales and
enforcement policies and practices pursued by the FDA;               competitive disadvantages related to cigarette price increases attributable to the settlement of certain litigation;   
           actual
 and proposed excise tax increases, as well as changes in tax structures and tax stamping requirements;               the sale of counterfeit tobacco products by third parties;   
           the
 sale of tobacco products by third parties over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid the collection of applicable taxes;               diversion into one market of products intended for sale in another;   
           price
 gaps and changes in price gaps between premium and lowest price brands;               the potential assertion of claims and other issues relating to contraband shipments of tobacco products;   
           governmental
 investigations;               governmental and private bans and restrictions on tobacco use;               governmental restrictions on the sale of tobacco products by certain retail
establishments, the use of characterizing flavors and the sale of tobacco products in certain packing sizes;               the diminishing prevalence of cigarette smoking and increased efforts by tobacco control
advocates to further restrict tobacco use;   
         91   

Table of Contents  

governmental
 requirements setting ignition propensity standards for cigarettes;               potential adverse changes in tobacco leaf price, availability and quality; and   
           other
 actual and proposed tobacco product legislation and regulation.      In the ordinary course of business, our tobacco subsidiaries are
subject to many influences that can impact the timing of sales to customers, including the timing of holidays and other annual or special events, the timing of promotions, customer incentive programs and customer inventory programs, as well as the
actual or speculated timing of pricing actions and tax-driven price increases.                  Excise Taxes:  Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States. Significant increases in
tobacco-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted at the federal, state and local levels within the United States.   
  Federal, state and local excise taxes have increased substantially over the past decade, far outpacing the rate of inflation. For example, in 2009,
the FET on cigarettes increased from 39 cents per pack to approximately $1.01 per pack and on July 1, 2010, the New York state excise tax increased $1.60 to $4.35 per pack. Between the end of 1998 and the end of 2010, the weighted year-end
average state and certain local cigarette excise taxes increased from $0.36 to $1.36 per pack. Six states enacted cigarette excise tax increases in 2010. No state excise tax increases have been enacted to date in 2011.   
  Tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of tobacco products by our tobacco subsidiaries, due to lower consumption
levels and to a potential shift in consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products.   
  A majority of states currently tax smokeless tobacco products using an  ad valorem  method, which is calculated as a percentage of the
price of the product, typically the wholesale price. This  ad valorem  method results in more tax being paid on premium products than is paid on lower-priced products of equal weight. Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries support legislation
to convert  ad valorem  taxes on smokeless tobacco to a weight-based methodology because, unlike the  ad valorem  tax, a weight-based tax results in cans of equal weight paying the same tax. As of February 18, 2011, twenty states,
Washington, D.C. and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania have adopted and implemented a weight-based tax methodology for smokeless tobacco.                  FDA Regulation:    
   General       The FSPTCA provides the FDA with authority to
regulate the design, manufacture, packaging, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of cigarettes, cigarette tobacco and smokeless tobacco products and the authority to require disclosures of related information. The law also grants the FDA
authority to extend its application, by regulation, to other tobacco products, including cigars. The FDA has indicated that regulation of cigars is on its agenda of items to consider for possible rule-making. Among other measures, this law:
              provides the FDA the authority to impose tobacco product standards that are appropriate for the protection of the public health through a regulatory process including, among other possibilities,
restrictions on ingredients, constituents or other properties, performance or design criteria as well as to impose testing, measurement, reporting and disclosure requirements;               provides the FDA with authority to regulate
nicotine yields and to reduce or eliminate harmful smoke constituents or harmful ingredients or other components of tobacco products;               imposes new restrictions on the advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of tobacco
products, including at retail;   
           changes
 the language of the current cigarette and smokeless tobacco product health warnings, enlarges their size, requires the development by the FDA of graphic warnings for cigarette packages, and grants the FDA authority to require new warnings;
              prohibits cigarettes with characterizing flavors other than menthol and tobacco;               requires the FDA to establish a tobacco product scientific advisory committee;
              provides the FDA with authority to restrict or otherwise regulate menthol cigarettes, as well as other tobacco products with characterizing flavors;   
           bans
 descriptors such as  light,   mild  or  low  or similar descriptors unless expressly authorized by the FDA;               requires extensive ingredient disclosure to the
FDA and may require more limited public ingredient disclosure;               requires FDA authorization of any express or implied claims that a tobacco product is or may be less harmful than other tobacco products;
              authorizes regulations for imposing manufacturing standards for tobacco products and provides the FDA authority to inspect tobacco product manufacturing and other facilities;   
           establishes
 a framework for prior FDA authorization before the introduction of certain new or modified tobacco products; and               provides the FDA with a variety of investigatory and enforcement tools.   
  The implementation of the FSPTCA is taking place over time. Some provisions took effect when the President signed the bill into law. Some provisions
have taken effect since the enactment of the FSPTCA and other provisions will not take effect for some time. Several areas require the FDA to take   
         92   

Table of Contents  

action through rulemaking, which generally involves consideration of public comment and, for some issues, scientific review. Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries are participating
actively in processes established by the FDA to develop and implement its regulatory framework including submission of comments to FDA proposals and draft guidelines and participation in public hearings and engagement sessions.   
  Regulations imposed by the FDA under the FSPTCA could adversely impact the business and sales volume of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco businesses
in a number of different ways. For example, actions by the FDA could impact the consumer acceptability of tobacco products, delay or prevent the sale or distribution of existing, new or modified tobacco products, limit consumer choices, restrict
communications to adult consumers, create a competitive advantage or disadvantage for certain tobacco companies, impose additional manufacturing, labeling or packaging requirements, impose restrictions at retail or otherwise significantly increase
the cost of doing business.      The failure to comply with FDA regulatory requirements, even by inadvertence, and FDA enforcement actions
could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.   
   TPSAC       The FSPTCA requires the establishment of an FDA
tobacco product scientific advisory committee ( TPSAC ), which consists of both voting and non-voting members, to provide advice, reports, information and recommendations to the FDA on scientific and health issues relating to tobacco
products. The statute directs the FDA to seek advice about modified risk products (products marketed with reduced risk claims), good manufacturing practices, the effects of the alteration of nicotine yields from tobacco products and nicotine
dependence thresholds. The TPSAC is also charged with providing the FDA reports and recommendations on menthol cigarettes, including the impact of the use of menthol in cigarettes on the public health, and the nature and impact of dissolvable
tobacco products on the public health. The FDA may seek advice from the TPSAC about other safety, dependence or health issues relating to tobacco products including tobacco product standards and applications to market new tobacco products.
     PM USA and USSTC have raised with the FDA their concerns that certain of the voting members of the TPSAC have financial and other
conflicts (including services as paid experts for plaintiffs in tobacco litigation) that could hamper the full and fair consideration of issues by the TPSAC and requested that their appointments be withdrawn. The FDA declined PM USA s and
USSTC s requests, stating that the FDA had satisfied itself, after inquiry, that the TPSAC members did not have disqualifying conflicts of interest. The FDA stated further that it would continue to screen, in accordance with relevant statutory
and regulatory provisions and FDA guidance, all TPSAC members for potential conflicts of interest for matters that the TPSAC would be considering. The FDA also has engaged two individuals to serve as consultants to a TPSAC subcommittee who also have
served as paid experts for plaintiffs in tobacco litigation. PM USA and USSTC raised similar concerns related to the engagement of these individuals and the FDA similarly declined to terminate these engagements.   
  The TPSAC has commenced its review of the use of menthol in cigarettes. PM USA has submitted and presented to the TPSAC information concerning
menthol cigarettes, including information related to research, development, marketing and sales practices. The FDA requested that PM USA submit documents and further information in connection with the TPSAC s development of its report and
recommendations regarding menthol in cigarettes. PM USA submitted documents and written information in response to the FDA s request and presented information at public hearings. The TPSAC is expected to issue a report and recommendation to the
FDA in March 2011 on the impact of the use of menthol in cigarettes on the public health.       Final Tobacco Marketing Rule    
  As noted above, the FSPTCA imposes significant new restrictions on the sale, advertising and promotion of tobacco products, including a requirement to re-promulgate
(subject to constitutional or other legal limits) certain advertising and promotion restrictions that were previously adopted (but never imposed on tobacco manufacturers due to a United States Supreme Court ruling) (the  1996 Rule ). In
March 2010, the FDA re-promulgated the 1996 Rule in substantially the same form as originally proposed in 1996 (the  Final Tobacco Marketing Rule ). As re-promulgated, the Final Tobacco Marketing Rule:   
           Bans
 the use of color and graphics in tobacco product advertising;               Prohibits the sale of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco to underage persons;   
           Requires
 the sale of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco in direct, face-to-face transactions;               Prohibits sampling of cigarettes and prohibits sampling of smokeless tobacco products except in qualified adult-only facilities;
              Prohibits gifts or other items in exchange for buying cigarettes or smokeless tobacco products;               Prohibits the sale or distribution of items
such as hats and tee shirts with tobacco brands or logos; and               Prohibits brand name sponsorship of any athletic, musical, artistic, or other social or cultural event, or any entity or team in any event.
     Subject to the limitations imposed by the injunction in the  Commonwealth Brands  case described below, the Final Tobacco Marketing
Rule took effect on June 22, 2010. At the time of the re-promulgation of the Final Tobacco Marketing Rule, the FDA also issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding the so-called  1000 foot rule , which would establish
restrictions on the placement of outdoor tobacco advertising in relation to schools and playgrounds.   
         93   

Table of Contents  

PM USA and USSTC submitted comments on this advance notice.   
  Since enactment, several lawsuits have been filed challenging various provisions of the FSPTCA, including its constitutionality and the scope
of the FDA s authority thereunder. Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries and affiliates are not parties to any of these lawsuits. In January 2010, in one such challenge ( Commonwealth Brands ) ,  the United States
District Court of the Western District of Kentucky struck down as unconstitutional, and enjoined enforcement of, the portion of the 1996 Rule that bans the use of color and graphics in labels and advertising and claims implying that a tobacco
product is safer because of FDA regulation. The parties have appealed. The FDA has indicated that it does not intend to enforce the ban on the use of color and graphics in labels and advertising for the duration of the injunction. It is not possible
to predict the outcome of any such litigation or its effect on the extent of the FDA s authority to regulate tobacco products.       Contraband
      The FSPTCA imposes on manufacturers reporting obligations relating to knowledge of suspected contraband activity and also grants the FDA the
authority to impose certain other recordkeeping and reporting obligations to address counterfeit and contraband tobacco products.       Compliance Costs
      The law imposes fees on tobacco product manufacturers and importers to pay for the cost of regulation and other matters. The cost of the FDA user
fee is allocated first among tobacco product categories subject to FDA regulation according to a formula set out in the statute, and then among manufacturers within each respective class based on their relative market share. The
impact of the user fee on Altria Group, Inc. is discussed in  Debt and Liquidity . In addition, compliance with the law s regulatory requirements will result in additional costs for our tobacco businesses. The amount of those additional
compliance and related costs is unknown and depends substantially on the nature of the requirements imposed by the FDA under the new statute. Those compliance and other related costs, however, could be substantial.   
   Investigation and Enforcement       The FDA has a number of
investigatory and enforcement tools available to it, including document requests and other required information submissions, facility inspections, examinations and investigations, injunction proceedings, money penalties, product withdrawals and
recalls, and product seizures. The use of any of these investigatory or enforcement tools by the FDA could result in significant costs to the tobacco businesses of Altria Group, Inc. or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the business,
financial condition and results of operations of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.      In June 2010, the FDA issued a document
request regarding changes to  Marlboro  Gold Pack cigarette packaging in connection with the FSPTCA s ban of certain descriptors. PM USA submitted documents in response to the FDA s request.   
   Other Regulatory Developments       On November 12, 2010, as
required by the FSPTCA, the FDA issued a proposed rule to modify the required warnings that appear on cigarette packages and in cigarette advertisements. The proposed warnings would consist of nine new textual warning statements accompanied by
color graphics depicting the negative health consequences of smoking. As proposed, the graphic health warnings would be located in the upper portion of the front and rear panels of cigarette packages, beneath the cellophane, and would comprise
the top 50 percent of the front and rear panels of cigarette packages. The graphic health warnings would occupy 20 percent of a cigarette advertisement and would be located at the top of the advertisement. The regulations are expected to be
finalized no later than June 2011, and cigarette manufacturers will have 15 months from issuance of the final rule to implement the new warnings. PM USA has submitted comments to the FDA raising constitutional, statutory interpretation and
executional issues regarding the proposed rule.              On January 5, 2011, the FDA issued guidance
concerning reports that manufacturers must submit for certain FDA-regulated tobacco products that the manufacturer modified or introduced for the first time into the market after February 15, 2007. These reports must be reviewed by the agency
to determine if such tobacco products are  substantially equivalent  to products commercially available as of February 15, 2007. In general, in order to continue marketing these products, manufacturers of FDA-regulated tobacco
products must send a report demonstrating substantial equivalence by March 22, 2011. PM USA and USSTC intend to submit reports for each of their currently marketed FDA-regulated tobacco products. PM USA and USSTC can continue marketing these
products unless the FDA makes a determination that a specific product is not substantially equivalent. If the FDA ultimately makes such a determination, it is possible that PM USA or USSTC would need to discontinue marketing that specific product.
PM USA and USSTC believe all of their current products meet the statute s requirements but cannot predict how the FDA will respond to their reports. Manufacturers intending to introduce new products and certain modified products into the market
after March 22, 2011 must submit a report to the FDA and obtain a substantial equivalence order from the agency before introducing the products into the market. At this time it is not possible to predict how long agency reviews will take. PM
USA and USSTC submitted comments to the FDA regarding the guidance. The FDA also published a proposed regulation on exemption from the substantial equivalence requirements. We cannot predict the final form of the regulation or when it will take
effect.  
          
      The World Health Organization s ( WHO s ) Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (the  FCTC ):  The FCTC entered into force in February 2005. As of February 18, 2011, 172
countries, as well as the European Community, have become parties to the FCTC. While the United States is a signatory of the FCTC, it is not currently a party to the agreement, as the agreement has not been submitted to, or
  
         94   

Table of Contents  

ratified by, the United States Senate. The FCTC is the first international public health treaty and its objective is to establish a global agenda for tobacco regulation with the purpose of
reducing initiation of tobacco use and encouraging cessation. The treaty recommends (and in certain instances, requires) signatory nations to enact legislation that would, among other things:   
           establish
 specific actions to prevent youth tobacco product use;               restrict or eliminate all tobacco product advertising, marketing, promotion and sponsorship;   
           initiate
 public education campaigns to inform the public about the health consequences of tobacco consumption and exposure to tobacco smoke and the benefits of quitting;               implement regulations imposing product testing,
disclosure and performance standards;   
           impose
 health warning requirements on packaging;   
           adopt
 measures that would eliminate tobacco product smuggling and counterfeit tobacco products;               restrict smoking in public places;   
           implement
 fiscal policies (tax and price increases);   
           adopt
 and implement measures that ensure that descriptive terms do not create the false impression that one brand of tobacco product is safer than another;               phase out duty-free tobacco product sales;
              encourage litigation against tobacco product manufacturers; and               adopt and implement guidelines for testing and measuring the contents and emissions of
tobacco products.      In addition, there are a number of proposals currently under consideration by the governing body of the FCTC, some of
which call for substantial restrictions on the manufacture and marketing of tobacco products. It is not possible to predict the outcome of these proposals or the impact of any FCTC actions on legislation or regulation in the United States, either
directly as a result of the United States becoming a party to the FCTC, or whether or how these actions might indirectly influence FDA regulation and enforcement.                  State and Local Laws Addressing
Certain Characterizing Flavors:  In a growing number of states and localities, legislation has been enacted or proposed that prohibits or would prohibit the sale of certain tobacco products with certain characterizing flavors. The
legislation varies in terms of the type of tobacco products subject to prohibition, the conditions under which the sale of such products is or would be prohibited, and exceptions to the prohibitions. For example, a number of proposals would
prohibit characterizing flavors in smokeless tobacco products, with no exception for mint- or wintergreen-flavored products.      To date,
the following states have enacted legislation that prohibits certain tobacco products with certain characterizing flavors:   
   Maine  has enacted legislation that prohibits the sale of certain flavored cigar and cigarette products. As implemented, including the
application of certain statutory exemptions, this prohibition does not ban any PM USA, USSTC, or Middleton product. In 2010, Maine amended the characterizing flavor prohibition. The amendment allows the continued sale of cigars that obtained
favorable exemption rulings under the previous statute but does not provide for the possibility of further exemptions, such as for future products with characterizing flavors.       New Jersey  has enacted legislation banning the sale and marketing of cigarettes with a characterizing flavor other than menthol, mint or clove. This legislation does not ban any PM USA, USSTC or Middleton
product.      In addition, such legislation has been enacted or is being considered in a number of localities. For example:   
   New York City  has adopted an ordinance that prohibits the sale of certain flavored tobacco products other than cigarettes. This legislation
affects certain USSTC and Middleton products. The ordinance was scheduled to take effect in February 2010, but the City deferred enforcement pending final implementing regulations. The City has since published proposed regulations. Certain
subsidiaries of USSTC have filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York challenging the New York City legislation on several grounds, including federal preemption by the FSPTCA. In March 2010, the trial
court denied plaintiffs  motion for preliminary injunction against enforcement of the ordinance. USSTC and Middleton are complying with the ordinance pending resolution of the litigation.   
  Whether other states or localities will enact legislation in this area, and the precise nature of such legislation if enacted, cannot be
predicted. See  FDA Regulation  above for a summary of the FSPTCA s regulation of certain tobacco products with characterizing flavors.                  State and Local Laws Imposing Certain Speech Requirements and
Restrictions:  In several jurisdictions, legislation or regulations have been enacted or proposed that would require the disclosure of health information separate from or in addition to federally-mandated health warnings or that would restrict
commercial speech in certain respects. For example, New York City has adopted a regulation requiring retailers selling tobacco products to display a sign, issued by the New York City Board of Health, containing graphic and textual warnings against
smoking. In June 2010, PM USA and other plaintiffs filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York challenging New York City s graphic health warnings regulation and filed a motion seeking to
preliminarily enjoin the regulation. The City agreed not to enforce the regulation until the district court ruled on the preliminary injunction motion, or January 1, 2011, whichever came first. On December 29, 2010, the district court
declared the regulation null and void, finding that such requirements were preempted by federal law. The City has   
         95   

Table of Contents  

appealed the decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.                  Tobacco Quota Buy-Out:  In October 2004, the Fair and Equitable
Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ( FETRA ) was signed into law. PM USA, Middleton and USSTC are subject to the requirements of FETRA. FETRA eliminated the federal tobacco quota and price support program through an industry-funded buy-out of
tobacco growers and quota holders. The cost of the buy-out is approximately $9.5 billion and is being paid over 10 years by manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares
of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The quota buy-out payments had offset PM USA s obligations to make payments to the National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust (the  NTGST ), a trust fund established in
1999 by the major domestic tobacco product manufacturers to provide aid to tobacco growers and quota holders. PM USA s payment obligations under the NTGST expired on December 15, 2010.   
  On February 8, 2011, PM USA filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging the United States Department of Agriculture s (the
 USDA ) method for calculating the 2011 and future tobacco class share allocations for the Tobacco Transition Payment Program under FETRA. PM USA believes that the USDA violated FETRA and its own regulations by failing to apply the most
current FET rates enacted by Congress in April 2009 to the USDA s calculations.      For a discussion of the impact of FETRA payments on
Altria Group, Inc., see  Financial Review Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations Payments Under State Settlement and Other Tobacco Agreements, and FDA Regulation.  We do not anticipate that the quota
buy-out will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results in 2011 and beyond.                  Health Effects of Tobacco Consumption and Exposure to Environmental Tobacco Smoke ( ETS ):  It is the policy of
Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries to defer to the judgment of public health authorities as to the content of warnings in advertisements and on product packaging regarding the health effects of tobacco consumption, addiction and
exposure to ETS. Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries believe that the public should be guided by the messages of the United States Surgeon General and public health authorities worldwide in making decisions concerning the use of tobacco
products.      Reports with respect to the health effects of smoking have been publicized for many years, including in a June 2006 United
States Surgeon General report on ETS entitled  The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke.  Many jurisdictions within the United States have restricted smoking in public places. The pace and scope of public smoking
bans have increased significantly. Some public health groups have called for, and various jurisdictions have adopted or proposed, bans on smoking in outdoor places, in private apartments and in cars with minors in them. It is not possible to predict
the results of ongoing scientific research or the types of future scientific research into the health risks of tobacco exposure.                  Reduced Cigarette Ignition Propensity Legislation:  Legislation or
regulation requiring cigarettes to meet reduced ignition propensity standards (first adopted by New York State in 2004) has been adopted in all states (Wyoming, the last state to adopt, is scheduled to implement the legislation as of July 1,
2011). PM USA has converted all cigarette production to cigarettes meeting reduced ignition propensity standards.      PM USA continues to
support the enactment of federal legislation mandating a uniform and technically feasible national standard for reduced ignition propensity cigarettes that would preempt state standards that are different from the federal standard.   
          
    Illicit Trade:  Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries support appropriate regulations and enforcement measures to prevent illicit trade in tobacco products. For example, Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries
are engaged in a number of initiatives to help prevent trade in contraband tobacco products, including: enforcement of wholesale and retail trade programs and policies on trade in contraband tobacco products; engagement with and support of law
enforcement and regulatory agencies; litigation to protect their trademarks; and support for a variety of federal and state legislative initiatives. Legislative initiatives to address trade in contraband tobacco products are designed to protect the
legitimate channels of distribution, impose more stringent penalties for the violation of illegal trade laws and provide additional tools for law enforcement. Regulatory measures and related governmental actions to prevent the illicit manufacture
and trade of tobacco products are being considered by a number of jurisdictions. For example, in March 2010, the President signed into law the Prevent All Cigarette Trafficking (PACT) Act, which addresses illegal Internet sales by, among other
things, imposing a series of restrictions and requirements on the delivery sale of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products and makes such products non-mailable to consumers through the United States Postal Service, subject to limited exceptions.
Certain Internet cigarette sellers have filed lawsuits challenging the constitutionality of this statute in the United States District Courts for the District of Columbia (in which case the court denied a motion for temporary restraining order and
preliminary injunction), the Western District of New York (in which case the court granted plaintiffs  motions for temporary restraining orders and motions for preliminary injunction are pending), and the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (in
which a request for preliminary injunction is pending). Appeals in the District of Columbia and Western District of New York cases are pending.                  State Settlement Agreements:  As discussed in Note 21 and
Item 3, during 1997 and 1998, PM USA and other major domestic tobacco product manufacturers entered into agreements with states and various United States jurisdictions settling asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims
(collectively, the  State Settlement Agreements ). These settlements require participating manufacturers to make substantial annual payments. For a discussion of the impact of these payments on Altria Group, Inc., see  Debt and
Liquidity . The settlements also place numerous requirements and restrictions on participating manufacturers  business   
         96   

Table of Contents  

operations, including prohibitions and restrictions on the advertising and marketing of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products. Among these are prohibitions of outdoor and transit brand
advertising, payments for product placement, and free sampling (except in adult-only facilities). Restrictions are also placed on the use of brand name sponsorships and brand name non-tobacco products. The State Settlement Agreements also place
prohibitions on targeting youth and the use of cartoon characters. In addition, the State Settlement Agreements require companies to affirm corporate principles directed at reducing underage use of cigarettes; impose requirements regarding lobbying
activities; mandate public disclosure of certain industry documents; limit the industry s ability to challenge certain tobacco control and underage use laws; and provide for the dissolution of certain tobacco-related organizations and place
restrictions on the establishment of any replacement organizations.      In November 1998, USSTC entered into the Smokeless Tobacco
Master Settlement Agreement (the  STMSA ) with the attorneys general of various states and United States territories to resolve the remaining health care cost reimbursement cases initiated against USSTC. The STMSA required USSTC
to adopt various marketing and advertising restrictions and make certain payments over a minimum of ten years. USSTC is the only smokeless tobacco manufacturer to sign the STMSA.                  Other Legislation or
Governmental Initiatives:  In addition to the actions discussed above, other regulatory initiatives affecting the tobacco industry have been adopted or are being considered at the federal level and in a number of state and local jurisdictions.
For example, in recent years, legislation has been introduced or enacted at the state or local level to subject tobacco products to various reporting requirements and performance standards; establish educational campaigns relating to tobacco
consumption or tobacco control programs, or provide additional funding for governmental tobacco control activities; restrict the sale of tobacco products in certain retail establishments and the sale of tobacco products in certain packing sizes;
require tax stamping of moist smokeless tobacco products; require the use of state tax stamps using data encryption technology; and further restrict the sale, marketing and advertising of cigarettes and other tobacco products.   
  It is not possible to predict what, if any, additional legislation, regulation or other governmental action will be enacted or implemented relating
to the manufacturing, design, packaging, marketing, advertising, sale or use of tobacco products, or the tobacco industry generally. It is possible, however, that legislation, regulation or other governmental action could be enacted or implemented
in the United States that might materially adversely affect the business and volume of our tobacco subsidiaries and our consolidated results of operations and cash flows.                  Governmental Investigations:
 From time to time, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters. Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries cannot predict whether new investigations may be commenced.   
          
    Tobacco Price, Availability and Quality:  Shifts in crops driven by economic conditions and adverse weather patterns, government mandated prices and production control programs may increase or decrease the cost or
reduce the quality of tobacco and other agricultural products used to manufacture our products. As with other agriculture commodities, the price of tobacco leaf can be influenced by economic conditions and imbalances in supply and
demand and crop quality and availability can be influenced by variations in weather patterns. Tobacco production in certain countries is subject to a variety of controls, including government mandated prices and production control
programs. Changes in the patterns of demand for agricultural products and the cost of tobacco production could cause tobacco leaf prices to increase and could result in farmers growing less tobacco. Any significant change in tobacco leaf
prices, quality or availability could affect our tobacco subsidiaries  profitability and business.      Operating Results   
   
                Cigarettes segment:  Effective in the first quarter of 2010, PM USA revised its cigarettes segment reporting of volume
and retail share results to reflect how management evaluates segment performance. PM USA is reporting volume and retail share performance as follows:  Marlboro ; Other Premium brands, such as  Virginia Slims ,  Parliament  and
 Benson   Hedges ; and Discount brands, which include  Basic, L M  and other discount brands.      The following table
summarizes cigarettes segment volume performance, which includes units sold as well as promotional units, but excludes Puerto Rico, U.S. Territories, Overseas Military, Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and 2008 contract manufacturing for PMI (terminated
in the fourth quarter of 2008), none of which, individually or in the aggregate, is material to the cigarettes segment:       
 
         97   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes cigarettes segment retail share performance:   
   
    Cigarettes segment retail share results are based on data from
SymphonyIRI Group/Capstone, which is a retail tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share performance in retail stores selling cigarettes. The panel was not designed to capture sales through other channels, including the
Internet and direct mail.      During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, PM USA executed the following pricing and
promotional allowance actions:   
           Effective
 December 6, 2010, PM USA increased the list price on all of its cigarette brands by $0.08 per pack.               Effective May 10, 2010, PM USA increased the list price on all of its cigarette
brands by $0.08 per pack. In addition, PM USA cancelled its wholesale promotional allowance of $0.21 per pack on  Basic .               Effective October 28, 2009, PM USA increased the list price on  Marlboro ,
 Basic  and  L M  by $0.06 per pack. In addition, PM USA increased the list price on all of its other brands by $0.08 per pack.               Effective March 9, 2009, PM USA increased
the list price on  Marlboro, Parliament, Virginia Slims ,  Basic  and  L M  by $0.71 per pack. In addition, PM USA increased the list price on all of its other premium brands by $0.81 per pack.   
           Effective
 February 9, 2009, PM USA increased the list price on  Marlboro, Parliament, Virginia Slims, Basic  and  L M  by $0.09 per pack. In addition, PM USA increased the list price on all of its other premium brands by $0.18 per pack.
              Effective December 29, 2008, PM USA increased its wholesale promotional allowance on  L M  by $0.29 per pack, from $0.26 to $0.55.   
           Effective
 December 15, 2008, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowances on  Marlboro  and  Basic  by $0.05 per pack, from $0.26 to $0.21, and increased the list price on its other brands, except for  L M,  by $0.05 per pack.
              Effective May 5, 2008, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowances on  Marlboro ,  Basic  and  L M  by $0.09 per pack, from $0.35 to $0.26, and eliminated the
$0.20 per pack wholesale promotional allowance on  Parliament . In addition, PM USA increased the list price on its other brands by $0.09 per pack.               Effective January 7, 2008, PM USA reduced
its wholesale promotional allowances on  Parliament  by $0.15 per pack from $0.35 to $0.20, and eliminated the $0.20 per pack wholesale promotional allowance on  Virginia Slims .   
  The following discussion compares cigarettes segment results for the year ended December 31, 2010 with the year ended December 31, 2009.
     Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $712 million (3.4%), reflecting higher pricing related primarily
to the FET increase ($1,923 million) and lower promotional allowances, partially offset by lower volume ($1,337 million).      Operating
companies income increased $396 million (7.8%), due primarily to higher list prices ($858 million), lower asset impairment, exit and implementation costs primarily related to the closure of the Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility ($155
million), lower manufacturing costs ($152 million) and lower promotional allowances, partially offset by lower volume ($632 million), higher FDA user fees ($96 million), higher marketing, administration and research costs, and higher per unit
settlement charges.      Marketing, administration and research costs include PM USA s cost of administering and litigating product
liability claims. Litigation defense costs are influenced by a number of factors, including those discussed in Note 21 and Item 3. Principal among these factors are the number and types of cases filed, the number of cases tried annually, the
results of trials and appeals, the development of the law controlling relevant legal issues, and litigation strategy and tactics. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, product liability defense costs were $259 million, $220
million and $179 million, respectively. The factors that have influenced past product liability defense costs are expected to continue to influence future costs. PM USA does not expect future product liability defense costs to be significantly
different from product liability defense costs incurred in 2010.      For 2010, PM USA s domestic cigarette shipment volume declined
5.3% versus 2009. After adjusting primarily for changes in trade inventories, PM USA s domestic cigarette shipment volume for 2010 was estimated to be down approximately 6% versus 2009. Total cigarette category volume was down an estimated 5%
in 2010 versus 2009 when adjusted primarily for changes in trade inventories.      PM USA s total premium brands ( Marlboro  and
Other Premium brands) shipment volume decreased 4.4%.  Marlboro  shipment volume decreased 4.6 billion units (3.7%) to 121.9 billion units. In the Discount brands, PM USA s shipment volume decreased 16.8% reflecting brand support
strategies. Shipments of premium cigarettes accounted for 93.9% of PM USA s total 2010 volume, up from 93.0% in 2009.      For 2010,
 Marlboro  s retail share increased 0.8 share points versus 2009 to 42.6%, as the brand benefited from the introductions of  Marlboro  Special Blend in the first quarter of 2010 and  Marlboro  Skyline Menthol in the fourth
quarter of 2010. For 2010, total retail share for the cigarettes segment declined 0.1 share point versus 2009 to 49.8%.   
         98   

Table of Contents  

   The following discussion compares cigarettes segment results for the year ended December 31, 2009
with the year ended December 31, 2008.      Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $2,166 million
(11.6%), reflecting higher pricing related primarily to the FET increase ($5,241 million), partially offset by lower volume ($3,061 million). Net revenues for 2008 included contract volume manufactured for PMI of $298 million.   
  Operating companies income increased $189 million (3.9%), due primarily to higher list prices ($1,592 million), lower marketing, administration and
research costs ($308 million) and lower promotional allowances ($269 million), partially offset by lower volume ($1,614 million), higher direct material and manufacturing costs ($167 million), higher exit and implementation costs ($88 million)
primarily related to the previously announced closure of its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility, an increase in per unit settlement charges ($60 million) and FDA user fees ($38 million). Lower, marketing, administration and research
costs primarily reflect the cost reduction initiatives discussed above.      For 2009, PM USA s domestic cigarette shipment volume of
148.7 billion units was 12.2% lower than 2008, but was estimated to be down about 10.5% when adjusted for changes in trade inventories and calendar differences. Total cigarette category volume was down an estimated 8% when adjusted for trade
inventory changes and calendar differences. The difference in PM USA s volume decline rate versus the total cigarette category is due primarily to volume lost during the period of FET-related price gap dislocation, share losses on its portfolio
brands, as well as higher trade inventory declines on PM USA s brands. PM USA estimates that trade inventories for its cigarettes declined by 17% from the beginning to the end of the year. In the first quarter of 2009, the trade significantly
reduced cigarette inventories in anticipation of the April 1, 2009 FET increase. In the second quarter of 2009, the trade rebuilt their inventories, but reduced them again in the second half of the year as they adjusted to lower cigarette
category volume and the higher costs associated with maintaining cigarette inventories. This decline disproportionately impacted PM USA s high volume brands. PM USA s total premium brands ( Marlboro  and Other Premium brands) shipment
volume decreased 11.8%.  Marlboro  shipment volume decreased 15.0 billion units (10.6%) to 126.5 billion units. In the Discount brands, PM USA s shipment volume decreased 17.4%. Shipments of premium cigarettes accounted for 93.0% of
PM USA s total 2009 volume, up from 92.6% in 2008.       Marlboro  s retail share for 2009 declined 0.1 share point versus
2008, driven primarily by higher levels of competitive promotional spending.  Marlboro  focused on maximizing its profitability by moderately spending targeted promotional money in response to heightened competitive spending, and grew its
margins in 2009 versus 2008. PM USA also profitably reset the retail share positions of the balance of its brand portfolio, which held a relatively stable combined retail share in the second half of 2009 at a higher profit level than prior to the
FET increase.                  Smokeless products segment:  Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST and its smokeless tobacco business, USSTC, on January 6, 2009. As a result, USSTC s financial results from
January 6 through December 31, 2009 are included in Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 consolidated and segment results. In addition, the smokeless products segment includes PM USA s smokeless products.   
  The following table summarizes smokeless products segment volume performance (full year results):   
   
    Volume includes cans and packs sold, as well as promotional
units but excludes international volume, which is not material to the smokeless products segment. Additionally, 2009 volume includes 10.9 million cans of domestic volume shipped by USSTC prior to the UST acquisition. Other includes USSTC and PM
USA smokeless products. Volume from 2008 represents only domestic volume shipped by USSTC prior to the UST acquisition.      New types of
smokeless products, as well as new packaging configurations of existing smokeless products, may or may not be equivalent to existing MST products on a can for can basis. USSTC and PM USA have assumed the following equivalent ratios to calculate
volumes of cans and packs shipped:   
           One
 pack of snus, irrespective of the number of pouches in the pack, is equivalent to one can of MST;               One can of  Skoal  Slim Can pouches is equivalent to a 0.53 can of MST; and
              All other products are considered to be equivalent on a can for can basis.      If
assumptions regarding these equivalent ratios change, it may result in a change to these reported results.      The following table
summarizes smokeless products segment retail share performance (full year results, excluding international volume):       
    Smokeless products segment retail share performance is based on
data from SymphonyIRI Group ( Symphony IRI )   
         99   

Table of Contents  

InfoScan Smokeless Tobacco Database for Food, Drug, Mass Merchandisers (excluding Wal-Mart) and Convenience trade classes, which tracks smokeless products market share performance based on the
number of cans and packs sold.      Smokeless products is defined as moist smokeless and spit-less tobacco products. Other includes USSTC and
PM USA smokeless tobacco products. It is SymphonyIRI s standard practice to periodically refresh its InfoScan syndicated services, which could restate retail share results that were previously released.   
  New types of smokeless products, as well as new packaging configurations of existing smokeless products, may or may not be equivalent to existing
MST products on a can for can basis. USSTC and PM USA have made the following assumptions for calculating retail share:               One pack of snus, irrespective of the number of pouches in the pack, is equivalent to
one can of MST; and               All other products are considered to be equivalent on a can for can basis.      If
assumptions regarding these equivalent ratios change, it may result in a change to these reported results.      During the years ended
December 31, 2010 and 2009, USSTC executed the following pricing actions:               Effective May 28, 2010, USSTC increased the list prices on substantially all of its brands by $0.10 per can.   
           Effective
 March 29, 2009, USSTC announced a national wholesale incentive program that lowered the list price of some of USSTC s brands, including  Copenhagen  and  Skoal , by $0.62 per can.   
  The following discussion compares smokeless products segment results for the year ended December 31, 2010 with the year ended December 31,
2009.      Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $186 million (13.6%), due primarily to higher volume ($175
million) and lower sales returns and promotional allowances, partially offset by list price reductions.      Operating companies income
increased $422 million (100+%), due primarily to lower asset impairment, exit, integration and UST acquisition-related costs ($227 million), higher volume ($135 million), lower marketing, administration and research costs ($77 million) reflecting
cost savings, and lower sales returns and promotional allowances, partially offset by list price reductions and higher manufacturing costs.      For 2010, USSTC and PM USA s combined domestic smokeless products shipment volume increased 12.2% versus 2009, due primarily to category growth, retail share growth and trade inventory changes. After adjusting
primarily for trade inventory changes, USSTC and PM USA s combined domestic smokeless products shipment volume for the year ended December 31, 2010 was estimated to be up approximately 8% versus 2009. USSTC and PM USA believe that the
smokeless category s volume grew at an estimated rate of approximately 7% for 2010 versus 2009.      USSTC and PM USA s combined
retail share of smokeless products increased 0.7 share points versus 2009 to 55.3%, driven primarily by  Copenhagen  and the national introduction of  Marlboro  Snus, partially offset by share declines on  Skoal .  Copenhagen
 and  Skoal  s combined retail share increased 0.8 share points versus 2009.  Copenhagen  s retail share increased 2.0 share points versus 2009 to 25.6%.  Copenhagen  benefited from USSTC s introductions of
 Copenhagen  Long Cut Wintergreen in the fourth quarter of 2009,  Copenhagen  Long Cut Straight and Extra Long Cut Natural at the end of the first quarter of 2010 and  Copenhagen  Black in the fourth quarter of 2010, which was offered
for a limited time only, as well as other brand-building programs.  Skoal  s retail share declined 1.2 share points versus 2009 to 22.4% as the brand s performance continued to be impacted by the  Copenhagen  and  Marlboro
 Snus product introductions and competitive activity. USSTC is introducing ten new  Skoal  products nationally in the first quarter of 2011. USSTC believes that these launches, along with other brand-building initiatives, will improve
 Skoal  s performance. PM USA continues to build awareness and trial of  Marlboro  Snus among adult cigarette smokers, and introduced two new snus varieties in January 2011.   
  The following is a discussion of smokeless products segment results for the year ended December 31, 2009.   
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, were $1,366 million. Operating companies income was $381 million. Results were
negatively impacted by costs related primarily to the acquisition of UST. These costs primarily consisted of employee separation costs ($166 million), asset impairments ($27 million), integration costs ($43 million) and inventory adjustments ($15
million), as well as costs associated with PM USA s smokeless products, and actions taken to enhance the value equation on USSTC s MST brands.      The smokeless products segment domestic shipment volume for the period January 6 through December 31, 2009 was 634.7 million units. Including the volume of 10.9 million cans shipped from
January 1 through January 5, 2009, which was prior to the acquisition of UST, total volume for the full year ended December 31, 2009 was 645.6 million units. The smokeless products segment domestic shipment volume for 2009 (full
year results) declined 2.4% versus 2008, due primarily to changes in trade inventories. USSTC believes disproportionate trade inventory declines on its products were due to a number of factors, including the discontinuation of multi-can promotional
deals and its  Rooster  brand, and the change in the shipping unit from ten to five can rolls. These volume declines were partially offset by the introduction of  Copenhagen  Long Cut Wintergreen in November 2009.   
  After adjusting for trade inventory changes, pipeline volume for the expansion of  Marlboro  snus and the discontinuation of USSTC s
 Rooster  brand, the smokeless products segment shipment volume for 2009 was estimated to be up approximately 1%. USSTC believes that the overall smokeless category s volume grew at an estimated rate of approximately 7% in 2009.
  
         100   

Table of Contents  

   In the fourth quarter of 2009, USSTC and PM USA s combined retail share of smokeless products
increased 0.9 share points to 54.6% versus 53.7% for the third quarter of 2009.  Copenhagen  s retail share grew 1.4 share points to 24.6% versus 23.2% for the third quarter of 2009 as the brand benefited from the introduction of
 Copenhagen  Long Cut Wintergreen.  Skoal  s retail share declined 0.2 share points to 23.3% versus 23.5% in the third quarter of 2009.   
             
     Cigars segment:  The cigars segment s shipment volume, retail share and financial results for the full year of 2010 were negatively impacted by events in the aftermath of the 2009 FET increase on tobacco products.
Middleton observed increased competitive activity, including significantly higher levels of imported, low-priced machine-made large cigars. Middleton responded with promotional investments to defend its position in the marketplace.   
  The following table summarizes cigars segment volume performance:   
   
    The following table summarizes cigars segment retail share
performance:       
    Cigars segment retail share results are based on data from
SymphonyIRI InfoScan Cigar Database for Food, Drug, Mass Merchandisers (excluding Wal-Mart) and Convenience trade classes, which tracks machine-made large cigars market share performance. Middleton defines machine-made large cigars as cigars made by
machine that weigh greater than three pounds per thousand, except cigars sold at retail in packages of 20 cigars. This service was developed to provide a representation of retail business performance in key trade channels. It is SymphonyIRI s
standard practice to periodically refresh its InfoScan syndicated services, which could restate retail share results that were previously released.      During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 Middleton executed the following pricing actions:               Effective November 15, 2010, Middleton
executed various list price increases across substantially all of its brands resulting in a weighted-average increase of approximately $0.09 per five-pack.               Effective January 11, 2010, Middleton
executed various list price increases across substantially all of its brands resulting in a weighted-average increase of approximately $0.18 per five-pack.               Effective March 4, 2009, Middleton
executed various list price increases across substantially all of its brands resulting in a weighted-average increase of approximately $0.40 per five-pack.               Effective February 11, 2009, Middleton
increased the list price on all of its brands by approximately $0.20 per five-pack.               Effective January 28, 2009, Middleton increased the list price on substantially all of its brands by $0.08 per five-pack.   
           Effective
 September 02, 2008, Middleton increased the list price on substantially all of its brands by approximately $0.07 per five-pack.               Effective February 18, 2008, Middleton increased the list price on substantially
all of its brands by approximately $0.07 per five-pack.      The following discussion compares cigars segment results for the year ended
December 31, 2010 with the year ended December 31, 2009.      Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers,
increased $40 million (7.7%), reflecting higher pricing related primarily to the FET increase, partially offset by higher promotional allowances.      Operating companies income decreased $9 million (5.1%), due primarily to higher promotional allowances ($37 million) and higher manufacturing costs ($12 million), partially offset by higher pricing ($33 million)
and lower integration costs.      For 2010, Middleton s cigar volume decreased 1.0% versus 2009 to 1,246 million units due
primarily to  Black   Mild  s share performance. After adjusting primarily for changes in trade inventories, Middleton s shipment volume was estimated to be down approximately 4% versus 2009. Middleton estimates that the
machine-made large cigar category s volume grew approximately 2% for 2010.      For 2010, Middleton s retail share decreased 1.5
share points versus 2009 to 28.9%.  Black   Mild  s retail share decreased 1.3 share points versus 2009 to 28.5% due primarily to heightened competitive activity. On a sequential basis,  Black   Mild  s second
half of 2010 retail share increased 1.2 share points versus the first half of 2010 to 29.1%, as the brand benefited from the introduction of  Black   Mild  Royale and other brand-building initiatives. Middleton plans to continue
building  Black   Mild  s marketplace position in 2011 with new products and other initiatives.      The following
discussion compares cigars segment operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009 with the year ended December 31, 2008.   
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $133 million (34.4%), reflecting higher pricing related primarily to the FET
increase ($148 million), partially offset by lower volume ($15 million).   
         101   

Table of Contents  

   Operating companies income increased $12 million (7.3%), due primarily to higher pricing ($45 million)
and lower integration costs ($9 million), partially offset by higher manufacturing costs primarily related to new products ($22 million), lower volume ($12 million) and higher marketing, administration and research costs ($8 million).   
  For 2009, Middleton s cigar shipment volume declined 3.6% versus 2008, due primarily to declines in trade inventories. Middleton believes that
trade inventory declines on its products were due partially to the movement to the more efficient Altria Sales   Distribution system, which significantly reduced wholesale delivery lead times. After adjusting for changes in trade
inventories, Middleton s shipment volume was estimated to be up slightly for 2009. Middleton believes that the machine-made large cigars category s growth slowed after the FET increase, resulting in a category that slightly declined.
     Middleton achieved strong retail share results for 2009 behind the strength of its leading brand,  Black   Mild .
Middleton achieved a 30.4% retail share of the machine-made large cigars segment for 2009, up 0.9 share points versus 2008.  Black   Mild  s retail share increased 1.0 share points in 2009 versus 2008 to 29.8% of the machine-made
large cigar segment.       Wine segment        Business
Environment       Ste. Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarily  Chateau Ste. Michelle  and  Columbia Crest , and
owns wineries in or distributes wines from several other wine regions. As discussed in Note 21 and Item 3, Ste. Michelle holds an 85% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori, LLC, which owns  Stag s Leap Wine Cellars  in Napa Valley.
Ste. Michelle also owns  Conn Creek  in Napa Valley and  Erath  in Oregon. In addition, Ste. Michelle distributes  Antinori  and  Villa Maria Estate  wines and  Champagne Nicolas Feuillatte  in the United States. A key
element of Ste. Michelle s strategy is expanded domestic distribution of its wines, especially in certain account categories such as restaurants, wholesale clubs, supermarkets, wine shops and mass merchandisers.   
  Ste. Michelle s business is subject to significant competition, including competition from many larger, well-established domestic and
international companies, as well as from many smaller wine producers. Wine segment competition is primarily based on quality, price, consumer and trade wine tastings, competitive wine judging, third-party acclaim and advertising.   
  Federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various means, including licensing requirements,
pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies. Further regulatory restrictions or additional excise or other taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages may have an adverse effect on Ste.
Michelle s wine business.       Operating Results    
  Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST and its premium wine business, Ste. Michelle, on January 6, 2009. As a result, Ste. Michelle s financial results from
January 6 through December 31, 2009 are included in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated and segment results for the year ended December 31, 2009.       
    The following table summarizes wine segment case shipment
volume performance. Volume from 2008 represents volume shipped by Ste. Michelle prior to the UST acquisition.       
    The following table summarizes Ste. Michelle s and the
total wine industry s retail unit volume change:       
            Retail unit volume percentage
change is based on data from The Nielsen Company ( Nielsen ) and its Nielsen Total Wine Database   U.S. Food, Drug   Liquor, which tracks retail metrics in the wine space. It is Nielsen s standard practice to
periodically refresh its syndicated databases, which could restate retail metrics that were previously released. Ste. Michelle s retail unit volume includes  Villa Maria Estate  in 2010 and excludes it in 2009. Ste. Michelle gained
distribution rights to  Villa Maria Estate  in 2010.      The following discussion compares wine segment results for the year ended
December 31, 2010 with the year ended December 31, 2009.      Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers,
increased $56 million (13.9%), due primarily to higher volume.      Operating companies income increased $18 million (41.9%), due
primarily to higher volume ($23 million) and lower exit, integration, and UST acquisition-related costs, partially offset by higher marketing, administration and research costs.   
  Ste. Michelle s wine shipment volume for 2010 increased 11.3% versus 2009 due primarily to higher off-premise channel volume that includes
supermarkets, liquor stores and wholesale clubs, as well as higher on-premise channel volume that includes restaurants and bars. Full-year volume results were also positively impacted by calendar differences. After adjusting for calendar
differences, Ste. Michelle s wine ship-  
         102   

Table of Contents  

ment volume for 2010 was estimated to be up 9.8% versus 2009.      During 2010,
Ste. Michelle s retail unit volume increased 5.6% versus 2009. The total wine industry s retail unit volume for 2010 increased 3.0% versus 2009.      The following is a discussion of wine segment results for the year ended December 31, 2009.      Net
revenues for the wine segment were $403 million. Operating companies income was $43 million, which included pre-tax charges of $30 million related to the UST acquisition, consisting of inventory adjustments, exit and integration costs.   
  Ste. Michelle s wine shipment volume of 6.0 million cases was 2.1% lower than 2008. This decrease was due primarily to wholesale inventory
reductions, and lower on-premise channel volume that includes restaurants and bars. In addition, Ste. Michelle s wine shipment volume was negatively impacted by the suspension of shipments during the first week of January 2009 to take inventory
prior to the closing of the UST acquisition, and wholesalers built inventories in the last few weeks of 2008 in advance of this suspension.      In 2009, Ste. Michelle s retail volume increased 6.7% versus 2008. The total wine industry s retail volume for 2009 increased 0.2% versus 2008.       Financial services segment        Business Environment    
  In 2003, PMCC ceased making new investments and began focusing exclusively on managing its existing portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize gains and
generate cash flow from asset sales and related activities. Accordingly, PMCC s operating companies income will fluctuate over time as investments mature or are sold. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, proceeds from asset sales, lease maturities and
bankruptcy recoveries totaled $312 million, $793 million and $403 million, respectively, and gains included in operating companies income totaled $72 million, $257 million and $87 million, respectively.   
  The credit quality of PMCC s investments in finance leases at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was as follows:   
   
    The activity in the allowance for losses on finance assets for
the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was as follows:       
    PMCC has assessed its allowance for losses for its entire
portfolio, and believes that the allowance for losses of $202 million is adequate. PMCC continues to monitor economic and credit conditions, and the individual situations of its lessees and their respective industries, and may have to increase its
allowance for losses if such conditions worsen. All PMCC lessees were current on their lease payment obligations as of December 31, 2010.      PMCC leased, under several lease arrangements, various types of automotive manufacturing equipment to GM, which filed for bankruptcy on June 1, 2009. As of the date of the bankruptcy filing, PMCC stopped
recording income on its $214 million investment in finance leases from GM. During 2009, GM rejected one of the leases, which resulted in a $49 million write-off against PMCC s allowance for losses, lowering the investment in finance leases
balance from GM to $165 million. General Motors LLC ( New GM ), which is the successor of GM s North American automobile business, agreed to assume nearly all the remaining leases under the same terms as GM, except for a rebate of a
portion of future rents. The assignment of the leases to New GM was approved by the bankruptcy court and became effective in March 2010. During the first quarter of 2010, GM rejected another lease that was not assigned to New GM. The impact of the
rent rebates and the 2010 lease rejection resulted in a $64 million write-off against PMCC s allowance for losses in the first quarter of 2010. In the first quarter of 2010, PMCC participated in a transaction pursuant to which the equipment
related to the rejected leases was sold to New GM. These transactions resulted in an acceleration of deferred taxes of $34 million in 2010. As of December 31, 2010, PMCC s investment in finance leases from New GM was $101 million.
     During the second quarter of 2010, PMCC completed the replacement of Ambac Assurance Corporation ( Ambac ) in the one
remaining lease transaction with indirect exposure to this credit support provider whose credit rating remained below investment grade. Ambac was replaced by a company rated  AA+/Aa1  by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services
( Standard   Poor s ) and Moody s Investors Service, Inc. ( Moody s ), respectively. PMCC has no remaining exposure to Ambac.              On January 5, 2010, Mesa Airlines, Inc. ( Mesa ) filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. At the bankruptcy date, PMCC s portfolio included
five aircraft under leveraged leases with Mesa with a finance asset balance of $21 million. PMCC s interest in these leases was secured by letters of credit. Upon the bankruptcy filing, PMCC drew on the letters of credit and recovered its
outstanding investment.      During 2009, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $15 million based on management s assessment of its
portfolio, including its exposure to GM. During 2008, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $100 million primarily as a result of credit rating downgrades of certain lessees and financial market conditions.   
  See Note 21 and Item 3 for a discussion of the IRS s disallowance of certain tax benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease
transactions.   
         103   

Table of Contents  

   Operating Results       
    PMCC s net revenues for 2010 decreased $187 million
(53.7%) from 2009. PMCC s operating companies income for 2010 decreased $113 million (41.9%) from 2009. The decreases were due primarily to lower gains on asset sales in 2010.   
  PMCC s net revenues for 2009 increased $132 million (61.1%) from 2008, due primarily to higher gains on asset sales, partially offset by
lower lease revenues as a result of lower investment balances. PMCC s operating companies income for 2009 increased $199 million (100+%) from 2008, due primarily to higher gains on asset sales and a lower increase to the allowance for
losses, partially offset by lower lease revenues.       Financial Review        Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities, Continuing Operations       During 2010, net cash provided by operating
activities was $2.8 billion compared with $3.4 billion during 2009. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was due primarily to a payment of approximately $945 million for taxes and associated interest in July 2010 to the IRS
associated with certain leveraged lease transactions entered into by PMCC in 1996 through 2003, and higher interest payments in 2010 due to the issuance of senior unsecured long-term notes in February 2009, partially offset by lower settlement
payments in 2010 and higher tax payments in 2009 related to finance asset sales. For further discussion of PMCC leveraged lease transactions, see Note 21 and Item 3.      During 2009, net cash provided by operating activities on a continuing operations basis was $3.4 billion, compared with $3.2 billion during 2008. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was due
primarily to lower income taxes paid during 2009.      Altria Group, Inc. had a working capital deficit at December 31, 2010 and
December 31, 2009 due to its decision to maintain lower cash on hand than during previous periods.       Net Cash Provided by (Used in)
Investing Activities, Continuing Operations       Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries from time to time consider acquisitions as evidenced by the
acquisition of UST in January 2009. For further discussion, see Note 3.      During 2010, net cash provided by investing activities was $259
million, compared with net cash used of $9.8 billion during 2009. This change was due primarily to the acquisition of UST in January 2009 and lower capital expenditures in 2010, partially offset by lower proceeds from finance asset sales during
2010.      During 2009, net cash used in investing activities on a continuing operations basis was $9.8 billion, compared with net cash
provided of $796 million during 2008. This change was due primarily to the acquisition of UST in January 2009 and proceeds from the sale of Altria Group, Inc. s corporate headquarters building in New York City during 2008, partially offset by
higher proceeds from finance asset sales in 2009.      Capital expenditures for 2010 decreased 38.5% to $168 million. Capital expenditures
for 2011 are expected to be approximately $200 million, and are expected to be funded from operating cash flows.       Net Cash Provided by (Used in)
Financing Activities, Continuing Operations       During 2010, net cash used in financing activities was $2.6 billion compared with net cash provided of
$276 million during 2009. This change was due primarily to lower net issuances of debt and a higher dividend rate during 2010.      During
2009, net cash provided by financing activities on a continuing operations basis was $276 million, compared with net cash used of $937 million during 2008. This change was due primarily to the following:   
           lower
 dividends paid on common stock during 2009 as a result of the PMI spin-off;               cash used in 2008 to repurchase common stock pursuant to Altria Group, Inc. s $4.0 billion (2008-2010) share repurchase program, which
was suspended in September 2009;   
           debt
 tender offers during the first quarter of 2008 which resulted in the repayment of debt, as well as the payment of tender and consent fees; and               a payment of $449 million to PMI during 2008 as
a result of the spin-off related modifications to Altria Group, Inc. stock awards;      partially offset by:   
           dividends
 received from PMI during the first quarter of 2008; and               lower issuances of long-term debt during 2009.       Debt and Liquidity        Credit Ratings:  Altria Group, Inc. s cost and terms of
financing and its access to commercial paper markets may be impacted by applicable credit ratings. Under the terms of certain of Altria Group, Inc. s existing debt instruments, a change in a credit rating could result in an increase
or a decrease of the cost of borrowings. For instance, the interest rate payable on certain of Altria Group, Inc. s outstanding notes is subject to adjustment from time to time if the rating assigned to the notes of such series by
Moody s or Standard   Poor s is downgraded (or subsequently upgraded) as and to the extent set forth in the notes. The impact of credit ratings on the cost of borrowings under Altria Group, Inc. s credit agreements is
discussed below.  
         104   

Table of Contents  

   At December 31, 2010, the credit ratings and outlook for Altria Group, Inc. s indebtedness
by major credit rating agencies were:       

Short-term   
   Debt    
     
     Long-term   
   Debt    
     
   Outlook    
 
    Moody s   
      
  P-2  
     
  Baa1  
     
  Stable*   
 
    Standard   Poor s   
      
  A-2  
     
  BBB  
     
  Stable   
 
    Fitch   
      
    F2  
     
  BBB+  
     
  Stable   

* Moody s outlook reflects a change to  Stable  from the
 Negative  outlook that was reported in Altria Group, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. Moody's announced this change on May 7, 2010.   
   Credit Lines:  From time to time, Altria Group, Inc. has short-term borrowing needs to meet its working capital requirements and generally
uses its commercial paper program to meet those needs. At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, Altria Group, Inc. had no short-term borrowings outstanding.      For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, Altria Group, Inc. s average daily short-term borrowings, peak short-term borrowings outstanding and weighted-average interest rate on short-term
borrowings were as follows:       
    Peak borrowings for 2010 and 2008 were due primarily to
payments related to State Settlement Agreements as further discussed in  Payments Under State Settlement and Other Tobacco Agreements, and FDA Regulation ,  Tobacco Space   Business Environment , Note 21 and Item 3. Peak
borrowings for 2008 were also impacted by the timing of share repurchases. Peak borrowings for 2010 and 2008 were repaid with cash provided by operating activities. Peak borrowings for 2009 represented borrowings under a 364-day term bridge loan
facility related to the acquisition of UST as further discussed in Note 3.      At December 31, 2010, the credit lines for Altria Group,
Inc. and related activity were as follows:       
    At December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. had in place a
senior unsecured 364-day revolving credit agreement (the  364-Day Agreement ) and a senior unsecured 3-year revolving credit agreement (the  3-Year Agreement  and, together with the 364-Day Agreement, the  Revolving Credit
Agreements ). Altria Group, Inc. entered into the 364-Day Agreement on November 17, 2010. This agreement provides for borrowings up to an aggregate principal amount of $0.6 billion and expires on November 16, 2011. The 364-Day
Agreement replaced Altria Group, Inc. s previous $0.6 billion senior unsecured 364-day revolving credit agreement, which was terminated effective November 17, 2010. The 3-Year Agreement provides for borrowings up to an aggregate principal
amount of $2.4 billion and expires on November 20, 2012. Altria Group, Inc. expects to replace the Revolving Credit Agreements prior to each expiration in amounts and maturities, and on other terms and conditions reflective of market conditions
at that time. Pricing under the Revolving Credit Agreements may be modified in the event of a change in the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt. Interest rates on borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreements will
be based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) plus a percentage equal to Altria Group, Inc. s credit default swap spread subject to certain minimum rates and maximum rates based on the higher of the rating of Altria Group,
Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt from Standard   Poor s and Moody s. The applicable minimum and maximum rates based on Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt ratings at December 31, 2010 for
the 364-Day Agreement are 1.0% and 2.25%, respectively. The applicable minimum and maximum rates based on Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt ratings at December 31, 2010 for the 3-Year Agreement are
2.0% and 4.0%, respectively. The Revolving Credit Agreements do not include any other rating triggers, nor do they contain any provisions that could require the posting of collateral.   
  The Revolving Credit Agreements are used for general corporate purposes and to support Altria Group, Inc. s commercial paper issuances. The
Revolving Credit Agreements require that Altria Group, Inc. maintain (i) a ratio of debt to consolidated EBITDA of not more than 3.0 to 1.0 and (ii) a ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense of not less than 4.0 to
1.0, each calculated as of the end of the applicable quarter on a rolling four-quarters basis. At December 31, 2010, the ratios of debt to consolidated EBITDA and consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense, calculated in accordance
with the Revolving Credit Agreements, were 1.7 to 1.0 and 6.2 to 1.0, respectively. Altria Group, Inc. expects to continue to meet its covenants associated with the Revolving Credit Agreements. The terms  consolidated EBITDA, 
 debt  and  consolidated interest expense  as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreements include certain adjustments. Exhibit 99.3 to Altria Group, Inc. s 2010 Form 10-K sets forth the definitions of these terms as they
appear in the Revolving Credit Agreements.      Any commercial paper issued by Altria Group, Inc. and borrowings under the Revolving Credit
Agreements are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by PM USA as further discussed in Note 22.  Condensed Consolidating Financial Information  to the consolidated financial statements ( Note 22 ).   
   Financial Market Environment:  Altria Group, Inc. believes it has adequate liquidity and access to financial resources to meet its anticipated
obligations in the foreseeable future. Altria Group, Inc. continues to monitor the credit quality of its bank group and is not aware of any potential non-performing credit provider in that group. Altria Group, Inc. believes the
  
         105   

Table of Contents  

lenders in its bank group will be willing and able to advance funds in accordance with their legal obligations.       Debt:  Altria Group, Inc. s total debt, all of which is consumer products debt, was $12.2 billion and $12.0 billion, at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively.   
  As discussed in Note 11, during 2010, Altria Group, Inc. issued $1.0 billion (aggregate principal amount) of 4.125% senior unsecured long-term notes
due in September 2015, which consisted of $800 million issued in June 2010 and $200 million issued in August 2010. Interest on each issuance will be paid semiannually, with interest accruing from June 2010. The net proceeds from the issuance of
these senior unsecured notes were added to Altria Group, Inc. s general funds, which may be used to meet working capital requirements, refinance debt or for general corporate purposes.   
  In June 2010, Altria Group, Inc. s $775 million 7.125% notes matured and were repaid.   
  All debt was fixed-rate debt at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The weighted-average coupon interest rate on total debt was approximately 8.8% and
9.0% at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For further details on long-term debt, see Note 11.       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and
Aggregate Contractual Obligations       Altria Group, Inc. has no off-balance sheet arrangements, including special purpose entities, other than
guarantees and contractual obligations that are discussed below.       Guarantees and Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest:  As discussed
in Note 21 and Item 3, Altria Group, Inc. had guarantees (including third-party guarantees) and a redeemable noncontrolling interest outstanding at December 31, 2010. In addition, as discussed in Note 22, PM USA has issued guarantees
related to Altria Group, Inc. s indebtedness.       Aggregate Contractual Obligations:  The following table summarizes Altria
Group, Inc. s contractual obligations at December 31, 2010:       
    (1) Amounts represent the expected cash payments of Altria Group, Inc. s
long-term debt, all of which is consumer products debt.      (2) Amounts represent the expected cash payments of Altria Group, Inc. s interest expense
on its long-term debt. Interest on Altria Group, Inc. s debt, which is all fixed-rate debt at December 31, 2010, is presented using the stated coupon interest rate. Amounts exclude the amortization of debt discounts and premiums, the
amortization of loan fees and fees for lines of credit that would be included in interest expense in the consolidated statements of earnings.      (3)
Amounts represent the minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases.      (4) Purchase obligations for inventory and production costs
(such as raw materials, indirect materials and supplies, packaging, storage and distribution) are commitments for projected needs to be utilized in the normal course of business. Other purchase obligations include commitments for marketing, capital
expenditures, information technology and professional services. Arrangements are considered purchase obligations if a contract specifies all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, a pricing structure and
approximate timing of the transaction. Most arrangements are cancelable without a significant penalty, and with short notice (usually 30 days). Any amounts reflected on the consolidated balance sheet as accounts payable and accrued liabilities are
excluded from the table above.      (5) Other long-term liabilities consist of accrued postretirement health care costs and certain accrued pension costs.
The amounts included in the table above for accrued pension costs consist of a voluntary $200 million contribution made on January 7, 2011 as well as the actuarially determined anticipated minimum funding requirements for each year from 2012
through 2015. Contributions beyond 2015 cannot be reasonably estimated and, therefore, are not included in the table above. In addition, the following long-term liabilities included on the consolidated balance sheet are excluded from the table
above: accrued postemployment costs, income taxes and tax contingencies, and other accruals. Altria Group, Inc. is unable to estimate the timing of payments for these items.   
      The State Settlement Agreements and related legal fee payments, payments for
tobacco growers and FDA user fees, as discussed below and in Note 21 and Item 3, are excluded from the table above, as the payments are subject to adjustment for several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume. Litigation
escrow deposits, as discussed below and in Note 21 and Item 3, are also excluded from the table above since these deposits will be returned to PM USA should it prevail on appeal.   
   Payments Under State Settlement and Other Tobacco Agreements, and FDA Regulation:  As discussed previously and in Note 21 and Item 3, PM
USA has entered into State Settlement Agreements with the states and territories of the United States and also entered into a trust agreement to provide certain aid to U.S. tobacco growers and quota holders, but PM USA s obligations under this
trust expired on December 15, 2010 (these obligations had been offset by the obligations imposed on PM USA by FETRA, which expires in 2014). USSTC and Middleton are also subject to obligations imposed by FETRA. In addition, in June 2009, PM USA
and a subsidiary of USSTC became subject to quarterly user fees imposed by the FDA as a result of the FSPTCA. The State Settlement Agreements, FETRA, and the FDA user fees call for payments that are based on variable factors, such as volume, market
share and inflation, depending on the subject payment. Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries account for the cost of the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user fees as a component of cost of sales. As a result of the State
  
         106   

Table of Contents  

Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user fees, Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries recorded charges to cost of sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 of $5.0 billion,
$5.0 billion and $5.5 billion, respectively.      Based on current agreements, 2010 market share, and historical annual industry volume
decline rates, the estimated amounts that Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries may charge to cost of sales for these payments will approximate $5 billion in 2011 and each year thereafter.   
  The estimated amounts due under the State Settlement Agreements and FETRA charged to cost of sales in each year would generally be paid in the
following year. The amounts charged to cost of sales for the FDA user fees are paid in the quarter in which the fees are incurred. As previously stated, the payments due under the terms of the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user fees are
subject to adjustment for several factors, including volume, inflation and certain contingent events and, in general, are allocated based on each manufacturer s market share. Future payment amounts are estimates, and actual amounts will differ
as underlying assumptions differ from actual future results. See Note 21 and Item 3 for a discussion of proceedings that may result in a downward adjustment of amounts paid under State Settlement Agreements for the years 2003 to 2009.
      Litigation Escrow Deposits:  With respect to certain adverse verdicts currently on appeal, as of December 31, 2010, PM USA
has posted various forms of security totaling approximately $103 million, the majority of which have been collateralized with cash deposits, to obtain stays of judgments pending appeals. These cash deposits are included in other assets on the
consolidated balance sheet.      Although litigation is subject to uncertainty and could result in material adverse consequences for the
financial condition, cash flows or results of operations of PM USA, UST or Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year as more fully disclosed in Note 21, Item 3, and in  Cautionary   Factors That May Affect Future
Results , management expects cash flow from operations, together with Altria Group, Inc. s access to capital markets, to provide sufficient liquidity to meet ongoing business needs.       Equity and Dividends       As discussed in Note 1, on March 28, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its
interest in PMI to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. The PMI distribution resulted in a net decrease to Altria Group, Inc. s total stockholders  equity of $14.7 billion on March 28, 2008.   
  As discussed in Note 13.  Stock Plans  to the consolidated financial statements, during 2010 Altria Group, Inc. granted 2.6 million shares
of restricted and deferred stock to eligible employees.      At December 31, 2010, the number of shares to be issued upon exercise
of outstanding stock options and vesting of deferred stock was 4.2 million, or 0.2% of shares outstanding.      Dividends paid in
2010 and 2009 were approximately $3.0 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively, an increase of 9.8%, primarily reflecting a higher dividend rate.      On February 24, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors approved a 2.9% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.35 per common share from $0.34 per common share. On August 27, 2010, Altria
Group, Inc. s Board of Directors approved an additional 8.6% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.38 per common share, resulting in an aggregate quarterly dividend rate increase of 11.8% since the beginning of 2010. These increases are
consistent with Altria Group, Inc. s dividend payout ratio target of approximately 80% of its adjusted diluted EPS, which was increased from 75% in January 2010. The current annualized dividend rate is $1.52 per Altria Group, Inc. common share.
Future dividend payments remain subject to the discretion of Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors.      Dividends paid in 2009 and
2008 were $2.7 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively, a decrease of 39.2%, primarily reflecting an adjusted dividend rate as a result of the PMI spin-off. Following the PMI spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its dividend so that holders of both
Altria Group, Inc. and PMI shares would receive initially, in the aggregate, the same dividends paid by Altria Group, Inc. prior to the PMI spin-off.      In January 2011, Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors authorized a new $1.0 billion one-year share repurchase program. Share repurchases under this program depend upon marketplace conditions and other
factors. The share repurchase program remains subject to the discretion of Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors.      During the
second quarter of 2008, Altria Group, Inc. repurchased 53.5 million shares of its common stock at an aggregate cost of approximately $1.2 billion, or an average price of $21.81 per share pursuant to its $4.0 billion (2008 to 2010) share
repurchase program. No shares were repurchased during 2010 or 2009 under this share repurchase program, which was suspended in September 2009. The new share repurchase program replaces the suspended program.   
   Market Risk       As discussed in Note 20.  Financial
Instruments  to the consolidated financial statements, derivative financial instruments are used periodically by Altria Group, Inc., and its subsidiaries principally to reduce exposures to market risks resulting from fluctuations in interest
rates and foreign exchange rates by creating offsetting exposures. Altria Group, Inc. is not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Financial instruments qualifying
for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. Altria Group, Inc. formally documents the nature and relationships
between the hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Additionally, for hedges of forecasted transactions,
the significant characteristics and expected terms of the forecasted transaction must be specifically identified, and it must be probable that each forecasted transaction will occur. If it were deemed probable that the forecasted transaction will
not   
         107   

Table of Contents  

occur, the gain or loss would be recognized in earnings currently. Altria Group, Inc. had no derivative activity during the year ended December 31, 2010. During the years ended
December 31, 2009 and 2008, ineffectiveness related to fair value hedges and cash flow hedges was not material.       Interest Rate
Sensitive Financial Instruments:  At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s total debt was $15.5 billion and $14.4 billion, respectively. The fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s debt is subject to
fluctuations resulting from changes in market interest rates. A 1% increase in market interest rates at December 31, 2010 and 2009, would decrease the fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s total debt by approximately $1.0 billion and $0.9
billion, respectively. A 1% decrease in market interest rates at December 31, 2010 and 2009, would increase the fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s total debt by approximately $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively.   
  Interest rates on borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreements will be based on the LIBOR plus a percentage equal to Altria Group, Inc. s
credit default swap spread subject to certain minimum rates and maximum rates based on the higher of the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt from Standard   Poor s and Moody s. The applicable
minimum and maximum rates based on Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt ratings at December 31, 2010 for the 364-Day Agreement are 1.0% and 2.25%, respectively. The applicable minimum and maximum rates based on
Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt ratings at December 31, 2010 for the 3-Year Agreement are 2.0% and 4.0%, respectively. At December 31, 2010 Altria Group, Inc. had no borrowings under its Revolving Credit
Agreements.       Contingencies       See Note 21 and
Item 3 for a discussion of contingencies.       Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results    
   Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements    
  We   *    may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in filings with the SEC, in reports to security holders and in press releases and investor webcasts. You can
identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such as  strategy,   expects,   continues,   plans,   anticipates,   believes,   will,   estimates, 
 forecasts,   intends,   projects,   goals,   targets  and other words of similar meaning. You can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
     We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and
assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary
materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested in Altria Group, Inc. s securities. In connection with the
 safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those
contained in any forward-looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. We elaborate on these and other risks we face throughout this document, particularly in the  Business
Environment  sections preceding our discussion of operating results of our subsidiaries  businesses. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following
to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time.                  Tobacco-Related Litigation: 
Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including PM USA and UST, as well as their respective indemnitees.
Various types of claims are raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband shipments, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors and
distributors.      Litigation is subject to uncertainty and it is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending cases. An
unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation. Damages claimed in some tobacco-related litigation are significant and, in certain cases, range in the billions of
dollars. The variability in pleadings, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome. In certain cases,
plaintiffs claim that defendants' liability is joint and several. In such cases, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries may face the risk that one or more co-defendants decline or otherwise fail to participate in the bonding required for an
appeal or to pay their proportionate or jury-allocated share of a judgment. As a result, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries under certain circumstances may have to pay more than their proportionate share of any bonding- or
judgment-related amounts.              Although PM USA has historically been able to obtain required bonds or
relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases. This risk has been substantially
reduced given that 43 states now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all. As discussed in Note 21 and Item 3, tobacco litigation plaintiffs have challenged the constitutionality of Florida s bond cap

*   
        This section uses the terms
 we,   our  and  us  when it is not necessary to distinguish among Altria Group, Inc. and its various operating subsidiaries or when any distinction is clear from the context.      
         108   

Table of Contents  

statute in several cases and plaintiffs may challenge other state bond cap statutes. Although we cannot predict the outcome of such challenges, it is possible that the consolidated results of
operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome of one or more such challenges.
     Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have achieved substantial success in managing litigation. Nevertheless, litigation is subject to
uncertainty and significant challenges remain. It is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular
fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. Altria Group, Inc. and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases,
that it has valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts. Each of the companies has defended, and will continue to defend, vigorously against litigation challenges. However, Altria Group,
Inc. and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of Altria Group, Inc. to do so. See Note 21, Item 3 and Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to Altria Group Inc. s 2010 Form
10-K for a discussion of pending tobacco-related litigation.   
          
    Tobacco Regulation and Control Action in the Public and Private Sectors:  Our tobacco subsidiaries face significant governmental action, including efforts aimed at reducing the incidence of tobacco use, restricting marketing
and advertising, imposing regulations on packaging, warnings and disclosure of flavors or other ingredients, prohibiting the sale of tobacco products with certain characterizing flavors or other characteristics, limiting or prohibiting the sale of
tobacco products by certain retail establishments and the sale of tobacco products in certain packing sizes, and seeking to hold them responsible for the adverse health effects associated with both smoking and exposure to environmental
tobacco smoke.      PM USA, USSTC and other Altria Group, Inc. subsidiaries are subject to and may become subject to regulation by the
FDA, as discussed further in  Tobacco Space   Business Environment   FDA Regulation . We cannot predict how the FDA will implement and enforce its statutory authority, including by promulgating additional regulations and pursuing
possible investigatory or enforcement actions.      Governmental actions, combined with the diminishing social acceptance of smoking and
private actions to restrict smoking, have resulted in reduced cigarette industry volume, and we expect that these factors will continue to reduce cigarette consumption levels. Actions by the FDA or other federal, state or local governments or
agencies may impact the consumer acceptability of tobacco products, limit adult consumer choices, delay or prevent the launch of new or modified tobacco products, restrict communications to adult consumers, restrict the ability to differentiate
tobacco products, create a competitive advantage or disadvantage for certain tobacco companies, impose additional manufacturing, labeling or packing requirements, require the recall or removal of tobacco products from the marketplace or otherwise
significantly increase the cost of doing business, all or any of which may have a material adverse impact on the results of operations or financial condition of Altria Group, Inc.                  Excise Taxes : Tobacco
products are subject to substantial excise taxes and significant increases in tobacco product-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States at the state, federal and
local levels. Tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of our tobacco products due to lower consumption levels and to a potential shift in consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments
or to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products. For further discussion, see  Tobacco Space   Business Environment   Excise Taxes .   
          
    Increased Competition in the United States Tobacco Categories:  Each of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries operates in highly competitive tobacco categories. Settlements of certain tobacco litigation in the United
States have resulted in substantial cigarette price increases. PM USA faces competition from lowest priced brands sold by certain United States and foreign manufacturers that have cost advantages because they are not parties to these settlements.
These manufacturers may fail to comply with related state escrow legislation or may avoid escrow deposit obligations on the majority of their sales by concentrating on certain states where escrow deposits are not required or are required on fewer
than all such manufacturers  cigarettes sold in such states. Additional competition has resulted from diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third
parties, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes, and increased imports of foreign lowest priced brands. USSTC faces significant competition in the smokeless
tobacco category, both from existing competitors and new entrants, and has experienced consumer down-trading to lower-priced brands. In the cigar category, additional competition has resulted from increased imports of machine-made large cigars
manufactured offshore.                  Governmental Investigations:  From time to time, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters. We cannot predict
whether new investigations may be commenced or the outcome of such investigations, and it is possible that our subsidiaries  businesses could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome of future investigations.   
          
    New Tobacco Product Technologies:  Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries continue to seek ways to develop and to commercialize new tobacco product technologies that may reduce the health risks associated with current
tobacco products, while continuing to offer adult tobacco consumers products that meet their taste expectations. Potential solutions being researched include tobacco products that reduce or   
         109   

Table of Contents  

eliminate exposure to cigarette smoke and/or constituents identified by public health authorities as harmful. Our tobacco subsidiaries may not succeed in these efforts. If they do not succeed,
but one or more of their competitors does, our subsidiaries may be at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we cannot predict whether regulators, including the FDA, will permit the marketing of tobacco products with claims of reduced risk to
consumers or whether consumers  purchase decisions would be affected by such claims, which could affect the commercial viability of any tobacco products that might be developed.                  Adjacency Strategy:  Altria
Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have adjacency growth strategies involving moves and potential moves into complementary products or processes. We cannot guarantee that these strategies, or any products introduced in connection with these
strategies, will be successful.                  Tobacco Price, Availability and Quality:  Any significant change in tobacco leaf prices, quality or availability could affect our tobacco subsidiaries  profitability
and business. For a discussion of factors that influence leaf prices, availability and quality, see  Tobacco Space   Business Environment   Tobacco Price, Availability and Quality .   
          
    Tobacco Key Facilities; Supply Security:  Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries face risks inherent in reliance on a few significant facilities and a small number of significant suppliers. A natural or man-made
disaster or other disruption that affects the manufacturing facilities of any of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries or the facilities of any significant suppliers of any of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries could adversely
impact the operations of the affected subsidiaries. An extended interruption in operations experienced by one or more Altria Group, Inc. subsidiaries or significant suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the results of
operations and financial condition of Altria Group, Inc.   
          
    Attracting and Retaining Talent:  Our ability to implement our strategy of attracting and retaining the best talent may be impaired by the decreasing social acceptance of tobacco usage. The tobacco industry competes for talent
with the consumer products industry and other companies that enjoy greater societal acceptance. As a result, our tobacco subsidiaries may be unable to attract and retain the best talent.   
          
    Competition, Evolving Consumer Preferences and Economic Downturns:  Each of our tobacco and wine subsidiaries is subject to intense competition, changes in consumer preferences and changes in economic conditions. To be
successful, they must continue to:   
           promote
 brand equity successfully;               anticipate and respond to new and evolving consumer preferences;               develop new products and markets and to broaden brand portfolios in order to compete
effectively with lower-priced products;   
           improve
 productivity; and               protect or enhance margins through cost savings and price increases.      The
willingness of adult consumers to purchase premium consumer product brands depends in part on economic conditions. In periods of economic uncertainty, adult consumers may purchase more discount brands and/or, in the case of tobacco products,
consider lower-priced tobacco products. The volumes of our tobacco and wine subsidiaries could suffer accordingly.      Our finance
subsidiary, PMCC, holds investments in finance leases, principally in transportation (including aircraft), power generation and manufacturing equipment and facilities. Its lessees are also subject to intense competition and economic conditions. If
parties to PMCC s leases fail to manage through difficult economic and competitive conditions, PMCC may have to increase its allowance for losses, which would adversely affect our earnings.   
          
    Acquisitions:  Altria Group, Inc. from time to time considers acquisitions. From time to time we may engage in confidential acquisition negotiations that are not publicly announced unless and until those negotiations result in
a definitive agreement. Although we seek to maintain or improve our credit ratings over time, it is possible that completing a given acquisition or other event could impact our credit ratings or the outlook for those ratings. Furthermore,
acquisition opportunities are limited, and acquisitions present risks of failing to achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings. There can be no assurance that we will be
able to continue to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms, that we will realize any of the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or that acquisitions will be quickly accretive to earnings.   
          
    Capital Markets:  Access to the capital markets is important for us to satisfy our liquidity and financing needs. Disruption and uncertainty in the capital markets and any resulting tightening of credit availability, pricing
and/or credit terms may negatively affect the amount of credit available to us and may also increase our costs and adversely affect our earnings or our dividend rate.                  Exchange Rates:  For purposes
of financial reporting, the equity earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. s investment in SABMiller are translated into U.S. dollars from various local currencies based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. During
times of a strengthening U.S. dollar against these currencies, our reported equity earnings in SABMiller will be reduced because the local currencies will translate into fewer U.S. dollars.                  Asset Impairment:  We
periodically calculate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets to test for impairment. This calculation may be affected by general economic conditions, regulatory developments, changes in category growth rates as a result of changing
consumer preferences, success of planned new product introductions, competitive activity and tobacco-related taxes. If an impairment is determined to exist, we will incur impairment losses, which
  
         110   

Table of Contents  

will reduce our earnings. For further discussion, see  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   Depreciation, Amortization and Intangible Asset Valuation.    
          
    IRS Challenges to PMCC Leases:  The Internal Revenue Service has challenged the tax treatment of certain of PMCC s leveraged leases. Should Altria Group, Inc. not prevail in any one or more of these matters, Altria Group,
Inc. may have to accelerate the payment of significant amounts of federal income tax, pay associated interest costs and penalties, if imposed, and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the income from the affected
leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year. For further discussion, see Note 21 and Item 3.   
          
    Wine   Competition; Grape Supply; Regulation and Excise Taxes:  Ste. Michelle s business is subject to significant competition, including from many large, well-established national and international
organizations. The adequacy of Ste. Michelle s grape supply is influenced by consumer demand for wine in relation to industry-wide production levels as well as by weather and crop conditions, particularly in eastern Washington state.
Supply shortages related to any one or more of these factors could increase production costs and wine prices, which ultimately may have a negative impact on Ste. Michelle s sales. In addition, federal, state and local governmental agencies
regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various means, including licensing requirements, pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies. New regulations or revisions to existing regulations, resulting
in further restrictions or taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages, may have an adverse effect on Ste. Michelle s wine business. For further discussion, see  Wine Segment   Business Environment .   
         111   

Table of Contents  

     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
             
  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Altria Group, Inc.:   
  In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders  equity, and cash flows, present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2010 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, Altria Group, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in  Internal Control - Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Altria Group, Inc. s management is responsible for
these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.        /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP        Richmond, Virginia   
  January 27, 2011   
         112   

Table of Contents  

     Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
             
  Management of Altria Group, Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Internal control over financial reporting includes those written policies and procedures that:   
          
 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of Altria Group, Inc.;               provide reasonable assurance that transactions
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America;               provide reasonable assurance that receipts and
expenditures of Altria Group, Inc. are being made only in accordance with the authorization of management and directors of Altria Group, Inc.; and               provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.      Internal control
over financial reporting includes the controls themselves, monitoring and internal auditing practices and actions taken to correct deficiencies as identified.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      Management assessed the effectiveness of Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. Management based this assessment on criteria for effective internal control
over financial reporting described in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Management s assessment included an evaluation of the design
of Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting and testing of the operational effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with the Audit Committee of our
Board of Directors.      Based on this assessment, management determined that, as of December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting.      PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, who
audited and reported on the consolidated financial statements of Altria Group, Inc. included in this report, has audited the effectiveness of Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, as stated
in their report herein.      January 27, 2011   
         113   

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 8
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF ALTRIA GROUP, INC.

Subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. 

Exhibit 21        ALTRIA GROUP, INC. SUBSIDIARIES       Certain active subsidiaries of the
Company and their subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010, are listed below. The names of certain subsidiaries, which considered in the aggregate would not constitute a significant subsidiary, have been omitted.   

Name    
      
   State or     Country
of Organization    
 
    Altria Client Services Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    Altria Consumer Engagement Services Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Altria Enterprises II LLC   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Altria Enterprises LLC   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Altria Import Export Services LLC   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Altria Sales   Distribution Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Col Solare, LLP   
      
  Washington   
 
    Cormorant Energy Investment Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dart Resorts Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    F.W. Rickard Seeds, Inc.   
      
  Kentucky   
 
    General Foods Credit Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Foods Credit Investors No. 1 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Foods Credit Investors No. 2 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Foods Credit Investors No. 3 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Grant Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Grant Transit Co.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    HNB Investment Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    International Smokeless Tobacco Company Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    International Wine   Spirits Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    John Middleton Co.   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Management Subsidiary Holdings Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Michelle-Antinori, LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Michigan Investment Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    National Smokeless Tobacco Company Ltd.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Philip Morris Capital Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Philip Morris Duty Free Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Philip Morris USA Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    PMCC Investors No. 1 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PMCC Investors No. 2 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PMCC Investors No. 3 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PMCC Investors No. 4 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PMCC Leasing Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Profigen do Brazil LDTA   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Profigen Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SB Leasing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd.   
      
  Washington   
 
    TMLLC, Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Trademarks LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Trimaran Leasing Investors, L.L.C.-II   
      
  Delaware   
 
    U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Brands Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC   
      
  Virginia   
 
    U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Manufacturing Company LLC   
      
  Virginia   
 
    U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Products LLC   
      
  Virginia   
 
    UST LLC   
      
  Virginia    

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of independent registered public accounting firm 

Exhibit 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby consent to the
incorporation by reference in Post-Effective Amendment No. 13 to the Registration Statement of Altria Group, Inc. on Form S-14 (File No. 2-96149) and in Altria Group, Inc. s Registration Statements on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-35143 and
333-155009) and Form S-8 (File Nos. 333-28631, 33-10218, 33-13210, 33-14561, 33-48781, 33-59109, 333-43478, 333-43484, 333-128494, 333-139523, 333-148070, 333-156188, 333-167516 and 333-170185), of our report dated January 27, 2011 relating to
the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Altria Group, Inc., which appears in the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Form
10-K ). We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated January 27, 2011 relating to the financial statement schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 10
 dex24.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY

Powers of attorney 

Exhibit 24         POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the
undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of
them, her true and lawful attorney, for her and in her name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2010
and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference
therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto set her hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2011.   

/ S / E LIZABETH  E. B AILEY    
 
  Elizabeth E. Bailey    

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and
stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2010 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause
the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do
and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things
which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has
hereunto set his hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2011.        

/ S / G ERALD  L. B ALILES    
 
  Gerald L. Baliles    

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and
stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2010 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause
the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do
and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things
which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has
hereunto set his hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2011.        

/ S / J OHN  T. C ASTEEN  III   
 
  John T. Casteen III    

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and
stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2010 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause
the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do
and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things
which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has
hereunto set his hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2011.        

/ S / T HOMAS  F. F ARRELL  II   
 
  Thomas F. Farrell II    

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and
stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2010 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause
the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do
and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things
which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has
hereunto set his hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2011.        

/ S / D INYAR  S. D EVITRE    
 
  Dinyar S. Devitre    

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and
stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2010 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause
the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do
and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things
which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has
hereunto set his hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2011.        

/ S / R OBERT  E. R. H UNTLEY    
 
  Robert E. R. Huntley    

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and
stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2010 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause
the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do
and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things
which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has
hereunto set his hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2011.        

/ S / T HOMAS  W. J ONES    
 
  Thomas W. Jones    

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and
stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2010 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause
the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do
and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things
which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has
hereunto set his hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2011.        

/ S / G EORGE  M U OZ    
 
  George Mu oz    

POWER OF ATTORNEY     
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the
 Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Michael E. Szymanczyk, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and
stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2010 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause
the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do
and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things
which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has
hereunto set his hand and seal this 24th day of February, 2011.        

/ S / N ABIL  Y. S AKKAB    
 
  Nabil Y. Sakkab    

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 11
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) 

Exhibit 31.1       Certifications      I, Michael E. Szymanczyk, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Altria Group, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.         

Date: February 24, 2011  
     
    /s/ MICHAEL E. SZYMANCZYK    

Michael E. Szymanczyk    

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 12
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) 

Exhibit 31.2       Certifications      I, Howard A. Willard III, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Altria Group, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.         

Date: February 24, 2011  
     
    /s/ HOWARD A. WILLARD III    

Howard A. Willard III    

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 13
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. 1350

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of
Altria Group, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Michael E. Szymanczyk, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

/s/ MICHAEL E. SZYMANCZYK    
 
    Michael E. Szymanczyk    
 
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    
 
    February 24, 2011         A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the
electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Altria Group, Inc. and will be retained by Altria Group, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request .

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 14
 dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. 1350

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of
Altria Group, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Howard A. Willard III, Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   

/s/ HOWARD A. WILLARD III    
 
    Howard A. Willard III    
 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    
 
    February 24, 2011         A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the
electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Altria Group, Inc. and will be retained by Altria Group, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request .

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.1>
 15
 dex991.htm
 CERTAIN LITIGATION MATTERS

Certain Litigation Matters 

Exhibit 99.1       CERTAIN LITIGATION MATTERS      As described in Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  to this Form
10-K and Note 21.  Contingencies  to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements, there are legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against
Altria Group, Inc., its subsidiaries, including Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), and their respective indemnitees. Various types of claims are raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax,
contraband shipments, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors and distributors. Pending claims related to tobacco products generally fall within the following categories: (i) smoking and health
cases alleging personal injury brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs, (ii) smoking and health cases primarily alleging personal injury or seeking court-supervised programs for ongoing medical monitoring and purporting to be brought on
behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs, including cases in which the aggregated claims of a number of individual plaintiffs are to be tried in a single proceeding, (iii) health care cost recovery cases brought by governmental (both domestic
and foreign) and non-governmental plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking and/or disgorgement of profits, (iv) class action suits alleging that the uses of the terms  Lights 
and  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud or RICO violations, (v) international cases, and (vi) other tobacco-related litigation.   
  The following lists certain of the pending claims against Altria Group, Inc., PM USA, UST LLC ( UST ) and/or UST s subsidiaries included
in these categories.      SMOKING AND HEALTH LITIGATION      The following lists the consolidated individual smoking and health cases as well as smoking and health class actions pending against PM USA and, in some cases, Altria Group, Inc. and/or its other
subsidiaries and affiliates, as of February 18, 2011. See  International Cases  below for a list of smoking and health class actions pending in Canada.       Consolidated Individual Smoking and Health Cases        In re: Tobacco Litigation (Individual
Personal Injury cases), Circuit Court, Ohio County, West Virginia, consolidated January 11, 2000.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this litigation.       Flight Attendant Litigation       The settlement agreement entered into in 1997 in the case of
 Broin, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al. , which was brought by flight attendants seeking damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by environmental tobacco smoke, allows members of the  Broin  class to file individual
lawsuits seeking compensatory damages, but prohibits them from seeking punitive damages. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this litigation.       Domestic Class Actions        Engle, et al. v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al., Circuit
Court, Eleventh Judicial Circuit, Dade County, Florida, filed May 5, 1994.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case and the  Engle  progeny litigation.   
   Scott, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, et al., Civil District Court, Orleans Parish, Louisiana, filed May 24, 1996.  See Item 3.
 Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Young, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, et al., Civil District Court,
Orleans Parish, Louisiana, filed November 12, 1997.    

Parsons, et al. v. A C   S, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Kanawha County, West Virginia, filed
February 27, 1998.        Cypret, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, et al., Circuit Court, Jackson County, Missouri, filed
December 22, 1998.        Simms, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., United States District Court, District of Columbia, filed
May 23, 2001 .       Caronia, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., United States District Court, Eastern District, New York, filed
January 13, 2006.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Donovan, et al. v. Philip Morris,
United States District Court, District of Massachusetts, filed March 2, 2007.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Xavier, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., United States District Court, Northern District, California, filed May 14, 2010.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this
case.       Gargano, et al., v. Philip Morris USA Inc., United States District Court, Southern District, Florida, filed November 9,
2010.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.      HEALTH CARE COST RECOVERY LITIGATION   
  The following lists the health care cost recovery actions pending against PM USA and, in some cases, Altria Group, Inc. and/or its other subsidiaries and
affiliates as of February 18, 2011. See  International Cases  below for a list of international health care cost recovery actions.   
   City of St. Louis Case        City of St.
Louis, et al. v. American Tobacco, et al., Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri, filed November 23, 1998 . See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.   
   Medicare Secondary Payer Act Case    
   National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, et al. v. Philip Morris USA, et al., United States District Court, Eastern District, New
York, filed May 20, 2008.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Master Settlement
Agreement-Related Cases        State of Montana v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., Montana First Judicial District Court, Lewis and Clark
County, filed May 8, 2006.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Vibo Corp. v. Conway, et al.,
United States District Court, Western District, Kentucky, filed October 28, 2008.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Possible Adjustments in MSA Payments for 2003 to 2009       See Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings  for a discussion of this matter.       Department of Justice Case        The United States of America v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., United States District Court, District of Columbia, filed September 22, 1999 . See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for
a discussion of this case.   
         2   

LIGHTS/ULTRA LIGHTS  CASES      The following lists the  Lights/Ultra Lights  cases pending against Altria Group, Inc. and/or its various subsidiaries and others as of February 18, 2011. See  International Cases 
below for a reference to one  Lights  action pending in Israel.       Cleary, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., United
States District Court, Northern District, Illinois, filed June 3, 1998.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Aspinall, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc. and Philip Morris Incorporated, Superior Court, Suffolk County, Massachusetts, filed November 24, 1998 . See Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Price, et al. v. Philip Morris Inc., Circuit Court, Third Judicial Circuit, Madison County,
Illinois, filed February 10, 2000.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Larsen, et al. v.
Philip Morris Inc.  (formerly known as  Craft, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al.), Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri, filed February 15, 2000 . See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this
case.       Hines, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Fifteenth Judicial Circuit, Palm Beach County, Florida, filed
February 23, 2001 . See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Moore, et al. v. Philip Morris
Incorporated, et al., Circuit Court, Marshall County, West Virginia, filed September 17, 2001.        Curtis, et al. v. Philip Morris
Companies Inc., et al., Fourth Judicial District Court, Minnesota, filed November 28, 2001 . See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.         Lawrence, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated ( formerly known as  Tremblay, et al., v. Philip Morris Incorporated), Superior Court, Rockingham County, New Hampshire, filed March 29,
2002.    See Item 3.    Legal Proceedings    for a discussion of this case.          Pearson v. Philip Morris
Incorporated, et al., Circuit Court, Multnomah County, Oregon, filed November 20, 2002 . See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Virden v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Hancock County, West Virginia, filed March 28, 2003.        Stern, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., Superior Court, Middlesex County, New Jersey, filed April 4, 2003.        Arnold, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., Circuit Court, Madison County, Illinois, filed May 5, 2003.        Watson, et al. v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Pulaski County, Arkansas, filed May 29, 2003.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.   
   Holmes, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., Superior Court, New Castle County, Delaware, filed August 18, 2003.  See Item 3.
 Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Kelly v. Martin   Bayley, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Madison County,
Illinois, filed February 4, 2005.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Mulford, et al. v.
Altria Group, Inc., et al., United States District Court, New Mexico, filed June 9, 2005 . See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.   
         3   

Good, et al. v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., United States District Court, Maine, filed August 15,
2005.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Tang v. Philip Morris USA Inc., United States District
Court, Eastern District, New York, filed December 17, 2008.        Biundo, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., (formerly known as
Goins, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al.), United States District Court, Northern District, Illinois, filed December 23, 2008.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.   
   Tyrer, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., United States District Court, Southern District, California, filed January 14, 2009.
       Domaingue, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., United States District Court, Eastern District, New York, filed March 19,
2009.        Wyatt, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., (formerly Nikolic, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al.), United States
District Court, Eastern District, Wisconsin, filed June 16, 2009.        Mirick, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., United States
District Court, Southern District, Mississippi, filed July 2, 2009.        Williams v. Altria Group, Inc., United States District Court,
Eastern District, Arkansas, filed July 6, 2009.        Slater, et al. v. PM USA, et al., United States District Court, District of
Columbia, filed November 12, 2009.        Corse, et al. v. PM USA, et al., United States District Court, Middle District, Tennessee,
filed November 25, 2009.        Parsons, et al. v. PM USA, et al., United States District Court, District of Columbia, filed
December 2, 2009.        Haubrich, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., United States District Court, Eastern District, Pennsylvania, filed
December 9, 2009.        Calistro, et al. v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., United States District Court, Virgin Islands, Division of St.
Thomas   St. John, filed July 7, 2010.  See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a discussion of this case.       Phillips, et
al. v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., United States District Court, Northern District, Ohio, filed August 9, 2010.        McClure, et al.
v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., United States District Court, Maine, filed September 17, 2010.       Many of the cases above have been
consolidated by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation in the United States District Court for the District of Maine. For a discussion of this consolidated proceeding, see Item 3.  Legal Proceedings .   
  INTERNATIONAL CASES       Canada    
   Her Majesty the Queen in Right of British Columbia v. Imperial Tobacco Limited, et al., Supreme Court, British Columbia, Vancouver Registry, Canada,
filed January 24, 2001.  Health care cost recovery action. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.      
         4   

Her Majesty the Queen in Right of the Province of New Brunswick v. Rothmans, Inc., et al., Court of the
Queen s Bench of New Brunswick Judicial District of Fredericton, Canada, filed March 13, 2008.  Health care cost recovery action. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.   
   Dorion v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., Court of Queen s Bench of Alberta, Judicial District of Calgary, Canada, filed on
or about June 17, 2009.  Smoking and health class action. See Item 3.    Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Semple v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., Supreme Court of Nova Scotia, Canada, filed on or about June 18, 2009.  Smoking and health class action. See Item 3.
 Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Kunta v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., Court of
Queen s Bench of Manitoba, Winnipeg Centre, Canada, filed on an unknown date in June 2009 .   Smoking and health class action. See Item 3.    Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.   
   Adams v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., Court of Queen s Bench for Saskatchewan, Judicial Centre of Regina, Canada, filed
on or about July 10, 2009.  Smoking and health class action. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.   
   Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Ontario v. Rothmans Inc., et al., Superior Court of Justice of Ontario, Canada, filed on or about September 30,
2009.  Health care cost recovery action. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.       Bourassa v. Imperial
Tobacco Canada Limited, et al., Supreme Court of British Columbia, Vancouver Registry, Canada, filed on or about June 25, 2010.    Smoking and health class action. See Item 3.    Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of
this case.       McDermid v. Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited, et al., Supreme Court of British Columbia, Vancouver Registry, Canada, filed on or
about June 25, 2010.  Smoking and health class action. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.   
   Israel        Kupat Holim Clalit v. Philip
Morris USA, et al., Jerusalem District Court, Israel, filed September 28, 1998 . Health care cost recovery case. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.   
   El-Roy, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., District Court of Tel-Aviv/Jaffa, Israel, filed January 18, 2004 .  Lights 
case. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of this case.        See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a
discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI, which provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products.        CERTAIN OTHER TOBACCO-RELATED ACTIONS      The following lists certain other tobacco-related
litigation pending against Altria Group, Inc. and/or its various subsidiaries as of February 18, 2011. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a discussion of these cases.       Tobacco Price Cases        Smith, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al., District
Court, Seward County, Kansas, filed February 9, 2000 .   
         5   

Cases under the California Business and Professions Code    
   Brown, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, Inc., et al., Superior Court, San Diego County, California, filed June 10, 1997.    
   Ignition Propensity Cases        Sarro v.
Philip Morris USA Inc., United States District Court, Massachusetts, filed December 20, 2007 .       Walker, et al. v. Philip Morris USA,
Inc., et al., United States District Court, Western District, Kentucky, filed February 1, 2008 .      UST LITIGATION   
  The following action is pending against UST and/or its subsidiaries as of February 18, 2011. See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for a
discussion of this case.       Vassallo v. United States Tobacco Co., et al .,  Circuit Court of the Judicial District, Miami-Dade County,
Florida ,  filed November 12, 2002.     
         6   

</EX-99.1>

<EX-99.2>
 16
 dex992.htm
 TRIAL SCHEDULE FOR CERTAIN CASES

Trial Schedule for Certain Cases 

Exhibit 99.2        TRIAL SCHEDULE FOR CERTAIN CASES       Below is a schedule, as of February 24, 2011,
setting forth by month the number of individual smoking and health cases against PM USA that are scheduled for trial through the end of 2011.   
   2011        
    As of February 24, 2011, no  Engle 
progeny cases were in trial.      Other Individual Smoking   Health   

</EX-99.2>

<EX-99.3>
 17
 dex993.htm
 DEFINITIONS OF TERMS RELATED TO FINANCIAL COVENANTS

Definitions of Terms Related to Financial Covenants 

Exhibit 99.3       DEFINITIONS OF TERMS RELATED TO FINANCIAL COVENANTS INCLUDED IN ALTRIA GROUP, INC. S 364-DAY REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT AND ALTRIA GROUP, INC. S 3-YEAR REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT   
  The following definitions have been extracted from Altria Group, Inc. s 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of
November 17, 2010, attached as an exhibit to Altria Group, Inc. s Form 8-K filed on November 17, 2010, and Altria Group, Inc. s 3-Year Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2009, attached as an exhibit to
Altria Group, Inc. s Form 8-K filed on November 23, 2009.       Consolidated EBITDA  means, for any accounting
period, the consolidated net earnings (or loss) of Altria and its Subsidiaries plus, without duplication and to the extent included as a separate item on Altria s consolidated statements of earnings or consolidated statements of cash flows in
the case of clauses (a) through (e) for such period, the sum of (a) provision for income taxes, (b) interest and other debt expense, net, (c) depreciation expense, (d) amortization of intangibles, (e) any
extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring expenses or losses or any similar expense or loss subtracted from  Gross profit  in the calculation of  Operating income  and (f) the portion of loss included on Altria s
consolidated statements of earnings of any Person (other than a Subsidiary of Altria) in which Altria or any of its Subsidiaries has an ownership interest and any cash that is actually received by Altria or such Subsidiary from such Person in the
form of dividends or similar distributions, and minus, without duplication, the sum of (x) to the extent included as a separate item on Altria s consolidated statements of earnings for such period, any extraordinary, unusual or
non-recurring income or gains or any similar income or gain added to  Gross profit  in the calculation of  Operating income,  and (y) the portion of income included on Altria s consolidated statements of earnings of any
Person (other than a Subsidiary of Altria) in which Altria or any of its Subsidiaries has an ownership interest, except to the extent that any cash is actually received by Altria or such Subsidiary from such Person in the form of dividends or
similar distributions, all as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for such period, except that if there has been a material change in an accounting principle as compared
to that applied in the preparation of the financial statements of Altria and its Subsidiaries as at and for the year ended December 31, 2009 per Altria Group, Inc. s 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement and as at and for the year ended
December 31, 2008 per Altria Group, Inc. s 3-Year Revolving Credit Agreement, then such new accounting principle shall not be used in the determination of Consolidated EBITDA. A material change in an accounting principle is one that,
in the year of its adoption, changes Consolidated EBITDA for any quarter in such year by more than 10%.       Consolidated
Interest Expense  means, for any accounting period, total interest expense of Altria and its Subsidiaries with respect to all outstanding Debt of Altria and its Subsidiaries during such period, all as determined on a consolidated basis for such
period and in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for such period, except that if there has been a material change in an accounting principle as compared to that applied in the preparation of the financial
statements of Altria and its Subsidiaries as at and for the year ended December 31, 2009 per Altria Group, Inc. s 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement and as at and for the year ended December 31, 2008 per Altria Group,
Inc. s 3-Year Revolving Credit Agreement, then such new accounting principle shall not be used in the determination of Consolidated Interest Expense. A material change in an accounting principle is one that, in the year of its adoption, changes
Consolidated Interest Expense for any quarter in such year by more than 10%.       Debt  means, without duplication,
(a) indebtedness for borrowed money or for the deferred purchase price of property or services, whether or not evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (b) obligations as lessee under leases that, in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, are recorded as capital leases, (c) obligations as an account party or applicant under letters of credit (other than trade letters of credit incurred in the ordinary course of
business) to the extent such letters of credit are drawn and not reimbursed within five Business Days of such drawing, (d) the aggregate principal (or equivalent) amount of financing raised through outstanding securitization financings of
accounts receivable, and (e) obligations under direct or indirect guaranties in respect of, and obligations   

(contingent or otherwise) to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise to assure a creditor against loss (including by way of (i) granting a security interest or other Lien on property or
(ii) having a reimbursement obligation under or in respect of a letter of credit or similar arrangement (to the extent such letter of credit is not collateralized by assets (other than Operating Assets) having a fair value equal to the amount
of such reimbursement obligation), in any case in respect of, indebtedness or obligations of any other Person of the kinds referred to in clause (a), (b), (c) or (d) above). For the avoidance of doubt, the following shall not constitute
 Debt  for purposes of this Agreement: (A) any obligation that is fully non-recourse to Altria or any of its Subsidiaries, (B) intercompany debt of Altria or any of its Subsidiaries, (C) any appeal bond or other arrangement
to secure a stay of execution on a judgment or order, provided that any such appeal bond or other arrangement issued by a third party in connection with such arrangement shall constitute Debt to the extent Altria or any of its Subsidiaries has a
reimbursement obligation to such third party that is not collateralized by assets (other than Operating Assets) having a fair value equal to the amount of such reimbursement obligation, (D) unpaid judgments, or (E) defeased indebtedness.

</EX-99.3>

<EX-101.INS>
 18
 mo-20101231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 19
 mo-20101231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 20
 mo-20101231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 21
 mo-20101231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 22
 mo-20101231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 23
 mo-20101231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

