<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090227_10-K_edgar_data_72971_0000950134-09-003967_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3790805</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>752414</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>31988</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1794906</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>138</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-09-003967.hdr.sgml : 20090227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090227124920
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-09-003967
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WELLS FARGO & CO/MN
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000072971
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				410449260
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02979
		FILM NUMBER:		09641092

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		420 MONTGOMERY STREET
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94163
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6126671234

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		WELLS FARGO & COMPANY
		STREET 2:		420 MONTGOMERY STREET
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94163

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NORWEST CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NORTHWEST BANCORPORATION
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19830516

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Nu6yMwgU3dait/3+6UCNEkKfgocS3lOxNIodMuJe7B9+0Wa89a2h84qtvpAbZ6j2
 bq6NNUKHLX6OeMPvRz0TVA==

 0000950134-09-003967.txt : 20090227

10-K
 1
 f51597e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form 10-K 

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008                     Commission File Number 001-2979

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

420 Montgomery Street, San Francisco, California 94163 
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 1-866-878-5865

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Name of Each Exchange 

Title of Each Class

on Which Registered

Common Stock, par value $1-2/3

New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/40 th  interest in a
shares of 8.00% Non- 
Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series J

NYSE 

7.5% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A Preferred Stock, Series L

NYSE 

See list of additional securities listed on the NYSE and the NYSE Alternext U.S. on the page
directly following this cover page.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 

Dividend Equalization Preferred Shares, no par value

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.      Yes             No           

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes            No            

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2)
has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.            Yes             No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.              

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated
filer,   accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
(Check one):

Large accelerated filer    

Accelerated filer     

Non-accelerated filer    

Smaller reporting company     

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell Company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).

Yes            No            

At June 30, 2008, the aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates was
approximately $77.5 billion, based on a closing price of $23.75. At January 31, 2009, 4,237,777,218
shares of common stock were outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference in Form 10-K 

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS   
     ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   
     ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   
     ITEM 2. PROPERTIES   
     ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
     ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   
   PART II   
     ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   
     ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
     ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
     ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   
     ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   
     ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   
     ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
     ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION   
   PART III   
     ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   
     ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
     ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   
     ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE   
     ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES   
   PART IV   
     ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   
   SIGNATURES   
   EXHIBIT INDEX   
   EX-10.(Q)   
   EX-10.(W)   
   EX-10.(X)   
   EX-10.(Y)   
   EX-12.(A)   
   EX-12.(B)   
   EX-13   
   EX-21   
   EX-23   
   EX-24   
   EX-31.(A)   
   EX-31.(B)   
   EX-32.(A)   
   EX-32.(B)   

Table of Contents   

Additional securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act: 

Name of Each Exchange 

Title of Each Class

on Which Registered

Basket Linked Notes due April 15, 2009

NYSE Alternext U.S. 

Callable Notes Linked to the S P 500    Index due August 25, 2009

NYSE Alternext U.S. 

Notes Linked to the Dow Jones Industrial Average SM  due May 5, 2010

NYSE Alternext U.S. 

Participating Index Notes (PINS) TEES Targeted Efficient Equity Securities
Linked to the S P 500    Index due August 19, 2009

NYSE Alternext U.S. 

ASTROS (ASseT Return Obligation Securities) Linked to the Nikkei 225(R)
Index Due March 2, 2010

NYSE Alternext U.S. 

ASTROS (ASseT Return Obligation Securities) Linked to a Global Basket of
Indices due February 2, 2010

NYSE Alternext U.S. 

ASTROS (ASseT Return Obligation Securities) Linked to the Dow Jones Global
Titans 50 Index due March 3, 2010

NYSE Alternext U.S. 

ASTROS (ASseT Return Obligation Securities) Linked to the Global Equity
Basket (Series 2005-2) due May 5, 2010

NYSE Alternext U.S. 

Exchangeable Notes Linked to the Common Stock of Three Oil Industry
Companies due December 15, 2010

NYSE Alternext U.S. 

ASTROS (ASseT Return Obligation Securities) Linked to the Metals   China
Basket due January 28, 2009

NYSE Alternext U.S. 

Guarantee of 7.0% Capital Securities of Wells Fargo Capital IV

NYSE 

Guarantee of 5.85% Trust Preferred Securities (TRUPS   ) of Wells
Fargo Capital VII

NYSE 

Guarantee of 5.625% Trust Preferred Securities of Wells Fargo Capital VIII

NYSE 

Guarantee of 5.625% Trust Originated Preferred Securities
(TOPrS SM ) of Wells Fargo Capital IX

NYSE 

Guarantee of 6.25% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities (Enhanced
TruPS   ) of Wells Fargo Capital XI

NYSE 

Guarantee of 7.875% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities (Enhanced
TruPS   ) of Wells Fargo Capital XII

NYSE 

Guarantee of 7.70% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Purchase
Securities of Wells Fargo Capital XIII

NYSE 

Remarketable 7.50% Junior Subordinated Notes due 2044

NYSE 

Guarantee of 8.625% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities (Enhanced
TruPS   ) of Wells Fargo Capital XIV

NYSE 

Guarantee of 9.75% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Purchase
Securities of Wells Fargo Capital XV

NYSE 

Remarketable 9.25% Junior Subordinated Notes due 2044

NYSE 

Guarantee of 5.80% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Wachovia Income Trust
Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust III

NYSE 

Guarantee of 6.375% Trust Preferred Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust IV

NYSE 

Guarantee of 6.375% Trust Preferred Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust IX

NYSE 

Guarantee of 7.85% Trust Preferred Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust X

NYSE 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 1.        BUSINESS 

Wells Fargo   Company is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware and a financial holding
company and a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as
amended (BHC Act). Its principal business is to act as a holding company for its subsidiaries.
References in this report to  the Parent  mean the holding company. References to  we,   our,   us 
or  the Company  mean the holding company and its subsidiaries that are consolidated for financial
reporting purposes.

We are the product of the merger of Norwest Corporation and the former Wells Fargo   Company,
completed on November 2, 1998. On completion of the merger, Norwest Corporation changed its name to
Wells Fargo   Company. On December 31, 2008, we acquired Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia)  in a transaction valued at $12.5 billion to Wachovia
shareholders. Wachovia, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, was one of the nation s largest
diversified financial services companies, providing a broad range of retail banking and brokerage,
asset and wealth management, and corporate and investment banking products and services to
customers through 3,300 financial centers in 21 states from Connecticut to Florida and west to
Texas and California, and nationwide retail brokerage, mortgage lending and auto finance
businesses.

We expand our business, in part, by acquiring banking institutions and other companies engaged in
activities that are financial in nature. We continue to explore opportunities to acquire banking
institutions and other financial services companies, and discussions related to possible
acquisitions may occur at any time. We cannot predict whether, or on what terms, discussions will
result in further acquisitions. As a matter of policy, we generally do not comment on any
discussions or possible acquisitions until a definitive acquisition agreement has been signed.

At December 31, 2008, we had assets of $1.3 trillion, loans of $865 billion, deposits of
$781 billion and stockholders  equity of $99 billion. Based on assets, we were the fourth largest
bank holding company in the United States. At December 31, 2008, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. was the
Company s principal subsidiary with assets of $539 billion, or 41% of the Company s assets. As part
of our acquisition with Wachovia, we also held the assets of Wachovia Bank, N.A., which totaled
$635 billion at December 31, 2008.

At December 31, 2008, we had 158,900 active, full-time equivalent team members. With the
acquisition of Wachovia, we now have more than 281,000 active team members.

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports, are available free at www.wellsfargo.com (select  About Us,  then
 Investor Relations   More,  then  SEC Filings ) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They are
also available free on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov.

1 

Table of Contents   

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 

General 

We are a diversified financial services company. We provide retail, commercial and corporate
banking services through banking stores located in 39 states and the District of Columbia: Alabama,
Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Idaho,
Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Montana, Nebraska,
Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania,
South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington, Wisconsin and Wyoming.
We provide other financial services through subsidiaries engaged in various businesses,
principally: wholesale banking, mortgage banking, consumer finance, equipment leasing, agricultural
finance, commercial finance, securities brokerage and investment banking, insurance agency and
brokerage services, computer and data processing services, trust services, investment advisory
services, mortgage-backed securities servicing and venture capital investment.

We have three operating segments for management reporting purposes: Community Banking, Wholesale
Banking and Wells Fargo Financial. The 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders includes financial
information and descriptions of these operating segments.

Competition 

The financial services industry is highly competitive. Our subsidiaries compete with financial
services providers, such as banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies,
mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, and mutual fund companies. They also face
increased competition from nonbank institutions such as brokerage houses, as well as from financial
services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. Many of these competitors enjoy
fewer regulatory constraints and some may have lower cost structures.

Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may
acquire banks and other financial institutions. Combinations of this type could significantly
change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. The financial services industry is
also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to
provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository
institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties.

REGULATION AND SUPERVISION 

We describe below, and in Notes 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions) and 26 (Regulatory and
Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements included in the 2008 Annual Report to
Stockholders, the material elements of the regulatory framework applicable to us. The description
is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations and
policies that are described. Banking statutes, regulations and policies are continually under
review by Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies, and a change
in them, including changes in how they are interpreted or implemented, could have a material effect
on our business. The regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies is

2 

Table of Contents   

intended to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking system
as a whole, not investors in bank holding companies such as the Company.

Statutes, regulations and policies could restrict our ability to diversify into other areas of
financial services, acquire depository institutions, and pay dividends on our capital stock. They
may also require us to provide financial support to one or more of our subsidiary banks, maintain
capital balances in excess of those desired by management, and pay higher deposit insurance
premiums as a result of a general deterioration in the financial condition of depository
institutions.

General 

Parent Bank Holding Company.  As a bank holding company, the Parent is subject to regulation under
the BHC Act and to inspection, examination and supervision by its primary regulator, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board or FRB). The Parent is also subject
to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC. As a listed company
on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Parent is subject to the rules of the NYSE for listed
companies.

Subsidiary Banks.  Our subsidiary national banks are subject to regulation and examination
primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and secondarily by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the FRB. Our subsidiary federal savings banks are subject
to primary regulation and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) and secondarily by
the FDIC and the FRB. Our state-chartered banks are subject to primary federal regulation and
examination by the FDIC and, in addition, are regulated and examined by their respective state
banking departments.

Nonbank Subsidiaries.  Many of our nonbank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the FRB
and other applicable federal and state agencies. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to
regulation by applicable state insurance regulatory agencies, as well as the FRB. Our brokerage
subsidiaries are regulated by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and, in
some cases, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and state securities regulators. FINRA was
formed in July 2007 through a consolidation of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
(NASD) and the member regulation, enforcement and arbitration functions of the NYSE. FINRA is the
largest non-governmental regulator for all securities firms doing business in the United States.
FINRA is responsible for rule writing, firm examination, enforcement, arbitration and mediation
functions previously overseen by the NASD. Our other nonbank subsidiaries may be subject to the
laws and regulations of the federal government and/or the various states as well as foreign
countries in which they conduct business.

Parent Bank Holding Company Activities 

Financial in Nature  Requirement.  As a bank holding company that has elected to become a
financial holding company pursuant to the BHC Act, we may affiliate with securities firms and
insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature or incidental or
complementary to activities that are financial in nature.  Financial in nature  activities include
securities underwriting, dealing and market making, sponsoring mutual funds and investment

3 

Table of Contents   

companies, insurance underwriting and agency, merchant banking, and activities that the FRB, in
consultation with the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, determines from time to time to be financial
in nature or incidental to such financial activity.  Complimentary activities  are activities that
the FRB determines upon application to be complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a
safety and soundness risk.

FRB approval is not required for us to acquire a company (other than a bank holding company, bank
or savings association) engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to
activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. Prior FRB approval is required
before we may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or
substantially all of the assets of a bank holding company, bank or savings association.
Because we are a financial holding company, if any of our subsidiary banks receives a rating under
the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (CRA), of less than satisfactory, we will be
prohibited, until the rating is raised to satisfactory or better, from engaging in new activities
or acquiring companies other than bank holding companies, banks or savings associations, except
that we could engage in new activities, or acquire companies engaged in activities, that are
closely related to banking under the BHC Act. In addition, if the FRB finds that any of our
subsidiary banks is not well capitalized or well managed, we would be required to enter into an
agreement with the FRB to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements and which
may contain additional limitations or conditions. Until corrected, we could be prohibited from
engaging in any new activity or acquiring companies engaged in activities that are not closely
related to banking under the BHC Act without prior FRB approval. If we fail to correct any such
condition within a prescribed period, the FRB could order us to divest our banking subsidiaries or,
in the alternative, to cease engaging in activities other than those closely related to banking
under the BHC Act. 

We became a financial holding company effective March 13, 2000. We continue to maintain our status
as a bank holding company for purposes of other FRB regulations.

Interstate Banking . Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Act (Riegle-Neal Act),
a bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state
requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to
exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company not control, prior to or
following the proposed acquisition, more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured
depository institutions nationwide or, unless the acquisition is the bank holding company s initial
entry into the state, more than 30% of such deposits in the state (or such lesser or greater amount
set by the state).

The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines, thereby creating interstate
branches. Banks are also permitted to acquire and to establish new branches in other states where
authorized under the laws of those states.

Regulatory Approval.  In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank
regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition,
financial condition, and future prospects including current and projected capital ratios and
levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws
and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the

4 

Table of Contents   

acquiring institution s record of compliance under the CRA, and the effectiveness of the acquiring
institution in combating money laundering activities.

Dividend Restrictions 

The Parent is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiary banks and other
subsidiaries. A significant source of funds to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock and
principal and interest on its debt is dividends from its subsidiaries. Various federal and state
statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends the Parent s subsidiary banks
and certain other subsidiaries may pay without regulatory approval. For information about the
restrictions applicable to the Parent s subsidiary banks, see Note 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend
Restrictions) to Financial Statements included in the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders.
Federal bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit the Parent s subsidiary banks from
engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their businesses. The payment of dividends,
depending on the financial condition of the bank in question, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound
practice. The ability of the Parent s subsidiary banks to pay dividends in the future is currently,
and could be further, influenced by bank regulatory policies and capital guidelines.

Holding Company Structure 

Transfer of Funds from Subsidiary Banks.  The Parent s subsidiary banks are subject to restrictions
under federal law that limit the transfer of funds or other items of value from such subsidiaries
to the Parent and its nonbank subsidiaries (including affiliates) in so-called  covered
transactions.  In general, covered transactions include loans and other extensions of credit,
investments and asset purchases, as well as certain other transactions involving the transfer of
value from a subsidiary bank to an affiliate or for the benefit of an affiliate. Unless an
exemption applies, covered transactions by a subsidiary bank with a single affiliate are limited to
10% of the subsidiary bank s capital and surplus and, with respect to all covered transactions with
affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of the subsidiary bank s capital and surplus. Also, loans and
extensions of credit to affiliates generally are required to be secured in specified amounts. A
bank s transactions with its nonbank affiliates are also generally required to be on arm s length
terms.

Source of Strength.  The FRB has a policy that a bank holding company is expected to act as a
source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate
circumstances, to commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be
required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide the support.

The OCC may order an assessment of the Parent if the capital of one of its national bank
subsidiaries were to become impaired. If the Parent failed to pay the assessment within three
months, the OCC could order the sale of the Parent s stock in the national bank to cover the
deficiency.

Capital loans by the Parent to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to
deposits and certain other indebtedness of the subsidiary bank. In addition, in the event of the
Parent s bankruptcy, any commitment by the Parent to a federal bank regulatory agency to

5 

Table of Contents   

maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to
a priority of payment.

Depositor Preference.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act) provides that, in the event of
the  liquidation or other resolution  of an insured depository institution, the claims of
depositors of the institution (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors)
and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over
other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails,
insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of
unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including the Parent, with respect to any extensions of credit
they have made to such insured depository institution.

Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions.  All of the Company s subsidiary banks are insured
by the FDIC. FDIC-insured depository institutions can be held liable for any loss incurred, or
reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of an FDIC-insured depository
institution controlled by the same bank holding company, and for any assistance provided by the
FDIC to an FDIC-insured depository institution that is in danger of default and that is controlled
by the same bank holding company.  Default  means generally the appointment of a conservator or
receiver.  In danger of default  means generally the existence of certain conditions indicating
that a default is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance.

Capital Requirements 

We are subject to regulatory capital requirements and guidelines imposed by the FRB, which are
substantially similar to those imposed by the OCC and the FDIC on depository institutions within
their jurisdictions. Under these guidelines, a depository institution s or a holding company s
assets and certain specified off-balance sheet commitments and obligations are assigned to various
risk categories. A depository institution s or holding company s capital, in turn, is classified
into one of three tiers. Tier 1 capital includes common equity, noncumulative perpetual preferred
stock, a limited amount of cumulative perpetual preferred stock at the holding company level, and
minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill and certain other
deductions. Tier 2 capital includes, among other things, perpetual preferred stock not qualified as
Tier 1 capital, subordinated debt, and allowances for loan and lease losses, subject to certain
limitations. Tier 3 capital includes qualifying unsecured subordinated debt. At least one-half of a
bank s total capital must qualify as Tier 1 capital.

National banks and bank holding companies currently are required to maintain Tier 1 capital and the
sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital equal to at least 4% and 8%, respectively, of their total
risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of
credit). The federal bank regulatory agencies may, however, set higher capital requirements for an
individual bank or when a bank s particular circumstances warrant. The FRB may also set higher
capital requirements for holding companies whose circumstances warrant it. For example, holding
companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong
capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance
on intangible assets. Also, the FRB considers a  tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio  (deducting all
intangibles) and other indications of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or
engaging in new activities.

6 

Table of Contents   

Effective April 1, 2002, the FRB, OCC and FDIC issued new rules that establish minimum capital
requirements for equity investments in nonfinancial companies. These rules impose a capital charge
that increases incrementally as the level of nonfinancial equity investments increases relative to
Tier 1 capital. These capital charges range from Tier 1 capital charges of 8% to 25% of the
adjusted carrying value of the nonfinancial equity investments.

The FRB, OCC and FDIC rules also require us to incorporate market and interest rate risk components
into our regulatory capital computations. Under the market risk requirements, capital is allocated
to support the amount of market risk related to a financial institution s ongoing trading
activities.

In June 2004, the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision published new international guidelines for
determining regulatory capital that are designed to be more risk sensitive than the existing
framework and to promote enhanced risk management practices among large, internationally active
banking organizations. The United States federal bank regulatory agencies each approved a final
rule similar to the international guidelines in November 2007. This new advance capital adequacy
framework is known as  Basel II,  and is intended to more closely align regulatory capital
requirements with actual risks. Basel II incorporates three pillars that address (a) capital
adequacy, (b) supervisory review, which relates to the computation of capital and internal
assessment processes, and (c) market discipline, through increased disclosure requirements.
Embodied within these pillars are aspects of risk strategy, measurement and management that relate
to credit risk, market risk, and operational risk. Banking organizations are required to enhance
the measurement and management of those risks through the use of advanced approaches for
calculating risk-based capital requirements. Under the final rule, banks subject to the rule must
develop an implementation plan within six months of the rule s effective date with the transitional
period for capital calculation to begin within 36 months of the effective date of the final rule.
Basel II includes safeguards that include a requirement that banking organizations conduct a
parallel run over a period of four consecutive calendar quarters for measuring regulatory capital
under the new regulatory capital rules and the existing general risk-based capital rules before
solely operating under the Basel II framework; a requirement that an institution satisfactorily
complete a series of transitional periods before operating under Basel II without floors; and a
commitment by the federal bank regulatory agencies to conduct ongoing analysis of the framework to
ensure Basel II is working as intended. The first possible year for a bank to begin its parallel
run is 2008. Following a successful parallel run period, a banking organization would have to
progress through three transitional periods (each lasting at least one year), during which there
would be floors on potential declines in risk-based capital requirements as calculated under the
current rules. Those transitional floors provide for maximum cumulative reductions of required
risk-based capital of 5% during the first year of implementation, 10% in the second year and 15% in
the third year. 2009 is the first possible year a bank may begin its first of the three
transitional floor periods. A banking organization will need approval from its primary Federal
regulator to move into each of the transitional floor periods, and at the end of the third
transitional floor period to move to full implementation. We continue to analyze the Basel II
capital standards and have established a project management infrastructure to address and meet the
new regulations.

In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have established minimum leverage (Tier 1 capital
to adjusted average total assets) guidelines for banks within their regulatory jurisdiction. These guidelines provide for a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for banks that meet certain

7 

Table of Contents   

specified
criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate exposure and the
highest regulatory rating. Institutions not meeting these criteria are required to maintain a
leverage ratio of 4%. Our Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratio as of
December 31, 2008 are included in Note 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial
Statements included in the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders.

From time to time, the FRB and the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
propose changes and amendments to, and issue interpretations of, risk-based capital guidelines and
related reporting instructions. Such proposals or interpretations could, if implemented in the
future, affect our reported capital ratios and net risk-adjusted assets.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions,
the FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and
soundness standards for institutions for which they are the primary federal regulator. The
standards relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure and
executive compensation. The agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail
to meet such standards.

The FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to take  prompt corrective action  with
respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. A
depository institution s treatment for purposes of the prompt corrective action provisions will
depend upon how its capital levels compare to various capital measures and certain other factors,
as established by regulation.

Deposit Insurance Assessments 

Our bank subsidiaries, including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wachovia Bank, N.A., are members of the
Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits
of our banks up to prescribed limits for each depositor. The DIF was formed March 31, 2006, upon
the merger of the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Insurance Fund in accordance with the Federal
Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005. The Act established a range of 1.15% to 1.50% within which
the FDIC Board of Directors may set the Designated Reserve Ratio (DRR). The current target DRR is
1.25%. However, the Act has eliminated the restrictions on premium rates based on the DRR and
grants the FDIC Board the discretion to price deposit insurance according to risk for all insured
institutions regardless of the level of the reserve ratio.

To maintain the DIF, member institutions are assessed an insurance premium based on their deposits
and their institutional risk category. The FDIC determines an institution s risk category by
combining its supervisory ratings with its financial ratios and other risk measures. For large
institutions (assets of $10 billion or more), the FDIC generally determines risk by combining
supervisory ratings with the institution s long-term debt issuer ratings. Recent failures have
resulted in a decline in the reserve ratio to below 1.15%. Under the Act the FDIC is required to
establish and implement a restoration plan to restore the reserve ratio to 1.15% within five years
of the establishment of the plan. The FDIC adopted a final rule effective January 1, 2009, raising
current rates uniformly by 7 cents per $100 of domestic deposits for the first quarter of 2009
only. Rates for first quarter 2009 will range from a minimum of 12 cents per $100 of domestic
deposits for well-managed, well-capitalized banks with the highest credit ratings, to 50 cents for

8 

Table of Contents   

institutions posing the most risk to the DIF. Proposed rates beginning April 1, 2009, range from a
minimum initial assessment rate of 10 cents per $100 of domestic deposits to a maximum of 45 cents
per $100 of domestic deposits. Risk-based adjustments to the initial assessment rate may lower or
raise a depository institution s rate to 8 cents per $100 of domestic deposits for well-managed,
well-capitalized banks with the highest credit ratings to 77.5 cents for institutions posing the
most risk to the DIF. The final rule is expected early in 2009.

The FDIC may terminate a depository institution s deposit insurance upon a finding that the
institution s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in
unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition
enacted or imposed by the institution s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for
one or more of our bank subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our earnings,
depending on the collective size of the particular banks involved.

All FDIC-insured depository institutions must also pay an annual assessment to interest payments on
bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, a federal corporation chartered under the authority of
the Federal Housing Finance Board. The bonds (commonly referred to as FICO bonds) were issued to
capitalize the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. FDIC-insured depository institutions
paid approximately 1.10 to 1.14 cents per $100 of assessable deposits in 2008. The FDIC established
the FICO assessment rate effective for the first quarter of 2009 at approximately 1.14 cents
annually per $100 of assessable deposits.

Additionally, under the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, in 2009
participating depository institutions will pay a premium of 10 cents per $100 to fully insure
domestic noninterest-bearing transaction accounts. This additional assessment is paid on account
balances in excess of the insurance limits.

Federal Home Loan Bank Membership 

We are a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas, the
Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines, and the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco
(collectively, the FHLBs). Each member of each of the FHLBs is required to maintain a minimum
investment in capital stock of the applicable FHLB. The Board of Directors of each FHLB can
increase the minimum investment requirements in the event it has concluded that additional capital
is required to allow it to meet its own regulatory capital requirements. Any increase in the
minimum investment requirements outside of specified ranges requires the approval of the Federal
Housing Finance Board. Because the extent of any obligation to increase our investment in any of
the FHLBs depends entirely upon the occurrence of a future event, potential future payments to the
FHLBs are not determinable.

Fiscal and Monetary Policies 

Our business and earnings are affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the
federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which
regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Among the instruments of monetary
policy available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in United States government
securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings of depository institutions, (c) imposing
or changing reserve requirements against depository institutions  deposits, and (d) imposing or

9 

Table of Contents   

changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These
methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank
loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The
policies of the FRB may have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.

Privacy Provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Restrictions on Cross-Selling 

Federal banking regulators, as required under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the GLB Act), have
adopted rules limiting the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic
information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. The rules require disclosure of privacy
policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure
of certain personal information to nonaffiliated third parties. The privacy provisions of the GLB
Act affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial services companies
and conveyed to outside vendors.

Federal financial regulators have issued regulations under the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transactions Act (the FACT Act) which have the effect of increasing the length of the waiting
period, after privacy disclosures are provided to new customers, before information can be shared
among different Wells Fargo companies for the purpose of cross-selling Wells Fargo s products and
services. This may result in certain cross-sell programs being less effective than they have been
in the past. Wells Fargo has complied with these regulations.

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) implemented a broad range of corporate governance
and accounting measures to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for
accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies, and to protect investors by
improving the accuracy and reliability of disclosures under federal securities laws. We are subject
to Sarbanes-Oxley because we are required to file periodic reports with the SEC under the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Among other things, Sarbanes-Oxley and/or its implementing
regulations have established new membership requirements and additional responsibilities for our
audit committee, imposed restrictions on the relationship between us and our outside auditors
(including restrictions on the types of non-audit services our auditors may provide to us), imposed
additional responsibilities for our external financial statements on our chief executive officer
and chief financial officer, expanded the disclosure requirements for our corporate insiders,
required our management to evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control
over financial reporting, and required our auditors to issue a report on our internal control over
financial reporting. The NYSE has imposed a number of new corporate governance requirements as
well.

Patriot Act 

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and
Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (Patriot Act) is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law
enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to work together to combat terrorism on a variety
of fronts. The Patriot Act has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers,
dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act requires us to
implement new or revised policies and procedures relating to
anti-money laundering,

10 

Table of Contents   

compliance, suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The
Patriot Act also requires federal bank regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in
combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition.

U.S. Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program 

On October 28, 2008, Wells Fargo issued preferred stock and a warrant to purchase its common stock
to the U.S. Treasury as a participant in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Prior to
October 28, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of this preferred stock or the U.S. Treasury has
transferred all of this preferred stock to a third party, the consent of the U.S. Treasury will be
required for us to, among other things, increase our common stock dividend above the current quarterly cash dividend of $0.34 per share or repurchase our common stock or outstanding preferred
stock except in limited circumstances. Further, as long as the preferred stock issued to the U.S.
Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to our common
stock are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on that preferred stock,
subject to certain exceptions. In addition, until the U.S. Treasury ceases to own any of our
securities sold under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, the compensation arrangements for our
senior executive officers must comply with the U.S. Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) and the rules and regulations thereunder.

EESA requires the following provisions with respect to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and our next three most highly compensated officers (senior executive officers): limits on compensation to exclude incentives to take unnecessary and excessive risks; a clawback with respect to incentive compensation based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that
are later proven to be materially inaccurate; and a prohibition on golden parachute payments. EESA
also limits the deductibility of compensation earned by our senior executive officers to $500,000 per year.

 The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
2009 (Stimulus Act), which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, imposes extensive new restrictions on
participants in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The new restrictions include additional limits on executive
compensation such as prohibiting the payment or accrual of any bonus, retention award or incentive
compensation to our senior executive officers and the next 20 most highly compensated employees except
for the payment of long-term restricted stock; prohibiting any compensation plan that would encourage
the manipulation of earnings; and extending the clawback required by EESA to the top 20 most highly
compensated employees. The Stimulus Act also requires compliance with new corporate governance
standards including an annual  say on pay  shareholder vote, the adoption of policies regarding
excessive or luxury expenditures, and a certification by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer that we have complied with the standards in the Stimulus Act. The full impact
of the Stimulus Act is not yet certain because it calls for additional regulatory action. The
Company will continue to monitor the effect of the Stimulus Act and the anticipated regulations.

FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program 

Wells Fargo and certain of its subsidiary national banks, including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and
Wachovia Bank, N.A., are participating in the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program
(TLGP), which applies to U.S. depository institutions insured by the FDIC and U.S. bank

11 

Table of Contents   

holding companies, unless they have opted out of the TLGP or the FDIC has terminated their participation.
Under the TLGP, the FDIC guarantees certain of our senior unsecured debt, as well as certain
noninterest-bearing deposits at our banks. Under the debt-guarantee component of the TLGP, the FDIC
will pay the unpaid principal and interest on an FDIC-guaranteed debt instrument upon the failure
of the participating entity to make a timely payment of principal or interest in accordance with
the terms of the instrument. Under the deposit account guarantee component of the TLGP, all
noninterest-bearing transaction accounts maintained at our banks are insured in full by the FDIC
until December 31, 2009, regardless of the existing deposit insurance limit of $250,000. In return
for these guarantees, we will pay the FDIC a 10 basis point fee on any deposit amounts exceeding
the existing deposit insurance limit and a fee that fluctuates based on the amount and maturity of
the guaranteed debt.

Future Legislation 

In light of current conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets and the U.S. and global
economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services
industry. Proposals that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services
industry are expected to be introduced in the U.S. Congress, in state legislatures and from
applicable regulatory authorities. These proposals may change banking statutes and regulation and
our operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, these proposals could
increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect
the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial
institutions. We cannot predict whether any of these proposals will be enacted and, if enacted, the
effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on our business, results of operations
or financial condition.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

Additional information in response to this Item 1 can be found in the 2008 Annual Report to
Stockholders under  Financial Review  on pages 34-83 and under  Financial Statements  on pages
86-164. That information is incorporated into this report by reference.

ITEM 1A.      RISK FACTORS 

Information in response to this Item 1A can be found in this report on pages 2-12 and in the
2008 Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Review   Risk Factors  on pages 76-83. That
information is incorporated into this report by reference.

ITEM 1B.      UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

Not applicable.

ITEM 2.         PROPERTIES 

We own our corporate headquarters building in San Francisco, California. We also own administrative
facilities in Anchorage, Alaska; Chandler, Phoenix, and Tempe, Arizona; El Monte and San Francisco,
California; Minneapolis and Shoreview, Minnesota; Billings, Montana; Omaha, Nebraska; Albuquerque,
New Mexico; Portland, Oregon; Sioux Falls, South
  12 

Table of Contents   

Dakota; and Salt Lake City, Utah. In addition, we
lease office space for various administrative departments in major locations in Arizona,
California, Colorado, Minnesota, Nevada, Oregon, Texas and Utah.

As of December 31, 2008, we provided banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance
from 11,000 stores under various types of ownership and leasehold agreements. We own the Wells
Fargo Home Mortgage (Home Mortgage) headquarters in West Des Moines, Iowa and operations/servicing
centers in Springfield, Illinois; West Des Moines, Iowa; and Minneapolis, Minnesota. We lease
administrative space for Home Mortgage in Tempe, Arizona; San Bernardino, California; Des Moines,
Iowa; Frederick, Maryland; Minneapolis, Minnesota; St. Louis, Missouri; Fort Mill, South Carolina;
and all mortgage production offices nationwide. We own the Wells Fargo Financial, Inc. (WFFI)
headquarters and four administrative buildings in Des Moines, Iowa, and an operations center in
Sioux Falls, South Dakota. We lease administrative space for WFFI in Tempe, Arizona; Lake Mary,
Florida; Des Moines, Iowa; Kansas City, Kansas; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Mississauga, Ontario;
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; San Juan, Puerto Rico; Aberdeen, South Dakota; Vancouver, Washington;
and all store locations.

We are also a joint venture partner in an office building in downtown Minneapolis, Minnesota.

As a result of the acquisition of Wachovia, effective December 31, 2008, we now own a
multi-building office complex in Charlotte, North Carolina. Additional administrative offices we
own as a result of the acquisition are located in Oakland, California; Boston, Massachusetts;
Winston-Salem, North Carolina; St. Louis, Missouri; and New York, New York.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

Additional information in response to this Item 2 can be found in the 2008 Annual Report to
Stockholders under  Financial Statements   Notes to Financial Statements   Note 7 (Premises,
Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets)  on page 110. That information is incorporated
into this report by reference.

ITEM 3.          LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

Information in response to this Item 3 can be found in the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders under
 Financial Statements   Notes to Financial Statements   Note 15 (Guarantees and Legal Actions)  on
pages 128-131. That information is incorporated into this report by reference.

ITEM 4.          SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

Information relating to the Company s executive officers is included in Item 10 of this report.

13 

Table of Contents   

PART II 

ITEM 5.         
       
      MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

MARKET INFORMATION 

The Company s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol  WFC ). The Quarterly
Financial Data table on page 165 of the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders provides the
quarterly prices of, and quarterly dividends paid on, the Company s common stock for the two-year
period ended December 31, 2008, and is incorporated herein by reference. Prices shown represent the
daily high and low and the quarter-end sale prices of the Company s common stock as reported on the
New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting System for the periods indicated. At
January 31, 2009, there were 243,312 holders of record of the Company s common stock.

DIVIDENDS 

The
dividend restrictions discussions on page 5 of this report and in the 2008 Annual Report
to Stockholders under  Financial Statements   Notes to Financial Statements   Note 3 (Cash, Loan
and Dividend Restrictions)  on page 103 are incorporated into this report by reference.

REPURCHASES OF COMMON STOCK 

The following table shows Company s repurchases of its common stock for each calendar month in the
quarter ended December 31, 2008.

(1) 
       
     All shares were repurchased under two authorizations covering up to 75 million and 25 million shares of common stock approved by the Board of Directors and publicly announced by the
Company on November 7, 2007, and September 23, 2008, respectively. Unless modified or revoked
by the Board, the authorizations do not expire. 

ITEM 6.       
       
      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

Information in response to this Item 6 can be found in the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders under
 Financial Review  in Table 1 on page 37. That information is incorporated into this report by
reference.

14 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7.       
       
      MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Information in response to this Item 7 can be found in the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders under
 Financial Review  on pages 34-83. That information is incorporated into this report by
reference.

ITEM 7A.     
       
      QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Information in response to this Item 7A can be found in the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders
under  Financial Review   Risk Management   Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management  on pages
68-72. That information is incorporated into this report by reference.

ITEM 8.        
       
      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

Information in response to this Item 8 can be found in the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders under
 Financial Statements  on pages 86-164 and under  Quarterly Financial Data  on page 165. That
information is incorporated into this report by reference.

ITEM 9.     
       
      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.  
       
      CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

Information in response to this Item 9A can be found in the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders
under  Controls and Procedures  on pages 84-85. That information is incorporated into this report
by reference.

ITEM 9B.  
       
      OTHER INFORMATION  

Not applicable.

15 

Table of Contents   

PART III 

ITEM 10.  
       
      DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

Howard I. Atkins (age 58)

Senior
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2005;

Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from August 2001 to August 2005.

Mr. Atkins has served with the Company for 7 years.

Patricia R. Callahan (age 55)

Executive Vice President (Office of Transition) since January 2009;

Executive Vice President (Social Responsibility Group) from June 2008 to December 2008;

Executive Vice President (Compliance and Risk) from June 2005 to September 2007;

Executive Vice President (Human Resources) from November 1998 to June 2005.

Ms. Callahan has served with the Company or its predecessors for 31 years.

David M. Carroll (age 51)

Senior Executive Vice President (Wealth Management, Brokerage and Retirement Services) since
January 2009;

Senior Executive Vice President of Wachovia Corporation from September 2001 to January 2009.

Mr. Carroll has served with the Company or its predecessors for 27 years.

David A. Hoyt (age 53)

Senior Executive Vice President (Wholesale Banking) since August 2005;

Group Executive Vice President (Wholesale Banking) from November 1998 to
August 2005.

Mr. Hoyt has served with the Company or its predecessors for 27 years.

Richard M. Kovacevich (age 65)

Chairman
since June 2007;

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from August 2005 to June 2007;

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer from April 2001 to August 2005.

Mr. Kovacevich has served with the Company or its predecessors for 23 years.

Richard D. Levy (age 51)

Executive Vice President and Controller since February 2007;

Senior Vice
President and Controller from September 2002 to February 2007.

Mr. Levy has served with the Company for 6 years.

16 

Table of Contents   

Michael J. Loughlin (age 53)

Executive Vice President and Chief Credit and Risk Officer since April 2006;

Deputy Chief Credit Officer from January 2006 to April 2006;

Executive Vice President of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. from May 2000 to April 2006.

Mr. Loughlin has served with the Company or its predecessors for 27 years.

Mark C. Oman (age 54)

Senior Executive Vice President (Home and Consumer Finance) since August 2005;

Group Executive Vice President (Home and Consumer Finance) from September 2002 to
August 2005;

Chairman of Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, Inc. (formerly known as Norwest Mortgage, Inc.) from
February 1997 until the merger with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. in May 2004.

Mr. Oman has served with the Company or its predecessors for 29 years.

Kevin A. Rhein (age 55)

Executive Vice President (Card Services and Consumer Lending) since January 2009;

Executive Vice President of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. since February 2004;

President and Chief Executive Officer of Wells Fargo Card Services, Inc. from August 1999
to February 2004.

Mr. Rhein has served with the Company or its predecessors for 30 years.

James M. Strother (age 57)

Executive
Vice President and General Counsel since January 2004.

Mr. Strother has served with the Company or its predecessors for 22 years.

John G. Stumpf (age 55)

President and Chief Executive Officer since June 2007;

President and Chief Operating Officer from August 2005 to June 2007;

Group
Executive Vice President (Community Banking) from July 2002 to August 2005.

Mr. Stumpf has served with the Company or its predecessors for 27 years.

Carrie L. Tolstedt (age 49)

Senior Executive Vice President (Community Banking) since June 2007;

Group
Executive Vice President (Regional Banking) from July 2002 to June 2007.

Ms. Tolstedt has served with the Company or its predecessors for 19 years.

Julie M. White (age 54)

Executive Vice President (Human Resources) since June 2007;

Executive
Vice President (Human Resources   Home and Consumer Finance) from March 1998 to June 2007.

Ms. White has served with the Company or its predecessors for 22 years.

There is no family relationship between any of the Company s executive officers or directors. All
executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.

17 

Table of Contents   

AUDIT COMMITTEE INFORMATION 

The Audit and Examination Committee is a standing audit committee of the Board of Directors
established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The
Committee has eight members: John D. Baker II, Lloyd H. Dean, Enrique Hernandez, Jr., Robert L.
Joss, Cynthia H. Milligan, Nicholas G. Moore, Philip J. Quigley and Susan G. Swenson. Each member
is independent, as independence for audit committee members is defined by New York Stock Exchange
rules. The Board of Directors has determined, in its business judgment, that each member of the
Committee is financially literate, as required by New York Stock Exchange rules, and that each
qualifies as an  audit committee financial expert  as defined by Securities and Exchange Commission
regulations.

CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT 

The Company s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for team members (including executive officers),
Director Code of Ethics, the Company s corporate governance guidelines, and the charters for the
Audit and Examination, Governance and Nominating, Human Resources, Credit, and Finance Committees
are available at www.wellsfargo.com (select  About Us,  then  Corporate Governance ). This
information is also available in print to any stockholder upon written request to the Office of the
Secretary, Wells Fargo   Company, MAC N9305-173, Wells Fargo Center, Sixth and Marquette,
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

Additional information in response to this Item 10 can be found in the 2009 Proxy Statement under
 Ownership of Our Common Stock   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  and
 Item 1   Election of Directors   Director Nominees for Election  and   Other Matters Relating to
Directors.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.

ITEM 11.  
       
      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  

Information in response to this Item 11 can be found in the 2009 Proxy Statement under  Item 1 
Election of Directors   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and   Director
Compensation,  under  Executive Compensation  (other than  Human Resources Committee   Executive
Compensation Process and Procedures ) and under  Information About Related Persons   Related Person
Transactions.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.

ITEM 12.  
       
      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS  

Information in response to this Item 12 can be found in the 2009 Proxy Statement under  Ownership
of Our Common Stock  and under  Equity Compensation Plan Information.  That information is
incorporated into this report by reference.

18 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 13.  
       
      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  

Information in response to this Item 13 can be found in the 2009 Proxy Statement under  Corporate
Governance   Director Independence  and under  Information About Related Persons.  That information
is incorporated into this report by reference.

ITEM 14.  
       
      PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

Information in response to this Item 14 can be found in the 2009 Proxy Statement under  Item 2  
Appointment of Independent Auditors   KPMG Fees  and   Audit and Examination Committee Pre-Approval
Policies and Procedures.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.

PART IV 

ITEM 15.  
       
      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

The
Company s consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, and the report of the
independent registered public accounting firm thereon, are set forth
on pages 86 through 164 of
the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders, incorporated herein by reference.

2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

All financial statement schedules for the Company have been included in the consolidated financial
statements or the related footnotes, or are either inapplicable or not required.

3.  EXHIBITS 

A list of exhibits to this Form 10-K is set forth on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such
exhibits and is incorporated into this report by reference.

Stockholders may obtain a copy of any of the following exhibits, upon payment of a reasonable fee,
by writing to Wells Fargo   Company, Office of the Secretary, Wells Fargo Center, N9305-173, Sixth
and Marquette, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479.

The Company s SEC file number is 001-2979. On and before November 2, 1998, the Company filed
documents with the SEC under the name Norwest Corporation. The former Wells Fargo   Company filed
documents under SEC file number 001-6214. The former Wachovia
Corporation filed documents under SEC file number 001-10000.

19 

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized, on February 27, 2009.

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

By:   
     /s/ JOHN G. STUMPF 

John G. Stumpf  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

By:   
     
/s/ HOWARD I. ATKINS 

Howard I. Atkins  

Senior Executive Vice President and
 
Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer) February 27, 2009  

By:   
     
/s/ RICHARD D. LEVY  

Richard D. Levy  

Executive Vice President and Controller 
(Principal Accounting Officer) February 27, 2009  

The Directors of Wells Fargo   Company listed below have duly executed powers of attorney
empowering Nicholas G. Moore to sign this document on their behalf.

John D. Baker II

Cynthia H. Milligan 

John S. Chen

Philip J. Quigley 

Lloyd H. Dean

Donald B. Rice 

Susan E. Engel

Judith M. Runstad 

Enrique Hernandez, Jr.

Stephen W. Sanger 

Donald M. James

Robert K. Steel 

Robert L. Joss

John G. Stumpf 

Richard M. Kovacevich

Susan G. Swenson 

Richard D. McCormick

Michael W. Wright 

Mackey J. McDonald

By:   
     
/s/ NICHOLAS G. MOORE  

Nicholas G. Moore  

Director and Attorney-in-fact February 27, 2009  

20 

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

Exhibit 

Number  
       
      Description  
       
      Location  

3(a)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 3.1 to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed
September 28, 2006. 

3(b)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s 2007
ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 3(a) to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed March 19,
2007. 

3(c)

Certificate Eliminating the Certificate of
Designations for the Company s 1997 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 3(b) to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed March 19,
2007. 

3(d)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s 2008
ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 3(a) to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed March 18,
2008. 

3(e)

Certificate Eliminating the Certificate of
Designations for the Company s 1998 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 3(b) to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed March 18,
2008. 

3(f)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 4.8 to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed May 19, 2008. 

3(g)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 4.8 to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed September 10,
2008. 

3(h)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s Fixed
Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series D.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed October 30,
2008. 

3(i)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s
Dividend Equalization Preferred Shares.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed December 30,
2008. 

3(j)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s Class
A Preferred Stock, Series G.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 4.2 to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed December 30,
2008. 

3(k)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s Class
A Preferred Stock, Series H.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 4.3 to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed December 30,
2008. 

3(l)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s Class
A Preferred Stock, Series I.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 4.4 to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed December 30,
2008. 

3(m)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s 8.00%
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock,
Series J.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 4.5 to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed December 30,
2008. 

3(n)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s
Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual
Class A Preferred Stock, Series K.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 4.6 to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed December 30,
2008. 

3(o)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s 7.50%
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A
Preferred Stock, Series L.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 4.7 to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed December 30,
2008. 

21 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number  
       
      Description  
       
      Location  

3(p)

By-Laws.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 3 to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed December 4,
2006. 

4(a)

See Exhibits 3(a) through 3(p). 

4(b)

The Company agrees to furnish upon request to the
Commission a copy of each instrument defining the
rights of holders of senior and subordinated debt of
the Company. 

10(a)*

Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(a) to
the Company s
Current Report on
Form 8-K filed
May 5, 2008. 

Forms of Award Term Sheet for grants of restricted
share rights.

Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 1999. 

Forms of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for
executive officers:

For grant to Richard M. Kovacevich on February 26,
2008;

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(a) to
the Company s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 2007. 

For grants on and after November 27, 2007;

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(a) to
the Company s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 2007. 

For grants on and after February 28, 2006, but prior
to November 27, 2007;

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(a) to
the Company s
Current Report on
Form 8-K filed
March  6, 2006.  

For grants on August 1, 2005;

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10 to the
Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K
filed August 1,
2005. 

For grants in 2004 and on February 22, 2005;

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(a) to
the Company s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 2004. 

For grants after November 2, 1998, through 2003; and

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(a) to
the Company s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended
December 31, 1998. 

For grants on or before November 2, 1998.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(a) to
the Company s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended
December 31, 1997. 

10(b)*

Long-Term Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit A to the
former Wells
Fargo s Proxy
Statement filed
March 14, 1994. 

10(c)*

Wells Fargo Bonus Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(c) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June
30, 2008. 

* 
      
     Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 

22 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number  
       
      Description  
       
      Location  

10(d)*

Performance-Based Compensation Policy.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(b) to
the Company s
Current Report on
Form 8-K filed May
5, 2008. 

10(e)*

Deferred Compensation Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(f) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended
September 30, 2003. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective
August 1, 2005.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(b) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended
September 30, 2005. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective
September 26, 2006.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(b) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended
September 30, 2006. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective
January 1, 2007.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(f) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March
31, 2007. 

10(f)*

Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(f) to
the Company s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 2007. 

Amendments to Directors Stock Compensation and
Deferral Plan, effective September 23, 2008.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(a) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended
September 30, 2008. 

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and
Deferral Plan, effective January 22, 2008.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(f) to
the Company s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 2007. 

Action of Governance and Nominating Committee
Increasing Amount of Formula Stock and Option Awards
Under Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral
Plan, effective January 1, 2007.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(f) to
the Company s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 2006. 

10(g)*

1990 Director Option Plan for directors of the
former Wells Fargo.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(c) to
the former Wells
Fargo s Annual
Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended
December 31, 1997. 

10(h)*

1987 Director Option Plan for directors of the
former Wells Fargo; and

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit A to the
former Wells
Fargo s Proxy
Statement filed
March 10, 1995. 

Amendment to 1987 Director Option Plan, effective
September 16, 1997.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10 to the
former Wells
Fargo s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter
ended
September 30, 1997. 

10(i)*

Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
Directors of the former Norwest.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(c) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended
September 30, 1999. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan for
Non-Employee Directors, effective November 1, 2000.

Filed as paragraph
(4) of Exhibit
10(ff) to the
Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended
December 31, 2000. 

23 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number  
       
      Description  
       
      Location  

10(i)*

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan for
Non-Employee Directors, effective January 1, 2004.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(a) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended
September 30, 2003. 

10(j)*

Directors  Stock Deferral Plan for directors of the
former Norwest.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(d) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended
September 30, 1999. 

Amendment to Directors  Stock Deferral Plan,
effective November 1, 2000.

Filed as paragraph
(5) of Exhibit
10(ff) to the
Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended
December 31, 2000. 

Amendment to Directors  Stock Deferral Plan,
effective January 1, 2004.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(c) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended
September 30, 2003. 

10(k)*

Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan for directors of
the former Norwest.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(e) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended
September 30, 1999. 

Amendment to Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan,
effective November 1, 2000.

Filed as paragraph
(6) of Exhibit
10(ff) to the
Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended
December 31, 2000. 

Amendment to Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan,
effective January 1, 2004.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(b) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended
September 30, 2003. 

10(l)*

Deferral Plan for Directors of the former Wells
Fargo.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(b) to
the former Wells
Fargo s Annual
Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended
December 31, 1997. 

Amendment to Deferral Plan, effective January 1,
2004.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(d) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended
September 30, 2003. 

10(m)*

Supplemental 401(k) Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(a) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended
March 31, 2005. 

Amendment to Supplemental 401(k) Plan, effective
August 4, 2006.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(e) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended
September 30, 2006. 

10(n)*

Supplemental Cash Balance Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(b) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March
31, 2005. 

10(o)*

Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(f) to
the Company s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended
December 31, 1990. 

Amendment to Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(g) to
the Company s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended
December 31, 1992. 

10(p)*

Agreement, dated July 11, 2001, between the Company
and Howard I. Atkins.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10 to the
Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter
ended
September 30, 2001. 

24 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number  
       
      Description  
       
      Location  

10(q)*

Agreement between the Company and Mark C. Oman,
dated May 7, 1999.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(y) to
the Company s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended
December 31, 1999. 

Amendment No. 1 to Agreement between the Company and
Mark C. Oman, effective December 29, 2008.

Filed herewith. 

10(r)*

Description of Relocation Program.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(y) to
the Company s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended
December 31, 2003. 

10(s)*

Description of Executive Financial Planning Program.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(w) to
the Company s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 2004. 

10(t)

PartnerShares Stock Option Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(x) to
the Company s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 2004. 

Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan,
effective August 1, 2005.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(c) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended
September 30, 2005. 

Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan,
effective August 4, 2006.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(c) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended
September 30, 2006. 

Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan,
effective January 1, 2007.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(g) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March
31, 2007. 

Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan,
effective January 22, 2008.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(v) to
the Company s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 2007. 

10(u)*

Agreement, dated July 26, 2002, between the Company
and Richard D. Levy, including a description of his
executive transfer bonus.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(d) to
the Company s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended
September 30, 2002. 

10(v)

Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for
Independent Contractors.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit 10(x) to
the Company s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 2007. 

10(w)*

Description of Chairman/CEO Post-Retirement Policy.

Filed herewith. 

10(x)*

Description of Non-Employee Director Equity
Compensation Program

Filed herewith. 

10(y)*

Employment Agreement, dated December 30, 2008,
between the Company and David M. Carroll.

Filed herewith. 

10(z)*

Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Deferred
Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10)(f) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Current Report on
Form 8-K filed
December 29, 2008. 

25 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number  
       
      Description  
       
      Location  

10(aa)*

Wachovia Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10)(d) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 1997. 

10(bb)*

Wachovia Corporation Supplemental Executive
Long-Term Disability Plan, as amended and restated.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (99) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Current Report on
Form 8-K filed
January 5, 2005. 

10(cc)*

Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Elective
Deferral Plan (as amended and restated effective
January 1, 2009).

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10)(a) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Current Report on
Form 8-K filed
December 29, 2008. 

10(dd)*

Wachovia Corporation 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as
amended.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10)(j) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 2001. 

10(ee)*

Employment Agreement between Wachovia Corporation
and David M. Carroll.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10)(m) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 2004. 

Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement between
Wachovia Corporation and David M. Carroll.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10)(a) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Current Report on
Form 8-K filed
December 22, 2005. 

Amendment No. 2 to Employment Agreement between
Wachovia Corporation and David M. Carroll.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10)(h) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Current Report on
Form 8-K filed
December 29, 2008. 

10(ff)*

Wachovia Corporation 2001 Stock Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10)(v) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 2001. 

10(gg)*

Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10)(gg) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 2002. 

10(gg)*

Amendment 2007-1 to Wachovia Corporation Savings
Restoration Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10)(b) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Current Report on
Form 8-K filed
December 20, 2007. 

Amendment 2008-1 to Wachovia Corporation Savings
Restoration Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10)(c) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Current Report on
Form 8-K filed
December 29, 2008. 

10(hh)*

Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Savings
Restoration Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10)(b) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Current Report on
Form 8-K filed
December 29, 2008. 

10(ii)*

Wachovia Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March
31, 2003. 

26 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number  
       
      Description  
       
      Location  

10(ii)*

Form of stock award agreement for Executive Officers
of Wachovia Corporation, including David M. Carroll.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10)(ss) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 2004. 

10(jj)*

Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation 2003 Stock
Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by
reference to
Appendix E to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Registration
Statement on Form
S-4 (Reg. No.
333-134656) filed
on July 24, 2006. 

10(kk)*

Form of Split-Dollar Life Insurance Termination
Agreement between Wachovia Corporation and David M.
Carroll.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10)(hh) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the
year ended December
31, 2003. 

10(ll)*

Agreement between Wachovia Corporation and Robert K.
Steel.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Current Report on
Form 8-K filed July
10, 2008. 

10(mm)*

Stock Award Letter between Wachovia Corporation and
Robert K. Steel.

Incorporated by
reference to
Exhibit (10)(a) to
Wachovia
Corporation s
Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June
30, 2008. 

12(a)

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges:

Filed herewith. 

12(b)

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges
and Preferred Dividends:

Filed herewith. 

13

2008 Annual Report to Stockholders, pages 33 through
164.

Filed herewith. 

21

Subsidiaries of the Company.

Filed herewith. 

23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm.

Filed herewith. 

24

Powers of Attorney.

Filed herewith. 

31(a)

Certification of principal executive officer
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.

Filed herewith. 

27 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number  
       
      Description  
       
      Location  

31(b)

Certification of principal financial officer
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.

Filed herewith. 

32(a)

Certification of Periodic Financial Report by Chief
Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and 18 U.S.C.   1350.

Furnished herewith. 

32(b)

Certification of Periodic Financial Report by Chief
Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and 18 U.S.C.   1350.

Furnished herewith. 

28 

<EX-10.(Q)>
 2
 f51597exv10wxqy.htm
 EX-10.(Q)

exv10wxqy 

Exhibit 10(q)

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO 
LETTER AGREEMENT DATED AS OF MAY 7, 1999 
WITH MARK C. OMAN 

This Amendment No. 1 ( Amendment No. 1 ) to Letter Agreement dated as of May 7, 1999 between
Wells Fargo   Company ( Wells Fargo ), a Delaware corporation, and Mark C. Oman ( Executive ) (the
 Letter Agreement ) is entered into effective December 29, 2008 (the  Effective Date ).

WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Letter Agreement, Wells Fargo agreed to provide a
special retirement benefit to Executive under a nonqualified, unfunded arrangement; and

WHEREAS, Wells Fargo now desires to amend such Letter Agreement to ensure that such
nonqualified arrangement complies with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), and the regulations and guidance issued thereunder;

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, Wells Fargo hereby amends the Letter
Agreement as follows:

1.      Definitions . Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning
ascribed to such terms in the Wells Fargo   Company Supplemental Cash Balance Plan.

2.      Time and Form of Benefit Payment . Executive may file an irrevocable written
election with Wells Fargo on or before December 31, 2008 (which election shall be effective January
1, 2009) that his benefit under the Letter Agreement shall be paid either (a) in a lump sum as soon
as administratively feasible after the January 1 following the calendar year in which his
Separation from Service occurs, but no later than the December 31 of that calendar year, or (b) in
the form of a monthly annuity commencing as soon as administratively feasible after the January 1
following the calendar year in which his Separation from Service occurs, but no later than the
December 31 of that calendar year. If Executive fails to file such an election by December 31,
2008, such benefit shall be paid in a lump sum as soon as administratively feasible after the
January 1 following the calendar year in which the participant s Separation from Service occurs,
but no later than the December 31 of that calendar year.

3.      Six-Month Delay if Specified Employee . If Wells Fargo determines that Executive is
a  Specified Employee  for purposes of Code section 409A, no lump sum or monthly annuity payment
shall be paid to Executive prior to the date that is six months after the date of his Separation
from Service. Any payment that would otherwise be made on an earlier date pursuant to the terms
of Section 2 of this Amendment No.1 shall be delayed to the extent necessary to comply with the
previous sentence.

4.      Application of Terms and Conditions under Supplemental Cash Balance Plans . Except
as otherwise provided in the Letter Agreement, payment of the special retirement benefit under the
Letter Agreement shall be subject to the general terms and conditions of the Wells Fargo   Company
Supplemental Cash Balance Plan as if the benefit were payable under said Plan.

Dated: December 29, 2008 
       
     WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 

/s/ Julie M. White 

By:

Julie M. White 

Senior Vice President, Human Resource 

</EX-10.(Q)>

<EX-10.(W)>
 3
 f51597exv10wxwy.htm
 EX-10.(W)

exv10wxwy 

Exhibit 10(w)

Wells Fargo   Company Chairman / CEO Post-Retirement Policy 

For a period of two years following the date of retirement of a management Chairman of the Board of
Wells Fargo   Company or CEO of Wells Fargo   Company who was elected on or after January 1, 2005,
the Company, if approved by the Human Resources Committee, may provide the retired Chairman or CEO
with an office, an administrative assistant and part-time driver at the Company s expense. The
benefits provided under this Post-Retirement Policy are conditioned upon the retired Chairman or
CEO continuing to be available for consultation with management and to represent the Company with
customers, the community and team members during the two year period. The monthly fair market
value of the use of the office, the services provided by the administrative assistant and the
services provided by the driver will be taxable to the retired Chairman or CEO each calendar year
according to the Internal Revenue Code and IRS rules as calculated by the Company. In the event
the retired Chairman or CEO dies during the time that the Chairman or CEO is covered under this
Post-Retirement Policy, all benefits provided under the Post-Retirement Policy will cease.

</EX-10.(W)>

<EX-10.(X)>
 4
 f51597exv10wxxy.htm
 EX-10.(X)

exv10wxxy 

Exhibit 10(x) 

Description of Non-Employee Director Equity Compensation Program 

Stock Awards :

Each non-employee director elected at the Company s annual meeting of stockholders
receives, under the Company s Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (LTICP), as of the date of
such meeting, an award of Company common stock having an award value of $70,000. A
non-employee director who joins the Board as of any other date receives, under the LTICP, as
of such other date, an award of Company common stock having an award value based on the
full-year award value of $70,000 prorated to reflect the number of months (rounded up to the
next whole month) remaining until the next annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however,
that if the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is not open on the day the director joins the
Board, the award is granted as of the next following day on which the NYSE is open. 

The number of shares of Company common stock subject to an award is determined by dividing
the award value by the NYSE-only closing price of Company common stock on the date of grant
(rounded up to the nearest whole share). 

The stock awards vest in full immediately upon grant. 

Option Grants :

Each non-employee director elected at the Company s annual meeting of stockholders
receives, under the LTICP, as of the date of such meeting, an option to purchase Company
common stock having a grant value of $60,000. A non-employee director who joins the Board as
of any other date receives, under the LTICP, as of such other date, an option to purchase
Company common stock based on the full-year grant value of $60,000 prorated to reflect the
number of months (rounded up to the next whole month) remaining until the next annual meeting
of stockholders; provided, however, that if the NYSE is not open on the day the director joins
the Board, the option is granted as of the next following day on which the NYSE is open. 

Unless a higher conversion value is established by the Committee, the number of shares of
Company common stock subject to the option is generally determined by dividing the grant value
by 25% of the NYSE-only closing price of Company common stock on the date of grant (rounded up
to the nearest even 10 shares). The exercise price per share of the option is the NYSE-only
closing price of Company common stock on the date of grant. 

The option vests and becomes exercisable in full on the first anniversary of the date of
grant. The option remains outstanding if the director leaves the Board for any reason other
than his or her death or for cause. If the director dies, the option vests and becomes
exercisable immediately by his or her beneficiary as determined in accordance with the LTICP.
If the
director is terminated for cause, the option terminates and is cancelled as of the date he or
she ceases to be a director. 

</EX-10.(X)>

<EX-10.(Y)>
 5
 f51597exv10wxyy.htm
 EX-10.(Y)

exv10wxyy 

Exhibit 10(y)

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 

THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (this   Agreement  ) is made and entered into as of December 30,
2008, by and between David M. Carroll (the   Executive  ) and Wells Fargo   Company, a
Delaware corporation (the   Company  ).

WITNESSETH THAT: 

The Company has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to
assure that the Company will have the dedication of the Executive following the transaction (the
  Merger  ) contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 3, 2008,
between the Company and Wachovia Corporation (  Wachovia  ) (the   Merger Agreement  ),
and the Company and the Executive have further agreed to the principal terms of the Executive s
employment with the Company effective as of the   Effective Date   (as defined below).
Therefore, in order to accomplish these objectives, the Executive and the Company desire to enter
into this Agreement.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth below, and for
other good and valuable consideration, it is hereby covenanted and agreed by the Executive and the
Company as follows:

1.      Effective Date . The   Effective Date   shall mean the date on which the
  Effective Time   (as defined in the Merger Agreement) of the Merger occurs. In the event
that the Effective Time shall not occur on or before December 31, 2008, this Agreement shall be
null and void  ab   initio  and of no further force and effect.

2.      Employment Period . The Company hereby agrees to employ the Executive with its
subsidiary Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (which for purposes of this Agreement shall be included in
references to the  Company  unless the reference to the  Company  in the context it is used
indicates otherwise), and the Executive hereby agrees to serve the Company, subject to the terms
and conditions of this Agreement, for the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending on the
first anniversary of the Effective Date (the   Employment Period  ). If continued employment
is mutually desired after the end of the Employment Period, the Executive shall continue as an
at-will employee of the Company.

3.      Position and Duties . (a) During the Employment Period, the Executive shall (i)
serve as a Senior Executive Vice President of the Company, leading the Company s new Wealth,
Brokerage and Retirement Services group (the   Group  ) with such duties and responsibilities
as are commensurate with such position as are assigned to the Executive from time to time; (ii)
report directly to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company (the   CEO   and (iii)
perform his duties at the location Executive performed duties for Wachovia immediately prior to the
Merger or such other location as shall be mutually agreed between the Company and the Executive.

(b)     During the Employment Period, and excluding any periods of paid time off to which the
Executive is entitled, the Executive agrees to devote his full professional attention and time
during normal business hours to the business and affairs of the Company and
to perform the responsibilities assigned to the Executive hereunder. During the Employment

Period it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the Executive to (i) serve on corporate,
civic or charitable boards or committees, (ii) deliver lectures, fulfill speaking engagements or
teach at educational institutions, and (iii) manage personal investments, so long as such
activities do not interfere with the performance of the Executive s responsibility as an employee
of the Company in accordance with this Agreement and are consistent with the business or policies
of the Company, including but not limited to the Company s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, or
any subsidiary or affiliate thereof (the   Affiliated Entities  ).

4.      Compensation . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, during the Employment
Period, the Company shall compensate the Executive for his services as follows:

(a)      Base Salary . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall receive an annual
base salary (  Annual Base Salary  ) of not less than $700,000. Such Annual Base Salary
shall be payable in bi-weekly installments in accordance with the Company s payroll policies. The
Executive s Annual Base Salary may not be decreased at any time during the Employment Period,
except with the written consent of the Executive. The term Annual Base Salary as utilized in this
Agreement shall refer to Annual Base Salary as in effect from time to time, including any
increases.

(b)      Annual Incentive Payment . With respect to the Company s 2009 calendar year, the
Executive shall be eligible to receive an annual incentive payment (the   Incentive
Payment  ) as determined in accordance with the Company s annual incentive plan applicable to
senior executives of the Company (the   Annual Incentive Plan  ) with a target incentive
opportunity of 350% of the Annual Base Salary, with a maximum annual incentive payment of 600% of
the Annual Base Salary, in each case subject to the terms and conditions of the Annual Incentive
Plan, including, without limitation, the Company s achievement of its threshold EPS goal for the
applicable calendar year and the accomplishment of pre-determined Company and Group financial
performance objectives. Any such Incentive Payment shall be paid to the Executive in cash no later
than March 15, 2010 (unless the Executive has elected to defer receipt of any such Incentive
Payment pursuant to an arrangement that complies with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the   Code  )), provided that Executive satisfactorily performs his job
duties and remains continuously employed with the Company through December 15, 2009. For calendar
years after 2009 in which the Executive remains employed by the Company, the Company will review
the Executive s target and maximum payout opportunities to ensure the bonus opportunity aligns with
the Group s business objectives.

(c)      Calendar Year 2009 Stock Option Award . In connection with the Company s annual
equity award program for calendar year 2009, the Executive will be recommended for a stock option
award with a grant date value of $5,000,000 (the   2009 Stock Option Award  ). The grant of
the 2009 Stock Option Award shall be subject to the approval of the Human Resources Committee of
the Board of Directors of the Company (the   HRC  ) and contingent upon the Executive s
employment with the Company on the date of the HRC s determination to make any such grant (the
  Grant Date  ). The number of shares of Company common stock subject to the 2009 Stock
Option Award shall be determined by the Company based on the trading price of the Company s common
stock at the time that the recommendation
in respect of the 2009 Stock Option Award is submitted to the HRC for approval. The 2009
Stock Option Award shall vest in three equal annual installments on the first, second and third

-2- 

anniversaries of the Grant Date, have an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the
Company s common stock on the Grant Date, have a term of up to ten years and such other terms and
conditions as are consistent with the calendar year 2009 annual stock option awards granted to
other executive managers of the Company generally.

(d)      Retention Bonus . The Executive shall be eligible for a retention bonus award
opportunity of $8,000,000 (the   Retention Bonus  ). Twenty-five percent of the Retention
Bonus (i.e., $2,000,000) will vest and be paid to the Executive on January 31, 2009, 25% of the
Retention Bonus (i.e., $2,000,000) will vest and be paid to the Executive on April 30, 2009 and 50%
of the Retention Bonus (i.e., $4,000,000) will vest and be paid to the Executive on December 31,
2009 (each date of vesting and payment a   Payment Date  ), provided that the Executive
satisfactorily performs his job duties and remains continuously employed with the Company through
the applicable Payment Date.

(e)      Employee Benefits . During the Employment Period prior to the Date of Termination,
the Executive and/or the Executive s family, as the case may be, shall be eligible to participate
in the Wachovia employee benefit plans (as in effect from time to time) generally available to
other peer executives of Wachovia following the Merger (  Wachovia Peer Executives  ), which
may include, without limitation, employee stock purchase plans, savings plans, retirement plans,
welfare benefit plans (including, without limitation, medical, prescription, dental, disability,
life, accidental death, and travel accident insurance, but excluding severance plans) and similar
plans, practices policies and programs. The Executive s qualifying service with Wachovia will be
credited for purposes of eligibility, participation and vesting in such employee benefit plans
(including paid time off) to the extent provided in Section 6.5(b) of the Merger Agreement.

(f)      Expenses . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to
receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred by the Executive in accordance
with the policies, practices of the Company and the Affiliated Entities in effect from time to time
for peer executives at the time when the expense is incurred.

(g)      Fringe Benefits . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to
fringe benefits and perquisite plans or programs generally available to Wachovia Peer Executives;
provided that the Company reserves the right to modify, change or terminate such fringe benefits
and perquisite plans or programs from time to time, in its sole discretion. As of the Effective
Date, such fringe benefits include the Wachovia Executive Financial Planning Program, the Wachovia
Executive Long-Term Disability Plan and the Wachovia Executive Life Insurance Program.

(h)      Indemnification/D O Insurance . During the Employment Period for acts prior to the
Date of Termination, the Executive shall be entitled to indemnification with respect to the
performance of his duties hereunder, and directors  and officers  liability insurance, on the same
terms and conditions as generally available to peer executives of the Company.

5.      Termination of Employment . (a)  Death or Disability . The Executive s
employment shall terminate automatically upon the Executive s death during the Employment Period.
If the Company determines in good faith that the Disability of the Executive has

-3- 

occurred during
the Employment Period (pursuant to the definition of Disability set forth below), it may provide
the Executive with written notice in accordance with Section 11(f) of this Agreement of its
intention to terminate the Executive s employment. In such event, the Executive s employment with
the Company shall terminate effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by the Executive
(the   Disability Effective Date  ), provided that, within the 30 days after such receipt,
the Executive shall not have returned to full-time performance of the Executive s duties. For
purposes of this Agreement,   Disability   shall mean termination of the Executive s
employment upon satisfaction of the requirements to receive benefits under Wachovia s long-term
disability plan.

(b)      Cause . The Company may terminate the Executive s employment during the Employment
Period either with or without Cause. For purposes of this Agreement,   Cause   shall mean:

(i)     the continued and willful failure of the Executive to perform substantially the
Executive s duties with the Company or one of its affiliates (other than any such failure
resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), after a written demand for
substantial performance is delivered to the Executive by the Company which specifically
identifies the manner in which the Company believes that the Executive has not substantially
performed the Executive s duties and a reasonable time for such substantial performance has
elapsed since delivery of such demand;

(ii)     the willful engaging by the Executive in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which
is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company;

(iii)     the Executive s conviction of a crime involving dishonesty or breach of trust,
conviction of a felony, or commission of any act that makes Employee ineligible for coverage
under the Company s fidelity bond or otherwise makes him ineligible for continued
employment; or

(iv)     the Executive s violation of the Company s written employment policies as set
forth in the Handbook for Wells Fargo Team Members, including, but not limited to, the Wells
Fargo Code of Ethics and Business Conduct.

For purposes of this provision, no act or failure to act, on the part of the Executive, shall be
considered  willful  unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive in bad faith or
without reasonable belief that the Executive s action or omission was in the best interests of the
Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly
adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company (the   Board  ), upon instruction from the
CEO or upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or
omitted to be done, by the Executive in good faith and in the best interests of the Company.

(c)      Voluntary Resignation by the Executive other than a Window Period Termination .
The Executive s employment may be terminated by the Executive during the Employment Period at any
time upon 30 days  prior written notice to the Company other than a Window Period Termination (a
  Voluntary Resignation  ).

-4- 

(d)      Window Period Termination . The Executive s employment may be terminated either by
the Company without Cause or by the Executive for any reason, during the period commencing on May
1, 2009 and ending on December 15, 2009, provided the Executive s  separation from service  within
the meaning of Section 409A of the Code occurs on or before December 15, 2009 (any such
termination, a   Window Period Termination  ).

(e)      Notice of Termination . Any termination of the Executive s employment by the
Company for Cause or due to a Window Period Termination or by the Executive due to a Voluntary
Resignation, shall be communicated by Notice of Termination to the other party hereto given in
accordance with Section 11(f) of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, a   Notice of
Termination   means a written notice which (i) indicates the specific termination provision in
this Agreement relied upon, (ii) to the extent applicable, sets forth in reasonable detail the
facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive s employment
under the provision so indicated and (iii) if the Date of Termination (as defined below) is other
than the date of receipt of such notice, specifies the Date of Termination (which date shall be not
more than 30 days after the giving of such notice). The failure by the Company to set forth in the
Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Cause shall not
waive any right of the Company hereunder or preclude the Company from asserting such fact or
circumstance in enforcing its rights hereunder.

(f)      Date of Termination .   Date of Termination   means (i) if the Executive s
employment is terminated by the Company for Cause, by either party due to a Window Period
Termination or by the Executive due to a Voluntary Resignation, the date of receipt of the Notice
of Termination or any later date specified therein within 30 days of such notice, as the case may
be (which date shall, in the case of a Window Period Termination, be in no event later than
December 15, 2009), (ii) if the Executive s employment is terminated by the Company without Cause
(other than a Window Period Termination) or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date
on which the Company notifies the Executive of such termination, and (iii) if the Executive s
employment is terminated by reason of death or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the
date of death of the Executive or the Disability Effective Date, as the case may be.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the Date of Termination occur until the Executive
experiences a  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, and the
date on which such separation from service takes place shall be the  Date of Termination. 

6.      Obligations of the Company upon Termination . (a)  Window Period 
 Termination or Termination without Cause . If the Executive s employment shall terminate
due to a Window Period Termination or shall be terminated by the Company without Cause,

(i)     the Company shall pay to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 60 days after
the Date of Termination the aggregate of the following amounts:

A.     the sum of (1) the Executive s Annual Base Salary through the Date of
Termination to the extent not theretofore paid and (2) any accrued paid time off to
the extent not theretofore paid (the sum of the amounts described in clauses (1) and
(2) shall be hereinafter referred to as the   Accrued Obligations   and

-5- 

B.     subject to the Executive s execution and non-revocation of a release of
claims against the Company no later than 52 days following the Date of Termination,
a lump sum cash severance payment equal to $14,400,000, less any portion of the
Retention Bonus paid to the Executive as of the Date of Termination (the   Cash
Severance Payment  ) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section
6(a), in the event that the Executive is a  specified employee  within the meaning
of Section 409A of the Code (as determined in accordance with the methodology
established by the Company as in effect on the Date of Termination) (a
  Specified Employee  ), the Cash Severance Payment shall instead be paid on
the first business day after the date that is six months following the Executive s
Date of Termination (the   Delayed Payment Date  

(ii)     to the extent not theretofore paid or provided, the Company shall timely pay or
provide to the Executive any other amounts or benefits required to be paid or provided or
which the Executive is eligible to receive under any plan, program, policy or practice or
contract or agreement of the Company and the Affiliated Entities through the Date of
Termination (such other amounts and benefits shall be hereinafter referred to as the
  Other Benefits  ).

(iii)     for the remainder of the Executive s life, the Company shall continue medical,
dental and life insurance benefits to the Executive and/or the Executive s family on a
substantially equivalent basis to those which would have been provided to them in accordance
with the medical, dental and life insurance plans, programs, practices and policies
described in Section 4(e) of this Agreement if the Executive s employment had not been
terminated. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the Executive becomes reemployed
with another employer and becomes eligible to receive medical, dental and/or life insurance
benefits from such employer, the medical, dental and/or life insurance benefits described
herein shall be secondary to such benefits during the period of the Executive s eligibility,
but only to the extent that the Company reimburses the Executive for any increased cost and
provides any additional benefits necessary to give the Executive the benefits provided
hereunder. For purposes of determining eligibility (but not the time of commencement of
benefits) of the Executive for retiree benefits pursuant to such plans, practices, programs
and policies, the Executive shall be considered to have terminated employment with the
Company on the Date of Termination. The amount of any life insurance benefits provided
under the Wachovia Executive Life Insurance Plan (or any successor or replacement plan
thereto) shall not affect the life insurance benefits that may be provided under that plan
in any other taxable year, and the right to life insurance benefits under
that plan may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if the Company reasonably determines that providing continued coverage under
one or more of its welfare benefit plans contemplated herein could adversely affect the tax
treatment of other participants covered under such plans, or would otherwise have adverse
legal ramifications, the Company may, in its discretion, provide other coverage at least as
valuable as the continued coverage through insurance.

(iv)     for a period equal to (A) 36 months minus (B) the number of complete months that
have elapsed from the Effective Date through the Date of

-6- 

Termination, the Executive shall
continue participating in the Wachovia Executive Financial Planning Program, the Wachovia
Executive Long-Term Disability Plan and the Wachovia Executive Physical Program, in each
case, to the extent Executive participated in such plans, programs and policies immediately
prior to the Date of Termination and, in each case, in accordance with the plans, programs
and policies that exist on the Date of Termination.

(b)      Death . If the Executive s employment is terminated by reason of the Executive s
death during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to
the Executive s legal representatives under this Agreement, other than for payment of Accrued
Obligations and the timely payment or provision of the Other Benefits. Accrued Obligations shall
be paid to the Executive s estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within 30
days of the Date of Termination. With respect to the provision of Other Benefits, the term Other
Benefits as utilized in this Section 6(b) shall include, and the Executive s estate shall be
entitled after the Date of Termination to receive, death benefits as in effect at the Date of
Termination generally with respect to senior executives of the Company. In addition, in the event
that the Executive dies after delivery by the Company of a Notice of Termination with respect to a
Window Period Termination or a Termination without Cause, but prior to the Date of Termination
specified in such Notice of Termination, the Company shall pay the Cash Severance Payment to the
Executive s estate or a beneficiary designated by Executive for purposes of this Agreement, as
applicable, in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination of the Executive s
employment due to death.

(c)      Disability . If the Executive s employment is terminated by reason of the
Executive s Disability during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further
obligations to the Executive, other than for payment of Accrued Obligations and the timely payment
or provision of the Other Benefits. Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive in a lump
sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination. With respect to the provision of Other
Benefits, the term Other Benefits as utilized in this Section 6(c) shall include, and the Executive
shall be entitled after the Disability Effective Date to receive, disability and other benefits as
in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to senior executives of the Company. In
addition, in the event that the Executive s employment terminates due to Disability after delivery
by the Company of a Notice of Termination with respect to a Window Period Termination or a
Termination without Cause, but prior to the Date of Termination specified in such Notice of
Termination, subject to the Executive s execution and nonrevocation of a release of claims against
the Company no later than 52 days following the Date of Termination, the Company shall pay the Cash
Severance Payment to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 60 days of the Date of Termination
of the Executive s employment due to Disability; provided that, in the event the Executive is a
Specified Employee on the Date of Termination, the Cash Severance Payment shall instead be paid on
the Delayed Payment Date.

(d)      Cause; Voluntary Resignation . If the Executive s employment shall be terminated
by the Company for Cause or by the Executive due to a Voluntary Resignation, this Agreement shall
terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than for payment of Accrued
Obligations and the timely payment or provision of the Other Benefits. Accrued Obligations shall
be paid to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination.

-7- 

7.      Full Settlement . The Company s obligation to make the payments provided for in
this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any
set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may
have against the Executive or others. In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other
employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Executive
under any of the provisions of this Agreement and, such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not
the Executive obtains other employment.

8.      Additional Payments by the Company . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
this Agreement, the provisions of, and the Executive s rights under, Section 8 of that Employment
Agreement by and between the Executive and Wachovia, dated as of November 1, 2001, and restated as
of February 7, 2005, as amended on December 20, 2005 (the   Prior Agreement  ), will continue
in accordance with the terms thereof solely with respect to payments and benefits that are
considered  parachute payments  (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code) and are
 contingent on  or  closely associated with  the Merger. For the avoidance of doubt, Section 8 of
the Prior Agreement shall not apply with respect to payments or benefits that are  contingent on 
or  closely associated with  any transaction other than the Merger.

9.      Restrictive Covenants .

(a)      Confidential Information . The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for
the benefit of the Company all secret, non-public or confidential information, knowledge or data
relating to the Company or any of its affiliated companies, and their related businesses, which
shall have been obtained by the Executive during the Executive s employment by the Company or any
of its affiliated companies (or predecessors thereto). After termination of the Executive s
employment with the Company, the Executive shall not, without the prior written consent of the
Company or as may otherwise be required by law or legal process, communicate or divulge any such
information, knowledge or data to anyone other than the Company and those designated by it. In
addition to the foregoing, the Executive will refrain from taking any action or making any
statements, written or oral, which are intended to or which disparage the business, goodwill or
reputation of the Company or any of its affiliated companies, or their respective directors,
officers, executives or other employees, or which could adversely affect the morale of employees of
the Company or any of its affiliated companies.

(b)      Nonsolicitation . While employed by the Company and for one year after the Date of
Termination, the Executive shall not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of the Executive or any
other person, (i) solicit for employment by other than the Company, (ii) encourage to leave the
employ of the Company, or (iii) interfere with the Company s or its
affiliated companies  relationship with, any person employed by the Company or its affiliated
companies.

(c)      Equitable Remedies . In the event of a breach by the Executive of his obligations
under this Agreement, the Company, in addition to being entitled to exercise all rights granted by
law, including recovery of damages, will be entitled to specific performance of its rights under
this Agreement. The Executive acknowledges that the Company shall suffer irreparable harm in the
event of a breach or prospective breach of Sections 9(a) or (b) of this

-8- 

Agreement and that monetary
damages would not be adequate relief. Accordingly, the Company shall be entitled to injunctive
relief in any federal or state court of competent jurisdiction located in the State of Delaware, or
in any state in which the Executive resides.

10.      Successors . (a) This Agreement is personal to the Executive and without the
prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Executive. This Agreement and
any rights and benefits hereunder shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the
Executive s legal representatives, heirs or legatees. This Agreement and any rights and benefits
hereunder shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and
assigns.

(b)     The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger,
consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the
Company to assume expressly and agree to satisfy all of the obligations under this Agreement in the
same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to satisfy such obligations
if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement,   Company   shall mean the
Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which
assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.

11.      Arbitration . Except with respect to the Company s rights to injunctive relief for
matters arising under Section 9 of this Agreement, any disputes or controversies arising under or
in connection with this Agreement (including, without limitation, whether any such disputes or
controversies have been brought in bad faith) shall be settled exclusively by arbitration in
Charlotte, North Carolina in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of the American
Arbitration Association. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator s award in any court having
jurisdiction.

12.      Miscellaneous . (a)  Amendment . This Agreement may not be amended or
modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective
successors and legal representatives.

(b)      Withholding . The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this
Agreement such Federal, state, local or foreign taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant
to any applicable law or regulation.

(c)      Applicable Law . The provisions of this Agreement shall be construed in accordance
with the internal laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflict of law provisions
of any state.

(d)      Severability . The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this
Agreement will not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement,
and this Agreement will be construed as if such invalid or unenforceable provision were
omitted (but only to the extent that such provision cannot be appropriately reformed or modified).

(e)      Waiver of Breach . No waiver by any party hereto of a breach of any provision of
this Agreement by any other party, or of compliance with any condition or provision

-9- 

of this
Agreement to be performed by such other party, will operate or be construed as a waiver of any
subsequent breach by such other party of any similar or dissimilar provisions and conditions at the
same or any prior or subsequent time. The failure of any party hereto to take any action by reason
of such breach will not deprive such party of the right to take action at any time while such
breach continues.

(f)      Notices . Notices and all other communications provided for in this Agreement
shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally or sent by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or prepaid overnight courier to the parties at the
addresses set forth below (or such other addresses as shall be specified by the parties by like
notice):

to the Company:

Wells Fargo   Company 
420 Montgomery Street 
San Francisco, CA 94163 
Attention: General Counsel

or to the Executive:

At the most recent address maintained 
by the Company in its personnel records

Each party, by written notice furnished to the other party, may modify the applicable delivery
address, except that notice of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt. Such
notices, demands, claims and other communications shall be deemed given in the case of delivery by
overnight service with guaranteed next day delivery, the next day or the day designated for
delivery; or in the case of certified or registered U.S. mail, five days after deposit in the U.S.
mail; provided, however, that in no event shall any such communications be deemed to be given later
than the date they are actually received.

(g)      Section 409A . The Agreement is intended to comply with the requirements of
Section 409A of the Code or an exemption or exclusion therefrom and, with respect to amounts that
are subject to Section 409A of the Code, shall in all respects be administered in accordance with
Section 409A of the Code. Each payment under this Agreement shall be treated as a separate payment
for purposes of Section 409A of the Code. In no event may the Executive, directly or indirectly,
designate the calendar year of any payment to be made under this Agreement. If the Executive dies
following the Date of Termination and prior to the payment of the any amounts delayed on account of
Section 409A of the Code, such amounts shall be paid to the personal representative of the
Executive s estate within 30 days after the date of the Executive s death. All reimbursements and
in-kind benefits provided under this
Agreement that constitute deferred compensation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code
shall be made or provided in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code,
including, without limitation, that (i) in no event shall reimbursements by the Company under this
Agreement be made later than the end of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which
the applicable fees and expenses were incurred, provided, that the Executive shall

-10- 

have submitted
an invoice for such fees and expenses at least 10 days before the end of the calendar year next
following the calendar year in which such fees and expenses were incurred; (ii) the amount of
in-kind benefits that the Company is obligated to pay or provide in any given calendar year shall
not affect the in-kind benefits that the Company is obligated to pay or provide in any other
calendar year; (iii) the Executive s right to have the Company pay or provide such reimbursements
and in-kind benefits may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit; and (iv) in no event
shall the Company s obligations to make such reimbursements or to provide such in-kind benefits
apply later than the Executive s remaining lifetime (or if longer, through the 20th anniversary of
the Effective Date). Any tax gross-up payments under Section 8 of the Prior Agreement (as modified
by Section 8 of this Agreement) shall be paid no later than the date on which the taxes on the
underlying income are due to the applicable tax authority, and in any event prior to the end of
Executive s taxable year next following Executive s taxable year in which the applicable taxes (and
any income or other related taxes or interest or penalties thereon) are remitted to the applicable
taxing authority. Prior to the Effective Date but within the time period permitted by the
applicable Treasury Regulations (or such later time as may be permitted under Section 409A or any
IRS or Department of Treasury rules or other guidance issued thereunder), the Company may, in
consultation with the Executive, modify the Agreement, in the least restrictive manner necessary
and without any diminution in the value of the payments to the Executive, in order to cause the
provisions of the Agreement to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, so as to
avoid the imposition of taxes and penalties on the Executive pursuant to Section 409A of the Code.

(h)      Survivorship . Upon the expiration or other termination of this Agreement, the
respective rights and obligations of the parties hereto, including, without limitation, the
Company s rights and the Executive s obligations under Section 9 of this Agreement, shall survive
such expiration or other termination to the extent necessary to carry out the intentions of the
parties under this Agreement.

(i)      Entire Agreement . From and after the Effective Date, this Agreement shall
supersede any other employment, severance or change of control agreement between the parties with
respect to the subject matter hereof, including, except as expressly provided herein, and the Prior
Agreement.

(j)      Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in separate counterparts, each of which
is deemed to be an original and all of which taken together constitute one and the same
agreement.

-11- 

IN WITNESS THEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set his hand, and the Company has caused these
presents to be executed in its name and on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above
written.

David M. Carroll  

/s/ David M. Carroll 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

By:

/s/ Patricia R. Callahan 

</EX-10.(Y)>

<EX-12.(A)>
 6
 f51597exv12wxay.htm
 EX-12.(A)

exv12wxay 

EXHIBIT 12(a) 
WELLS FARGO   COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 

(1) 
       
     As defined in Item 503(d) of Regulation S-K. 

(2) 
       
     These computations are included herein in compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission
regulations. However, management believes that fixed charge ratios are not meaningful
measures for the business of the Company because of two factors. First, even if there was no
change in net income, the ratios would decline with an increase in the proportion of income
which is tax-exempt or, conversely, they would increase with a decrease in the proportion of
income which is tax-exempt. Second, even if there was no change in net income, the ratios
would decline if interest income and interest expense increase by the same amount due to an
increase in the level of interest rates or, conversely, they would increase if interest income
and interest expense decrease by the same amount due to a decrease in the level of interest
rates. 

</EX-12.(A)>

<EX-12.(B)>
 7
 f51597exv12wxby.htm
 EX-12.(B)

exv12wxby 

EXHIBIT 12(b) 
WELLS FARGO   COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
AND PREFERRED DIVIDENDS 

(1) 
       
     As defined in Item 503(d) of Regulation S-K. 

(2) 
       
     The preferred dividends, including accretion, were increased to amounts representing the pretax earnings that would
be required to cover such dividend and accretion requirements. 

(3) 
       
     These computations are included herein in compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission
regulations. However, management believes that fixed charge ratios are not meaningful measures
for the business of the Company because of two factors. First, even if there was no change in
net income, the ratios would decline with an increase in the proportion of income which is
tax-exempt or, conversely, they would increase with a decrease in the proportion of income
which is tax-exempt. Second, even if there was no change in net income, the ratios would
decline if interest income and interest expense increase by the same amount due to an increase
in the level of interest rates or, conversely, they would increase if interest income and
interest expense decrease by the same amount due to a decrease in the level of interest rates. 

</EX-12.(B)>

<EX-13>
 8
 f51597exv13.htm
 EX-13

exv13 

Financial
Review   

34 
       
     Overview 

41 
       
     Critical Accounting Policies 

47 
       
     Earnings Performance 

53 
       
     Balance Sheet Analysis 

55 
       
     Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

58 
       
     Risk Management 

73 
       
     Capital Management 

74 
       
     Comparison of 2007 with 2006 

76 
       
     Risk Factors 

Controls and Procedures   

84 
       
     Disclosure Controls and
Procedures 

84 
       
     Internal Control over Financial
Reporting 

84 
       
     Management s Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting 

85 
       
     Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm 

Financial Statements   

86 
       
     Consolidated Statement of Income 

87 
       
     Consolidated Balance Sheet 

88 
       
     Consolidated Statement of
Changes In Stockholders  Equity
and Comprehensive Income 

90 
       
     Consolidated Statement of
Cash Flows 

Notes to Financial Statements   

91

1

Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies 

100

2

Business Combinations 

33   

This Annual Report, including the Financial Review and the Financial Statements and related Notes,
has forward-looking statements, which may include forecasts of our financial results and condition,
expectations for our operations and business, and our assumptions for those forecasts and
expectations. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ
significantly from our forecasts and expectations due to several factors. Please refer to the  Risk
Factors  section of this Report for a discussion of some of the factors that may cause results to
differ. 

Financial Review  

Overview   

Wells Fargo   Company is a $1.3 trillion diversified
financial services company providing banking,
insurance, investments, mortgage banking, investment
banking, retail banking, brokerage and consumer
finance through banking stores, the internet and other
distribution channels to consumers, businesses and
institutions in all 50 states and in other countries.
We ranked fourth in assets and first in market value
of our common stock among our peers at December 31,
2008. When we refer to  the Company,   we,   our  or
 us  in this Report, we mean Wells Fargo   Company and
Subsidiaries (consolidated). When we refer to  the
Parent,  we mean Wells Fargo   Company.

We reported diluted earnings per common share of
$0.70 for 2008 compared with $2.38 for 2007. Net
income was $2.66 billion for 2008 compared with $8.06
billion for 2007. Net income for 2008 included an
$8.14 billion (pre tax) credit reserve build, $2.01
billion (pre tax) of other-than-temporary impairment
and $124 million (pre tax) of merger-related expenses.

On December 31, 2008, Wells Fargo acquired
Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia). Because the
acquisition was completed at the end of 2008,
Wachovia s results are not included in the income
statement, average balances or related metrics for
2008. Wachovia s assets and liabilities are included
in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31,
2008, at their respective acquisition date fair
values.

Our vision is to satisfy all our customers 
financial needs, help them succeed financially, be
recognized as the premier financial services company
in our markets and be one of America s great
companies. Our primary strategy to achieve this vision
is to increase the number of products our customers
buy from us and to give them all of the financial
products that fulfill their needs. Our cross-sell
strategy and diversified business model facilitate
growth in strong and weak economic cycles, as we can
grow by expanding the number of products our current
customers have with us. We continued to earn more of
our customers  business in 2008 in both our retail and
commercial banking businesses.

Despite the unprecedented contraction in the
credit markets, we continued to lend to credit-worthy
customers. We made $106 billion in new loan
commitments during 2008 to consumer, small business
and commercial customers and originated $230 billion
of residential mortgages. The fundamentals of our
time-tested business model are as sound as ever.
During fourth quarter 2008, our average core deposits
grew an impressive 31% (annualized) over the prior
quarter. Our cross-sell set records for the 10th
consecutive year our

average retail banking household now has 5.73
products, one of every four has eight or more
products, 6.4 products for Wholesale Banking
customers, and our average middle-market commercial
banking customer has almost eight products. Business
banking cross-sell reached 3.61 products. Our goal is
eight products per customer, which is currently half
of our estimate of potential demand. We were able to
increase our lending to creditworthy customers because
we were building capital and shrinking our balance
sheet in 2005 and 2006, when credit spreads were
unrealistically low and were not priced for their
underlying risk. We did make some mistakes, but for
the most part, we maintained our credit discipline. We
understand our customers  financial needs. As a
result, our company at year-end 2008 was one of the
world s strongest financial institutions. At February
23, 2009, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. has the highest
credit rating currently given to U.S. banks by Moody s
Investors Service,  Aa1,  and Standard   Poor s
Ratings Services,  AA . 

WACHOVIA MERGER   On December 31, 2008, Wachovia merged
into Wells Fargo   Company with Wells Fargo surviving
the merger. Wachovia, based in Charlotte, North
Carolina, was one of the nation s largest diversified
financial services companies, providing a broad range
of retail banking and brokerage, asset and wealth
management, and corporate and investment banking
products and services to customers through 3,300
financial centers in 21 states from Connecticut to
Florida and west to Texas and California, and
nationwide retail brokerage, mortgage lending and auto
finance businesses. In the merger, Wells Fargo
exchanged 0.1991 shares of its common stock for each
outstanding share of Wachovia common stock, issuing a
total of 422.7 million shares of Wells Fargo common
stock with a December 31, 2008, value of $12.5 billion
to Wachovia shareholders. Shares of each outstanding
series of Wachovia preferred stock were converted into
shares (or fractional shares) of a corresponding
series of Wells Fargo preferred stock having
substantially the same rights and preferences.
Wachovia s assets and liabilities are included in the
consolidated balance sheet at their respective
acquisition date fair values. Wachovia s year-end
assets at fair value totaled $707 billion. Because the
acquisition was completed at the end of 2008,
Wachovia s results of operations are not included in
our income statement. Based on the purchase price of
$23.1 billion and the fair value of net assets
acquired of $14.3 billion, the transaction resulted in
goodwill of $8.8 billion, which will change as
acquisition date fair values

34   

are refined over a period of up to one year following
the acquisition. Because the transaction closed on the
last day of the annual reporting period, certain fair
value purchase accounting adjustments were based on
data as of an interim period with estimates through
year end. Accordingly, we will be re-validating and,
where necessary, refining our purchase accounting
adjustments. We expect that the refinements will focus
largely on loans with evidence of credit
deterioration. The impact of any changes will be
recorded as an adjustment to goodwill.

The more significant fair value adjustments in our
purchase accounting for the Wachovia acquisition were
to loans. Certain of the loans acquired from Wachovia
have evidence of credit deterioration since
origination and it is probable that we will not
collect all contractually required principal and
interest payments. Such loans are accounted for under
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(AICPA) Statement of Position 03-3,  Accounting for
Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a
Transfer  (SOP 03-3). SOP 03-3 requires that acquired
credit-impaired loans be recorded at fair value and
prohibits carryover of the related allowance for loan
losses.

Loans within the scope of SOP 03-3 are initially
recorded at fair value. The application of the SOP,
and accordingly the process of estimating fair value,
involves estimating the principal and interest cash
flows expected to be collected on the credit-impaired
loans and discounting those cash flows at a market
rate of interest.

Under SOP 03-3, the excess of cash flows expected at
acquisition over the estimated fair value is referred
to as the accretable yield and is recognized in
interest income over the remaining life of the loan,
or pool of loans, in situations where there is a
reasonable expectation about the timing and amount of
cash flows expected to be collected. The difference
between contractually required payments at acquisition
and the cash flows expected to be collected at
acquisition, considering the impact of prepayments, is
referred to as the nonaccretable difference.
Subsequent decreases to the expected cash flows will
generally result in a charge to the provision for
credit losses resulting in an increase to the
allowance for loan losses. Subsequent increases in
cash flows result in reversal of any nonaccretable
difference (or allowance for loan losses to the extent
any has been recorded) with a positive impact on
interest income. Disposals of loans, which may include
sales of loans, receipt of payments in full by the
borrower, foreclosure or troubled debt restructurings
(TDRs) result in removal of the loan from the SOP 03-3
portfolio at its carrying amount.

Of the $446.1 billion of loans acquired in the
Wachovia merger, $93.9 billion were determined to be
credit-impaired and therefore subject to SOP 03-3.
Generally, loans on nonaccrual status were considered
to be credit-impaired for purposes of applying the
SOP. The fair value of these loans was $58.8 billion
at December 31, 2008. Wachovia s allowance for loan
losses related to the loans was $12.0 billion and such
allowance was not carried forward to the Wells Fargo
allowance, rather it

was reversed with an offset to goodwill. The
allowance for loan losses of $7.5 billion (excluding
the impact of conforming adjustments) associated with
loans not within the scope of SOP 03-3 was carried
over and is included in the consolidated allowance for
loan losses.

Loans subject to SOP 03-3 are written down to an
amount estimated to be collectible. Accordingly, such
loans are no longer classified as nonaccrual even
though they may be contractually past due. We expect
to fully collect the new carrying values of such loans
(that is, the new cost basis arising out of our
purchase accounting). Of Wachovia s pre-acquisition
nonaccrual loans, $20.0 billion are no longer
considered to be nonaccrual because of the application
of SOP 03-3 and $97 million continue to be reported as
nonaccrual because they are outside the scope of the
SOP. Loans subject to SOP 03-3 are also excluded from
the disclosure of loans 90 days or more past due and
still accruing interest even though substantially all
of them are 90 days or more contractually past due and
they are considered to be accruing because the
interest income on these loans relates to the
establishment of an accretable yield in accordance
with SOP 03-3.

As a result of the application of SOP 03-3 to
Wachovia s loans, certain ratios of the combined
company cannot be used to compare a portfolio that
includes acquired credit-impaired loans accounted for
under SOP 03-3 against one that does not, for example,
in comparing peer companies, and cannot be used to
compare ratios across years such as comparing 2008
ratios, which include the Wachovia acquisition,
against prior periods, which do not. The ratios
particularly affected by the accounting under SOP 03-3
include the allowance for loan losses as a percentage
of loans, nonaccrual loans, and nonperforming assets,
and nonaccrual loans and nonperforming assets as a
percentage of total loans.      Loans not subject to SOP
03-3 are recorded net of an adjustment to reflect
market interest rates. The allowance for loan losses
related to these loans of $7.5 billion was carried
over and included in the consolidated allowance for
loan losses.

SUMMARY RESULTS   Revenue, the sum of net interest
income and noninterest income, grew 6% to a record
$41.9 billion in 2008 from $39.4 billion in 2007. The
breadth and depth of our business model resulted in
very strong and balanced growth in loans, deposits and
fee-based products. We achieved positive operating
leverage (revenue growth of 6%; expense decline of
1%), the best among large bank peers. Net income for
2008 of $2.66 billion included an $8.14 billion (pre
tax) credit reserve build, $2.01 billion (pre tax) of
other-than-temporary impairment and $124 million (pre
tax) of merger-related expenses. Diluted earnings per
share of $0.70 included credit reserve build ($1.51
per share) and other-than-temporary impairment ($0.37
per share). Industry-leading annual results included
the highest growth in pre-tax pre-provision earnings
(up 16%), highest net interest margin (4.83%), return
on average common stockholders  equity (ROE), return
on average total assets (ROA) and highest total
shareholder return among large bank peers (up 2%).

35   

We are among the banking industry s leaders in
increasing loans and assets and remained  open for
business  in providing credit to consumers, small
businesses and commercial customers. Average earning
assets, primarily loans and securities, were up $119
billion, or 28%, since the start of the credit crisis
in mid-2007. We have made $187 billion of new loan
commitments to consumer and commercial customers since
mid-2007. We have originated $354 billion of
residential real estate loans since mid-2007,
including $50 billion in fourth quarter 2008. We have
continued to help homeowners remain in their homes. We
delivered over 498,000 solutions to customers in 2008,
including 143,000 in the fourth quarter alone, through
repayment plans, modifications and other loss
mitigation options and are working with government
agencies, HOPE NOW and others. Wells Fargo has led the
industry in development of programs for at-risk
customers to avoid foreclosure.

Among the many products and services that grew in
2008, we achieved the following results:

Average loans grew 16%; 

Average core deposits grew 7%; and 

Assets under management were up 45%,
including $510 billion from Wachovia. 

We have significantly strengthened the balance
sheet and future earnings stream of the new Wells
Fargo. This included the following actions:

$37.2
billion of credit write-downs taken at December 31,
2008, through purchase accounting adjustments on $93.9
billion of high-risk loans in Wachovia s loan
portfolio 

Reduced the cost basis of the Wachovia
securities portfolio by $9.6 billion, reflecting
$2.4 billion of recognized losses in the fourth
quarter and write-off of $7.2 billion of
unrealized losses previously reflected in
negative cumulative other comprehensive income 

Additional net $2.9 billion of Wachovia negative
cumulative other comprehensive income written
off, primarily related to pension obligations 

Wachovia period-end loans, securities, trading
assets and loans held for sale reduced by $115.2
billion, or 17%, from June 30, 2008 

$8.1 billion
credit reserve build, including $3.9 billion of
provision to conform to the most conservative
methodology from each company within Federal Financial
Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) guidelines 

-    
     $2.7 billion for Wells Fargo s consumer portfolios 

-    
     $1.2 billion for Wachovia s commercial and Pick-a-Pay portfolios 

Wells Fargo securities portfolio
written down by $2.0 billion for
other-than-temporary impairment 

Our combined allowance for credit losses was
$21.7 billion at December 31, 2008, which represents
3.2 times coverage of nonaccrual loans. At December
31, 2008, our combined allowance covered 12 months of
estimated losses for all consumer portfolios and at
least 24 months for all commercial and commercial real
estate portfolios. As described on page 35, our
nonaccrual loans excluded $20.0 billion of SOP 03-3
loans that were previously reflected as nonaccrual by
Wachovia.

With the acquisition of Wachovia, we have leading
market positions in deposits in many communities in
our expanded banking footprint, including #1 market
share in 18 of our 39 combined community banking
states and the District of Columbia. In addition, we
are the #1 lender in the following markets:
middle-market companies, commercial real estate, small
business and agriculture, and the #1 commercial real
estate broker and bank-owned insurance broker. 
     We have
stated in the past that to consistently grow over the
long term, successful companies must invest in their
core businesses and maintain strong balance sheets. In
addition to the Wachovia acquisition, we continued to
make investments in 2008 by opening 58 regional
banking stores and converting 32 stores acquired from
Greater Bay Bancorp, Farmers State Bank and United
Bancorporation of Wyoming, Inc. to our network. 
     We believe it is important to maintain a well-controlled
environment as we continue to grow our businesses. We
manage our credit risk by setting what we believe are
sound credit policies for underwriting new business,
while monitoring and reviewing the performance of our
loan portfolio. We manage the interest rate and market
risks inherent in our asset and liability balances
within prudent ranges, while ensuring adequate
liquidity and funding. We maintain strong capital
levels to provide for future growth.       At December 31,
2008, consolidated Tier 1 regulatory capital was $86.4
billion, after the impact of purchase accounting for
credit impairments of loans and write-down of negative
cumulative other comprehensive income at Wachovia,
which, in the aggregate, reduced the Tier 1 capital
ratio by approximately 230 basis points to 7.8% at
year end, well above regulatory minimums for a
well-capitalized bank. 
     The Board of Directors declared a common stock
dividend of $0.34 per share for first quarter 2009.

Our financial results included the following:

Net income in 2008 was $2.66 billion ($0.70 per
share), compared with $8.06 billion ($2.38 per share)
in 2007. Results for 2008 included the impact of our
$8.1 billion (pre tax) credit reserve build, which
included a $3.9 billion (pre tax) provision to conform
both Wells Fargo s and Wachovia s credit reserve
practices to the more conservative of each company.
Results for 2007 included the impact of our $1.4
billion (pre tax) credit reserve build ($0.27 per
share) and $203 million of Visa litigation expenses
($0.04 per share). Despite the challenging environment
in 2008, we achieved both top line revenue growth and
positive operating leverage (revenue growth of 6%;
expense decline of 1%). ROA was 0.44% and ROE was
4.79% in 2008, compared with 1.55% and 17.12%,
respectively, in 2007. Both ROA and ROE were at or
near the top of our large bank peers. 
     Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent
basis was $25.4 billion in 2008, up from $21.1
billion a year ago, reflecting strong loan growth,
disciplined deposit pricing and lower market funding
costs. Average earning assets grew 17% from 2007. Our
net interest margin was 4.83% for 2008, up from 4.74%
in 2007, primarily due to the benefit of lower
funding costs as market rates declined.

36  

Noninterest income decreased 9% to $16.8 billion
in 2008 from $18.4 billion in 2007. Card fees were up
9% from a year ago, due to continued growth in new
accounts and higher credit and debit card transaction
volume. Insurance revenue was up 20%, due to customer
growth, higher crop insurance revenue and the fourth quarter 2007
acquisition of ABD Insurance. However, trust and
investment fees decreased 7% and other fees decreased
9%, due to depressed market conditions. Operating
lease income decreased 39% from a year ago, due to
continued softening in the auto market, reflecting
tightened credit standards. Noninterest income
included $300 million in net gains on debt and equity
securities, including $2.01 billion of
other-than-temporary impairment write-downs. 
     During
2008, noninterest income was affected by changes in
interest rates, widening credit spreads, and other
credit and housing market conditions, including:

($2.01) billion of other-than-temporary impairment 

($847) million in write-downs of loans in the
mortgage warehouse due to changes in liquidity
and other spreads, and additions to the
mortgage repurchase reserve 

($242) million mortgage servicing rights
(MSRs) mark to market, net of hedge gain 

($228) million of other changes in the mortgage
pipeline/warehouse value including a decline in
servicing value, net of pipeline/warehouse hedge
results 

Noninterest expense was $22.7 billion in 2008,
down 1% from $22.8 billion in 2007. We continued to
invest in new stores and additional sales and
service-related team members.       
In 2008, net charge-offs were $7.84 billion (1.97% of average total loans), up
$4.3 billion from $3.54 billion (1.03%) in 2007.
Commercial and commercial real estate net charge-offs
increased $1.25 billion in 2008 from 2007, of which
$379 million

was from loans originated through our
Business Direct channel. Business Direct consists
primarily of unsecured lines of credit to small firms
and sole proprietors that tend to perform in a manner
similar to credit cards. Total wholesale net
charge-offs (excluding Business Direct) were $967
million (0.11% of average loans). The remaining
balance of commercial and commercial real estate loans
(other real estate mortgage, real estate construction
and lease financing) experienced some deterioration
from 2007 with loss levels increasing, reflecting the
credit environment in 2008. 
     Home Equity net
charge-offs were $2.21 billion (2.59% of average Home
Equity loans) in 2008, compared with $595 million
(0.73%) in 2007. Since our loss experience through
third party channels was significantly worse than
other retail channels, in 2007 we segregated these
indirect loans into a liquidating portfolio. While the
$10.3 billion of loans in this liquidating portfolio
represented about 1% of total loans outstanding at
December 31, 2008, these loans represent some of the
highest risk in our $129.5 billion Home Equity
portfolios. The loans in the liquidating portfolio
were primarily sourced through wholesale channels
(brokers) and correspondents. Additionally, they are
largely concentrated in geographic markets that have
experienced the most abrupt and steepest declines in
housing prices. We continue to provide home equity
financing directly to our customers, but have stopped
originating or acquiring new home equity loans through
indirect channels unless they are behind a Wells Fargo
first mortgage and have a combined loan-to-value ratio
lower than 85%. We also experienced increased net
charge-offs in our unsecured consumer portfolios, such
as credit cards and lines of credit, in part due to
growth and in part due to increased economic stress in
households.

(1) 
       
     Core deposits are noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing checking, savings
certificates, market rate and other savings, and certain foreign deposits (Eurodollar sweep
balances). 

37  

Auto portfolio net charge-offs for 2008 were
$1.23 billion (4.50% of average auto loans), compared
with $1.02 billion (3.45%) in 2007. While we have
continued to reduce the size of this portfolio and
limited additional growth, the economic environment
has adversely affected portfolio results. We have
remained focused on our loss mitigation strategies,
however, credit performance has deteriorated as a
result of increased unemployment and depressed used
car values, resulting in higher than expected losses
for the year. 
     The provision for credit losses was
$15.98 billion in 2008, an increase of $11.04 billion
from $4.94 billion in 2007, due to higher net
charge-offs and the 2008 credit reserve build of $8.14
billion, including $3.9 billion to conform estimated
loss emergence coverage periods to the most
conservative of each company within FFIEC guidelines
($2.7 billion for Wells Fargo consumer loans and $1.2
billion for Wachovia commercial and Pick-a-Pay loans).
The balance of the reserve build was attributed to
higher projected loss rates across the majority of the
consumer credit business, and some credit
deterioration and growth in the wholesale portfolios.
The allowance for credit losses, which consists of the
allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded
credit commitments, was $21.7 billion (2.51% of total
loans) at December 31, 2008, compared with $5.52
billion (1.44%) at December 31, 2007. 
     At December 31, 2008, total nonaccrual loans were
$6.80 billion (0.79% of total loans) up from $2.68
billion (0.70%) at December 31, 2007. Total nonaccrual
loans at December 31, 2008, excluded $20.0 billion of
SOP 03-3 loans that were previously reflected as
nonaccrual by Wachovia. The majority of the $4.1
billion increase in nonaccrual loans was in the real
estate 1-4 family first mortgage portfolio, including
$742 million in Wells Fargo Financial real estate and
$424 million in Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, and was due to the national rise in
mortgage default rates. Total nonperforming assets
(NPAs) were $9.01 billion (1.04% of total loans) at
December 31, 2008, compared with $3.87 billion (1.01%)
at December 31, 2007. Total NPAs at December 31, 2008,
excluded $20.0 billion of SOP 03-3 loans that were
previously reflected as nonperforming by Wachovia.
Foreclosed assets were $2.19 billion at December 31,
2008, including $885 million from Wachovia, compared
with $1.18 billion at December 31, 2007. Foreclosed
assets, a component of total NPAs, included $1.53
billion and $649 million in residential property and
auto loans and $667 million and $535 million of
foreclosed real estate securing Government National
Mortgage Association (GNMA) loans at December 31, 2008
and 2007, respectively, consistent with regulatory
reporting requirements. The foreclosed real estate
securing GNMA loans of $667 million represented eight
basis points of the ratio of NPAs to loans at December
31, 2008. Both principal and interest for the GNMA
loans secured by the foreclosed real estate are
collectible because the GNMA loans are insured by the
Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by
the Department of Veterans Affairs. 
     The Company and each of its subsidiary banks
remained  well capitalized  under applicable
regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. The ratio of
common stockholders  equity to total

assets was 5.21%
at December 31, 2008, compared with 8.28% at December
31, 2007. Our total risk-based capital (RBC) ratio at
December 31, 2008, was 11.83% and our Tier 1 RBC ratio
was 7.84%, exceeding the minimum regulatory guidelines
of 8% and 4%, respectively, for bank holding
companies. Our RBC ratios at December 31, 2007, were
10.68% and 7.59%, respectively. Our Tier 1 leverage
ratios were 14.52% and 6.83% at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively, exceeding the minimum regulatory
guideline of 3% for bank holding companies.

(1) 
       
     The efficiency ratio is noninterest expense
divided by total revenue (net interest income and
noninterest income). 

(2) 
       
     See Note 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital
Requirements) to Financial Statements for
additional information. 

(3) 
       
     Due to the Wachovia acquisition closing on
December 31, 2008, the Tier 1 leverage ratio, which
considers period-end Tier 1 capital and quarterly
averages in the computation of the ratio, does not
reflect average assets of Wachovia for the full
period. 

(4) 
       
     Dividends declared per common share as a
percentage of earnings per common share. 

(5) 
       
     Based on daily prices reported on the New York
Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting
System. 

Current Accounting Developments    
On January 1, 2008, we adopted the following new
accounting pronouncements:

FSP FIN 39-1   Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) Staff Position on
Interpretation No. 39,
 Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39;  

EITF 06-4   Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF)
Issue No. 06-4,  Accounting for Deferred
Compensation and Postretirement Benefit Aspects
of Endorsement Split-Dollar Life Insurance
Arrangements;  

EITF 06-10   EITF Issue No. 06-10,
 Accounting for Collateral Assignment
Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements; 
and 

SAB 109   Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 109,
 Written Loan Commitments Recorded at Fair Value
Through Earnings.  

38  

On July 1, 2008, we adopted the following new
accounting pronouncement:

FSP FAS 157-3   FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157-3,
 Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset
When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active.  

We adopted the following new accounting
pronouncements, which were effective for year-end
2008 reporting:

On April 30, 2007, the FASB issued FSP FIN 39-1,
which amends Interpretation No. 39 to permit a
reporting entity to offset the right to reclaim cash
collateral (a receivable), or the obligation to return
cash collateral (a payable), against derivative
instruments executed with the same counterparty under
the same master netting arrangement. The provisions of
this FSP are effective for the year beginning on
January 1, 2008, with early adoption permitted. We
adopted FSP FIN 39-1 on January 1, 2008, and it did
not have a material effect on our consolidated
financial statements.

On September 20, 2006, the FASB ratified the
consensus reached by the EITF at its September 7,
2006, meeting with respect to EITF 06-4. On March 28,
2007, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the
EITF at its March 15, 2007, meeting with respect to
EITF 06-10. These pronouncements require that for
endorsement split-dollar life insurance arrangements
and collateral split-dollar life insurance
arrangements where the employee is provided benefits
in postretirement periods, the employer should
recognize the cost of providing that insurance over
the employee s service period by accruing a liability
for the benefit obligation. Additionally, for
collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance
arrangements, an employer is required to recognize and
measure an asset based upon the nature and substance
of the agreement. EITF 06-4 and EITF 06-10 are
effective for the year beginning on January 1, 2008,
with early adoption permitted. We adopted EITF 06-4
and EITF 06-10 on January 1, 2008, and reduced
beginning retained earnings for 2008 by $20 million
(after tax), primarily related to split-dollar life
insurance arrangements from the acquisition of Greater
Bay Bancorp.

On November 5, 2007, the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) issued SAB 109, which
provides the staff s views on the accounting for
written loan commitments recorded at fair value under
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
To make the staff s views consistent with current
authoritative accounting
guidance, SAB 109 revises and rescinds portions of SAB 105,  Application of 

Accounting Principles to Loan Commitments. 
Specifically, SAB 109 states that the expected net
future cash flows associated with the servicing of a
loan should be included in the measurement of all
written loan commitments that are accounted for at
fair value through earnings. The provisions of SAB
109, which we adopted on January 1, 2008, are
applicable to written loan commitments recorded at
fair value that are entered into beginning on or after
January 1, 2008. The implementation of SAB 109 did not
have a material impact on our first quarter 2008
results or the valuation of our loan commitments.

On October 10, 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS
157-3, which clarifies the application of FAS 157,
 Fair Value Measurements,  in an inactive market and
illustrates how an entity would determine fair value
when the market for a financial asset is not active.
The FSP states that an entity should not automatically
conclude that a particular transaction price is
determinative of fair value. In a dislocated market,
judgment is required to evaluate whether individual
transactions are forced liquidations or distressed
sales. When relevant observable market information is
not available, a valuation approach that incorporates
management s judgments about the assumptions that
market participants would use in pricing the asset in
a current sale transaction is acceptable. The FSP also
indicates that quotes from brokers or pricing services
may be relevant inputs when measuring fair value, but
are not necessarily determinative in the absence of an
active market for the asset. In weighing a broker
quote as an input to a fair value measurement, an
entity should place less reliance on quotes that do
not reflect the result of market transactions.
Further, the nature of the quote (for example, whether
the quote is an indicative price or a binding offer)
should be considered when weighing the available
evidence. The FSP was effective immediately and
applied to prior periods for which financial
statements have not been issued, including interim or
annual periods ending on or before September 30, 2008.
We adopted the FSP prospectively, beginning July 1,
2008. The adoption of the FSP did not have a material
impact on our consolidated financial results or fair
value determinations.

On December 11, 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS
140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8. This FSP is intended to improve
disclosures about transfers of financial assets and
continuing involvement with both qualifying special
purpose entities (QSPEs) and variable interest
entities (VIEs). The FSP requires qualitative and
quantitative disclosures surrounding the nature of a
company s continuing involvement with QSPEs and VIEs,
the carrying amount and classification of related
assets and liabilities, including the nature of any
restrictions on those assets and liabilities;
contractual or non-contractual support provided to
either QSPEs or VIEs; and a company s maximum exposure
to loss related to these activities. This FSP amends
FAS 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of
Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities  
a replacement of FASB Statement No. 125,  and FIN
46(R),  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
(revised December 2003)   an interpretation of ARB
No. 51.  The FSP is effective for reporting periods
(annual or interim) ending after December 15, 2008.

39  

Because the FSP amends only the disclosure
requirements, the adoption of the FSP did not affect
our consolidated financial results. For additional
information, see Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable
Interest Entities).

On September 12, 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS
133-1 and FIN 45-4. This FSP is intended to improve
disclosures about credit derivatives by requiring
more information about the potential adverse effects
of changes in credit risk on the financial position,
financial performance and cash flows of the sellers
of credit derivatives. It amends FAS 133,
 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities,  to require disclosures by sellers of
credit derivatives, including credit derivatives
embedded in hybrid instruments. The FSP also amends
FIN 45,  Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure
Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others   an
interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57, and 107
and rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34,  to
require an additional disclosure about the current
status of the payment/performance risk of a
guarantee. The provisions of the FSP that amend FAS
133 and FIN 45 are effective for reporting periods
(annual or interim) ending after November 15, 2008.
Because the FSP amends only the disclosure
requirements for credit derivatives and certain
guarantees, the adoption of the FSP did not affect
our consolidated financial results.

On October 14, 2008, the SEC s Office of the
Chief Accountant (OCA) clarified its views on the
application of other-than-temporary impairment
guidance in FAS 115,
 Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities,  to certain perpetual preferred securities.
The OCA concluded that it would not object to a
registrant applying an other-than-temporary impairment
model to investments in perpetual preferred securities
that possess significant debt-like characteristics
that is similar to the impairment model applied to
debt securities, provided there has been no evidence
of deterioration in credit of the issuer. An entity is
permitted to apply the OCA s views in its financial
statements included in filings subsequent to the date
of the letter. Accordingly, in third quarter 2008, we
began applying this OCA guidance and have subsequently
recorded other-than-temporary impairment on certain
investment grade perpetual preferred securities where
we believe credit events of the issuers have occurred.

On January 12, 2009, the FASB issued FSP EITF
99-20-1, which amends EITF 99-20,  Recognition of
Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased
Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests That
Continue to Be Held by a Transferor in Securitized
Financial Assets  (EITF 99-20), to achieve more
consistent determinations of whether
other-than-temporary impairments of
available-for-sale or held-to-maturity debt
securities have occurred. The provisions of the FSP
are to be applied prospectively and are considered
effective for reporting periods (annual or interim)
ending after December 15, 2008. Beginning with our
fourth quarter 2008 results, based on this FSP
guidance, we recorded no other-than-temporary
impairment for certain EITF 99-20 securities that
otherwise may have been considered impaired.

On December 4, 2007, the FASB issued FAS 141
(revised 2007),  Business Combinations  (FAS 141R). This
statement requires an acquirer to recognize the assets
acquired (including loan receivables), the liabilities
assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the
acquiree at the acquisition date, to be measured at
their fair values as of that date, with limited
exceptions. The acquirer is not permitted to recognize
a separate valuation allowance as of the acquisition
date for loans and other assets acquired in a business
combination. The revised statement requires
acquisition-related costs to be expensed separately
from the acquisition. It also requires restructuring
costs that the acquirer expected but was not obligated
to incur, to be expensed separately from the business
combination. FAS 141R is applicable prospectively to
business combinations completed on or after January 1,
2009. Early adoption is not permitted.

In December 2008, the FASB issued FAS 160,
 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
Statements   an amendment of ARB No. 51  (FAS 160).
FAS 160 requires that noncontrolling interests
(referred to as minority interests) be reported as a
component of stockholders  equity in the balance
sheet. Prior to adoption of FAS 160 they are
classified in liabilities or between liabilities and
stockholders  equity. This new standard also changes
the way a minority interest is presented in the income
statement such that a parent s consolidated income
statement includes amounts attributable to both the
parent s interest and the noncontrolling interest. FAS
160 requires that a parent recognize a gain or loss
when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. The remaining
interest is initially recorded at fair value. Other
changes in ownership interest where the parent
continues to have a majority ownership interest in the
subsidiary are accounted for as capital transactions.

FAS 160 is effective for fiscal years and
interim periods within fiscal years, beginning on or
after December 15, 2008. Early adoption is not
permitted. Adoption is applied prospectively to all
noncontrolling interests including those that arose
prior to the adoption of FAS 160, with retrospective
adoption required for disclosure of noncontrolling
interests held as of the adoption date.

We hold a controlling interest in a joint venture
with Prudential Financial, Inc. (Prudential) as
described in more detail on page 57. Prudential s
noncontrolling interest of 23% is included in other
liabilities in the balance sheet, and amounted to $824
million at December 31, 2008. Under the terms of the
original agreement under which the joint venture was
established between Wachovia and Prudential, each
party has certain rights such that changes in our
ownership interest can occur. Prudential has stated
its intention to exercise its option to put its
noncontrolling interest to us at a date in the future.

As a result of the issuance of FAS 160 and
related interpretive guidance, along with this stated
intention, in the first quarter of 2009, the carrying
value of Prudential s noncontrolling interest in the
joint venture will be increased from its December 31,
2008, carrying value to the estimated maximum
redemption amount, with the offset recorded to
additional paid-in capital.

40  

On February 20, 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 140-3,
 Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial
Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities  (FSP FAS
140-3). FSP
FAS 140-3 requires that, if an entity transfers a loan
to, and then subsequently executes a repurchase
financing with the transferor collateralized by that
loan, then the transferor would not be permitted to
treat the initial transfer as a sale unless certain
criteria are met, including that the transferred asset
must be readily obtainable in the marketplace. The
provisions of this FSP are effective beginning January
1, 2009, and shall be applied prospectively to initial
transfers and repurchase financings for which the
initial transfer is executed on or after this date.
Early application is not permitted. FSP FAS 140-3 is
not expected to have a material effect on our
consolidated financial results.

On March 19, 2008, the FASB issued FAS 161,
 Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities   an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 
(FAS 161). FAS 161 changes the disclosure
requirements for derivative instruments and hedging
activities. It requires enhanced disclosures about
how and why an entity uses derivatives, how
derivatives and related hedged items are accounted
for, and how derivatives and hedged items affect an
entity s financial position, performance and cash
flows. The provisions of FAS 161 are effective for
financial statements issued for fiscal years and
interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008,
with early adoption encouraged. Because FAS 161
amends only the disclosure requirements for
derivative instruments and hedged items, the adoption
of FAS 161 will not affect our consolidated financial
results.

Critical Accounting Policies  

Our significant accounting policies (see Note 1
(Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to
Financial Statements) are fundamental to understanding
our results of operations and financial condition,
because they require that we use estimates and
assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or
liabilities and financial results. Six of these
policies are critical because they require management
to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments
about matters that are inherently uncertain and
because it is likely that materially different amounts
would be reported under different conditions or using
different assumptions. These policies govern:

the
allowance for credit losses; 

acquired loans
accounted for under SOP 03-3; 

the valuation of
residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs); 

the
fair valuation of financial instruments; 

pension
accounting; and 

income taxes. 

Management has reviewed and approved these
critical accounting policies and has discussed these
policies with the Audit and Examination Committee of
the Company s Board of Directors.

Allowance for Credit Losses    
The allowance for credit losses, which consists of
the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for
unfunded credit commitments, is management s estimate
of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio at
the balance sheet date. We have an established
process, using several analytical tools and
benchmarks, to calculate a range of possible outcomes
and determine the adequacy of the allowance. The
allowance carried over from Wachovia was generally
subject to the same methodology described
above. No single statistic or measurement determines
the adequacy of the allowance. Loan recoveries and
the provision for credit losses increase the
allowance, while loan charge-offs decrease the
allowance.

PROCESS TO DETERMINE THE ADEQUACY OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR
CREDIT LOSSES   While we attribute portions of the
allowance to specific loan categories as part of our
analytical process, the entire allowance is used to
absorb credit losses inherent in the total loan
portfolio.

At December 31, 2008, the portion of the
allowance for credit losses estimated at a pooled
level for consumer loans and some segments of
commercial small business loans was $16.4 billion. For
purposes of determining the allowance for credit
losses, we pool certain loans in our portfolio by
product type, primarily for the auto, credit card and
real estate mortgage portfolios. To achieve greater
accuracy, we further segment selected portfolios. As
appropriate, the business groups may attempt to
achieve greater accuracy through segmentation by
sub-product, origination channel, vintage, loss type,
geography and other predictive characteristics. For
example, credit cards are segmented by origination
channel and the Home Equity portfolios are further
segmented between liquidating and nonliquidating. In
the case of residential mortgages, we segment the
liquidating Pick-a-Pay portfolio, and further segment
this portfolio based on origination channel.

To
measure losses inherent in consumer loans and some
commercial small business loans, we use loss models
and other quantitative, mathematical techniques to
forecast losses. Each business group forecasts losses
for loans as of the balance sheet date over the
estimated loss emergence period.

Each business group determines the model type
and/or segmentation method that fits the loss
characteristics of its portfolios and provides the
greatest level of forecasting accuracy. We use both
internally developed and vendor supplied roll rate/net
cash flow models. Roll rate/net cash flow models,
vintage base-models and behavior score models are
often used for near-term loss projections as well as
time series/statistical trend models for longer term
projections. Models are independently validated and
are reviewed by corporate credit personnel to ensure
that the theory, assumptions, data,

41  

computational processes, reporting and end-user controls of the models are appropriate and well
documented. In addition, regulatory examiners review and perform detailed tests of our allowance
processes.

Forecasted losses are compared with actual losses and this information is used by management
in order to develop an allowance that management believes adequate to cover losses inherent in the
loan portfolio as of the reporting date.

The portion of the allowance for commercial loans, commercial real estate loans and lease
financing was $4.5 billion at December 31, 2008. We initially estimate this portion of the
allowance by applying historical loss factors statistically derived from tracking losses associated
with actual portfolio movements over a specified period of time, for each specific loan grade.
Based on this process, we assign loss factors to each pool of graded loans and a loan equivalent
amount for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit. These estimates are then adjusted or
supplemented where necessary from additional analysis of long-term average loss experience,
external loss data or other risks identified from current conditions and trends in selected
portfolios, including management s judgment for imprecision and uncertainty.

We also assess and
account for certain nonaccrual commercial and commercial real estate loans that are over $5 million
and certain consumer, commercial and commercial real estate loans whose terms have been modified in
a troubled debt restructuring as impaired. We include the impairment on these nonperforming loans
in the allowance unless it has already been recognized as a loss. At December 31, 2008, we included
$816 million in the allowance related to impaired loans.

Reflected in the portions of the allowance previously described is an amount for imprecision
or uncertainty that incorporates the range of probable outcomes inherent in estimates used for the
allowance, which may change from period to period. This amount is the result of our judgment of
risks inherent in the portfolios, economic uncertainties, historical loss experience and other
subjective factors, including industry trends, calculated to better reflect our view of risk in
each loan portfolio.

In addition, the allowance for credit losses included a reserve for unfunded credit
commitments of $698 million at December 31, 2008.

The total allowance reflects management s estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan
portfolio at the balance sheet date. To estimate the possible range of allowance required at
December 31, 2008, and the related change in provision expense, we assumed the following scenarios
of a reasonably possible deterioration or improvement in loan credit quality.

Assumptions for deterioration in loan credit quality were:

for consumer loans, a 55 basis point increase in estimated loss rates from actual 2008 loss
levels, prolonged residential real estate value deterioration, continued increase in
unemployment levels and higher bankruptcy levels; and 

for wholesale loans, a 17 basis point increase in estimated loss rates from actual 2008 loss
levels, an increase in corporate bankruptcies and continued deterioration in the homebuilder
environment. 

Assumptions for improvement in loan credit quality were:

for consumer loans, a 24 basis point decrease in estimated loss rates from actual 2008 loss
levels, adjusting for residential real estate value stabilization and real estate sales market
improvement; and 

for wholesale loans, a 14 basis point decrease in estimated loss rates, large unexpected
losses not realized and an improved home builder environment. 

Under these assumptions for deterioration in loan credit quality, another $3.2 billion in
expected losses could occur and under the assumptions for improvement, a $1.6 billion reduction in
expected losses could occur.

Changes in the estimate of the allowance for credit losses and the related provision expense
can materially affect net income. The example above is only one of a number of reasonably possible
scenarios. Determining the allowance for credit losses requires us to make forecasts of losses that
are highly uncertain and require a high degree of judgment. The increase in the allowance for
credit losses in excess of net charge-offs in 2008 was primarily due to adjustments to conform to
the most conservative methodology from Wells Fargo and Wachovia, general deterioration in most of
our portfolios given the current economic
environment, especially in the Home Equity portfolios stemming from the steeper than
anticipated decline in national home prices and a lengthening in the loss emergence timing for
consumer credit portfolios. See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial
Statements and  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management Process  for further discussion of our
allowance for credit losses.

Acquired Loans Accounted for under SOP 03-3 

Loans purchased with evidence of credit deterioration since origination and for which it is
probable that all contractually required payments will not be collected are considered to be credit
impaired. Evidence of credit quality deterioration as of the purchase date may include statistics
such as past due and nonaccrual status, recent borrower credit scores and recent loan to value
percentages. Purchased credit-impaired loans are accounted for under SOP 03-3 and initially
measured at fair value, which includes estimated future credit losses expected to be incurred over
the life of the loan. Accordingly, an allowance for credit losses related to these loans is not
carried over and recorded at the acquisition date. We estimate the cash flows expected to be
collected at acquisition using our internal credit risk, interest rate risk and prepayment risk
models, which incorporate our best estimate of current key assumptions, such as default rates, loss
severity and prepayment speeds.

Under SOP 03-3, the excess of cash flows expected at acquisition over the estimated fair value
is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest income over the remaining life
of the loan, or pool of loans, in situations where there is a reasonable expectation about the
timing and amount of cash flows expected to be collected. The difference between the contractually
required payments at acquisition and the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition,

42  

considering the impact of prepayments, is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. Subsequent
decreases to the expected cash flows will generally result in a charge to the provision for credit
losses resulting in an increase to the allowance for loan losses. Subsequent increases in cash
flows result in reversal of any nonaccretable difference (or allowance for loan losses to the
extent any has been recorded) with a positive impact on interest income. Disposals of loans, which
may include sales of loans, receipt of payments in full by the borrower, foreclosure or TDRs,
result in removal of the loan from the SOP 03-3 portfolio at its carrying amount.

In connection with the Wachovia acquisition, we acquired certain loans that were deemed to be
credit impaired under SOP 03-3. SOP 03-3 allows purchasers to aggregate credit-impaired loans
acquired in the same fiscal quarter into one or more pools, provided that the loans have common
risk characteristics. A pool is then accounted for as a single asset with a single composite
interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. With respect to the Wachovia acquisition,
we aggregated all of the consumer loans and wholesale loans with balances of $3 million or less
into pools with common risk characteristics. We accounted for wholesale loans with balances in
excess of $3 million individually.

To estimate the possible impact on the accounting for the SOP 03-3 loans as of December 31,
2008, we assumed the following scenarios of a reasonable possible improvement or deterioration in
loan credit quality.

Assumptions for deterioration in loan credit quality for SOP 03-3 loans were:

for Pick-a-Pay loans, a 10% increase in expected life of loan loss rates from December 31,
2008, purchase accounting estimates, based on increased loss severity due to prolonged
residential real estate value deterioration, continued increase in unemployment levels and
higher bankruptcy levels; and 

for commercial real estate loans, a 10% increase in expected life of loan loss rates from
December 31, 2008, purchase accounting estimates due to continued deterioration in the
homebuilder and income property sectors. 

Assumptions for improvement in loan credit quality for SOP 03-3 were:

for Pick-a-Pay loans, a 10% decrease in expected life of loan loss rates from December 31,
2008, purchase accounting estimates, based on decreased loss severity due to residential real
estate value stabilization; and 

for commercial real estate loans, a 10% decrease in expected life of loan loss rates from
December 31, 2008, purchase accounting estimates due to an improvement in the home-builder and
income property sectors. 

Had the expected life of loan loss rates we used to determine the nonaccretable difference at
December 31, 2008, for these two portfolios reflected the 10% increase or decrease in life of loan
loss rates as described above, the nonaccretable difference would have changed by approximately
$2.4 billion for Pick-a-Pay loans and $680 million for commercial real estate.

In accordance with SOP 03-3, loans that were classified as nonperforming loans by Wachovia are
no longer classified as nonperforming because, at acquisition, we believe we will fully collect the
new carrying value of these loans. It is important to note that judgment is required in
reclassifying loans subject to SOP 03-3 to performing status, and is dependent on having a
reasonable expectation about the timing and amount of cash flows expected to be collected, even if
the loan is contractually past due.

Valuation of Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights 

We recognize as assets the rights to service mortgage loans for others, or mortgage servicing
rights (MSRs), whether we purchase the servicing rights, or the servicing rights result from the
sale or securitization of loans we originate (asset transfers). We also acquire MSRs under
co-issuer agreements that provide for us to service loans that are originated and securitized by
third-party correspondents. We initially measure and carry our MSRs related to residential mortgage
loans (residential MSRs) using the fair value measurement method, under which purchased MSRs and
MSRs from asset transfers are capitalized and carried at fair value.

At the end of each quarter, we determine the fair value of MSRs using a valuation model that
calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income. The model incorporates
assumptions that market participants use in estimating future net servicing income, including
estimates of prepayment speeds (including housing price volatility), discount rate, default rates,
cost to service (including delinquency and foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings, contractual
servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees. The valuation of MSRs is discussed further in
this section and in Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies), Note 8 (Securitizations
and Variable Interest Entities), Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) and Note 17 (Fair Values of
Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements.

To reduce the sensitivity of earnings to interest rate and market value fluctuations, we may
use securities available for sale and free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) to hedge the risk
of changes in the fair value of MSRs, with the resulting gains or losses reflected in income.
Changes in the fair value of the MSRs from changing mortgage interest rates are generally offset by
gains or losses in the fair value of the derivatives depending on the amount of MSRs we hedge and
the particular instruments used to hedge the MSRs. We may choose not to fully hedge MSRs, partly
because origination volume tends to act as a  natural hedge.  For example, as interest rates
decline, servicing values generally decrease and fees from origination volume tend to increase.
Conversely, as interest rates increase, the fair value of the MSRs generally increases, while fees
from origination volume tend to decline. See  Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  for
discussion of the timing of the effect of changes in mortgage interest rates.

43  

Net servicing income, a component of mortgage banking noninterest income, includes the changes
from period to period in fair value of both our residential MSRs and the free-standing derivatives
(economic hedges) used to hedge our residential MSRs. Changes in the fair value of residential MSRs
from period to period result from (1) changes in the valuation model inputs or assumptions
(principally reflecting changes in discount rates and prepayment speed assumptions, mostly due to
changes in interest rates) and (2) other changes, representing changes due to
collection/realization of expected cash flows.

We use a dynamic and sophisticated model to estimate the value of our MSRs. The model is
validated by an independent internal model validation group operating in accordance with Company
policies. Senior management reviews all significant assumptions quarterly. Mortgage loan prepayment
speed a key assumption in the model is the annual rate at which borrowers are forecasted to repay
their mortgage loan principal. The discount rate used to determine the present value of estimated
future net servicing income another key assumption in the model is the required rate of return
investors in the market would expect for an asset with similar risk. To determine the discount
rate, we consider the risk premium for uncertainties from servicing operations (e.g., possible
changes in future servicing costs, ancillary income and earnings on escrow accounts). Both
assumptions can, and generally will, change quarterly as market conditions and interest rates
change. For example, an increase in either the prepayment speed or discount rate assumption results
in a decrease in the fair value of the MSRs, while a decrease in either assumption would result in
an increase in the fair value of the MSRs. In recent years, there have been significant
market-driven fluctuations in loan prepayment speeds and the discount rate. These fluctuations can
be rapid and may be significant in the future. Therefore, estimating prepayment speeds within a
range that market participants
would use in determining the fair value of MSRs requires significant management judgment.

These key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of the fair value of MSRs to an immediate
adverse change in those assumptions are shown in Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest
Entities) to Financial Statements.

Fair Valuation of Financial Instruments 

We use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain financial
instruments and to determine fair value disclosures. Trading assets, securities available for sale,
derivatives, prime residential mortgages held for sale (MHFS), certain commercial loans held for
sale (LHFS), principal investments and securities sold but not yet purchased (short sale
liabilities) are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Additionally, from time to time, we
may be required to record at fair value other assets on a nonrecurring basis, such as nonprime
residential and commercial MHFS, certain LHFS, loans held for investment and certain other assets.
These nonrecurring fair value adjustments typically involve application of lower-of-cost-or-market
accounting or write-downs of

individual assets. Further, we include in Notes to Financial
Statements information about the extent to which fair value is used to measure assets and
liabilities, the valuation methodologies used and its impact to earnings. Additionally, for
financial instruments not recorded at fair value we disclose the estimate of their fair value.

FAS 157,  Fair Value Measurements  (FAS 157), defines fair value as the price that would be
received to sell the financial asset or paid to transfer the financial liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date.

FAS 157 establishes a three-level hierarchy for disclosure of assets and liabilities recorded
at fair value. The classification of assets and liabilities within the hierarchy is based on
whether the inputs to the valuation methodology used for measurement are observable or
unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market-derived or market-based information obtained from
independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our estimates about market data.

Level 1   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for identical instruments traded in active
markets. Level 1 instruments include securities traded on active exchange markets, such as the
New York Stock Exchange, as well as U.S. Treasury and other U.S. government securities that
are traded by dealers or brokers in active over-the-counter markets. 

Level 2   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets,
quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and
model-based valuation techniques, such as matrix pricing, for which all significant
assumptions are observable in the market. Level 2 instruments include securities traded in
less active dealer or broker markets and MHFS that are valued based on prices for other
mortgage whole loans with similar characteristics. 

Level 3   Valuation is generated from model-based techniques that use significant
assumptions not observable in the market. These unobservable assumptions reflect our own
estimates of assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
Valuation techniques include use of option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and
similar techniques. 

In accordance with FAS 157, it is our policy to maximize the use of observable inputs and
minimize the use of unobservable inputs when developing fair value measurements. When available, we
use quoted market prices to measure fair value. If market prices are not available, fair value
measurement is based upon models that use primarily market-based or independently-sourced market
parameters, including interest rate yield curves, prepayment speeds, option volatilities and
currency rates. Most of our financial instruments use either of the foregoing methodologies,
collectively Level 1 and Level 2 measurements, to determine fair value adjustments recorded to our
financial statements. However, in certain cases, when market observable inputs for model-based
valuation techniques may not be readily available, we are required to make judgments about
assumptions market participants would use in estimating the fair value of the financial instrument.

44  

The degree of management judgment involved in
determining the fair value of a financial instrument
is dependent upon the availability of quoted market
prices or observable market parameters. For financial
instruments that trade actively and have quoted market
prices or observable market parameters, there is
minimal subjectivity involved in measuring fair value.
When observable market prices and parameters are not
fully available, management judgment is necessary to
estimate fair value. In addition, changes in the
market conditions may reduce the availability of
quoted prices or observable data. For example, reduced
liquidity in the capital markets or changes in
secondary market activities could result in observable
market inputs becoming unavailable. When significant
adjustments are required to available observable
inputs, it may be appropriate to utilize an estimate
based primarily on unobservable inputs. When an active
market for a security does not exist, the use of
management estimates that incorporate current market
participant expectations of future cash flows, and
include appropriate risk premiums, is acceptable.

Approximately 19% of total assets ($247.5
billion) at December 31, 2008, and 22% of total assets
($123.8 billion) at December 31, 2007, consisted of
financial instruments recorded at fair value on a
recurring basis. Assets for which fair values were
measured using significant Level 3 inputs represented
approximately 19% of these financial instruments (4%
of total assets) at December 31, 2008, and
approximately 18% (4% of total assets) at December 31,
2007. The fair value of the remaining assets were
measured using valuation methodologies involving
market-based or market-derived information,
collectively Level 1 and 2 measurements.

Our financial
assets valued using Level 3 measurements consisted of
certain asset-backed securities, including those
collateralized by auto leases and cash reserves,
private collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs),
collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), collateralized
loan obligations (CLOs), auction-rate securities,
certain derivative contracts such as credit default
swaps related to CMO, CDO and CLO exposures and
certain MHFS and MSRs. While MSR valuations generally
require use of significant unobservable inputs and
therefore are classified as Level 3, significant
judgment may be required to determine whether certain
other assets measured at fair value are included in
Level 2 or Level 3. For example, we closely monitor
market conditions involving assets that have become
less actively traded, such as MHFS, private CMOs, and
certain other debt securities, including CDOs and
CLOs. See Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable
Interest Entities) to Financial Statements for a
detailed discussion of the key assumptions used to
determine the fair value of our MSRs and the related
sensitivity analysis. If fair value measurement is
based upon recent observable market activity of such
assets or comparable assets (other than forced or
distressed transactions) that occur in sufficient
volume and do not require significant adjustment using
unobservable inputs, those assets are classified as
Level 2; if not, they are classified as Level 3.
Making this assessment requires significant judgment.
In 2008, $4.3 billion of fair

value option MHFS and
$1.9 billion of debt securities available for sale
were transferred from Level 2 to Level 3 because
significant inputs to the valuation became unobservable, largely due to reduced levels of market liquidity.

We use prices from independent pricing services
and to a lesser extent, indicative (non-binding)
quotes from independent brokers, to measure fair value
of our investment securities. See Note 17 (Fair Values
of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements for
the amount and fair value hierarchy classification of
those securities measured at fair value using an
independent pricing service and those measured at fair
value using broker quotes. We utilize multiple
independent pricing services and brokers to obtain
fair values, however, we generally obtain one
price/quote for each individual security. For
securities priced by independent pricing services, we
determine the most appropriate and relevant pricing
service for each security class and have that vendor
provide the price for each security in the class. We
record the unadjusted value provided by the
independent pricing service/broker in our financial
statements, subject to our internal price verification
procedures. We validate prices received from pricing
services or brokers using a variety of methods,
including, but not limited to, comparison to secondary
pricing services, corroboration of pricing by
reference to other independent market data such as
secondary broker quotes and relevant benchmark
indices, and review of pricing by Company personnel
familiar with market liquidity and other
market-related conditions. Based upon our internal
price verification procedures and review of fair value
methodology documentation provided by independent
pricing services, we have concluded that the fair
values for our investment securities at year end were
consistent with the guidance in FAS 157.

Approximately 2% of total liabilities ($18.8
billion) at December 31, 2008, and 0.5% ($2.6 billion)
at December 31, 2007, consisted of financial
instruments recorded at fair value on a recurring
basis. Liabilities valued using Level 3 measurements
were $638 million and $280 million at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively.

See Note 17 (Fair Values
of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements for
a complete discussion on our use of fair valuation of
financial instruments, our related measurement
techniques and its impact to our financial statements.

Pension Accounting  

We account for our defined benefit pension plans using
an actuarial model required by FAS 87,  Employers 
Accounting for Pensions,  as amended by FAS 158,
 Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB
Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R). 
FAS 158 was issued on September 29, 2006, and became
effective for us on December 31, 2006. FAS 158
requires us to recognize the funded status of our
pension and postretirement benefit plans in our
balance sheet. Additionally, FAS 158 required us to
use a year-end measurement date beginning in 2008.
The adoption of FAS 158 did not change the amount of
net periodic benefit expense recognized in our income
statement.

45  

We use four key variables to calculate our
annual pension cost: size and characteristics of the
employee population, actuarial assumptions, expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets, and discount
rate. We describe
below the effect of each of these variables on
our pension expense.

SIZE AND CHARACTERISTICS OF THE EMPLOYEE POPULATION 
Pension expense is directly related to the number of
employees covered by the plans, and other factors
including salary, age and years of employment.

ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS  To estimate the projected
benefit obligation, actuarial assumptions are
required about factors such as the rates of
mortality, turnover, retirement, disability and
compensation increases for our participant
population. These demographic assumptions are
reviewed periodically. In general, the range of
assumptions is narrow.

EXPECTED LONG-TERM RATE OF RETURN ON PLAN ASSETS   We
determine the expected return on plan assets each year
based on the composition of assets and the expected
long-term rate of return on that portfolio. The
expected long-term rate of return assumption is a
long-term assumption and is not anticipated to change
significantly from year to year.

To determine if the
expected rate of return is reasonable, we consider
such factors as (1) long-term historical return
experience for major asset class categories (for
example, large cap and small cap domestic equities,
international equities and domestic fixed income), and
(2) forward-looking return expectations for these
major asset classes. Our expected rate of return for
2009 is 8.75%, the same rate used for 2008 and 2007.
Differences in each year, if any, between expected and
actual returns are included in our net actuarial gain
or loss amount, which is recognized in other
comprehensive income. We generally amortize any net
actuarial gain or loss in excess of a 5% corridor (as
defined in FAS 87) in net periodic pension expense
calculations over the next five years. Due to the
dramatic downturn in market conditions during 2008,
our actual rate of return for 2008 was negative, and
was therefore significantly less than our long-term
expected rate of return of 8.75%. This difference will
increase our 2009 pension expense by approximately
$600 million due to higher actuarial loss amortization
combined with a lower rate of return component of
pension expense, as compared to our 2008 pension
expense. Although our plan assets experienced a
negative return in 2008, our plan assets have earned
an average annualized rate of return of about 9% over
the last 25 years. Our average remaining service
period is approximately 10 years. See Note 20
(Employee Benefits and Other Expenses) to Financial
Statements for information on funding, changes in the
pension benefit obligation, and plan assets (including
the investment categories, asset allocation and the
fair value).

If we were to assume a 1% increase/decrease in
the expected long-term rate of return, holding the
discount rate and other actuarial assumptions
constant, 2009 pension expense would decrease/increase
by approximately $74 million.

DISCOUNT RATE   We use a discount rate to determine the
present value of our future benefit obligations. The
discount rate reflects the current rates available on
long-term high-quality fixed-income debt instruments,
and is reset annually on the measurement date. To
determine the discount rate, we review, with our
independent actuary, spot interest rate yield curves
based upon yields from a broad population of
high-quality bonds, adjusted to match the timing and
amounts of the Cash Balance Plan s expected benefit
payments. We used a discount rate of 6.75% in 2008 and
6.25% in 2007.

If we were to assume a 1% increase in the
discount rate, and keep the expected long-term rate
of return and other actuarial assumptions constant,
pension expense would decrease by approximately $72
million. If we were to assume a 1% decrease in the
discount rate, and keep other assumptions constant,
2009 pension expense would increase by approximately
$70 million. The decrease in pension expense due to a
1% increase in discount rate differs slightly from
the increase in pension expense due to a 1% decrease
in discount rate due to the impact of the 5%
gain/loss corridor.

Income Taxes  

We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S.,
its states and municipalities and those of the
foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. We account
for income taxes in accordance with FAS 109,
 Accounting for Income Taxes,  as interpreted by FIN
48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. 
Our income tax expense consists of two components:
current and deferred. Current income tax expense
approximates taxes to be paid or refunded for the
current period and includes income tax expense related
to our uncertain tax positions. We determine deferred
income taxes using the balance sheet method. Under
this method, the net deferred tax asset or liability
is based on the tax effects of the differences between
the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and
recognized enacted changes in tax rates and laws in
the period in which they occur. Deferred income tax
expense results from changes in deferred tax assets
and liabilities between periods. Deferred tax assets
are recognized subject to management s judgment that
realization is  more likely than not.  Uncertain tax
positions that meet the more likely than not
recognition threshold are measured to determine the
amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain tax
position is measured at the largest amount of benefit
that management believes is greater than 50% likely of
being realized upon settlement. Foreign taxes paid are
generally applied as credits to reduce federal income
taxes payable. We account for interest and penalties
as a component of income tax expense.

The income tax laws of the jurisdictions in
which we operate are complex and subject to different
interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant
government taxing authorities. In establishing a
provision for income tax expense, we must make
judgments and interpretations about the application
of these inherently complex tax laws. We must also
make estimates about when in the future certain items
will affect taxable income in the various tax
jurisdictions by the govern-

46  

ment taxing authorities,
both domestic and foreign. Our interpretations may be
subjected to review during examination by taxing
authorities and disputes may arise over the
respective tax positions. We attempt to resolve these
disputes during the tax examination and audit process
and ultimately through the court systems when
applicable.

We monitor relevant tax authorities and revise
our estimate of accrued income taxes due to changes
in income tax laws and their interpretation by the
courts and regulatory

authorities on a quarterly
basis. Revisions of our estimate of accrued income
taxes also may result from our own income tax
planning and from the resolution of income tax
controversies. Such revisions in our estimates may
be material to our operating results for any given
quarter.

See Note 21 (Income Taxes) to Financial
Statements for a further description of our provision
for income taxes and related income tax assets and
liabilities.

Earnings Performance 

Net Interest Income  

Net interest income is the interest earned on debt
securities, loans (including yield-related loan fees)
and other interest-earning assets minus the interest
paid for deposits and long-term and short-term debt.
The net interest margin is the average yield on
earning assets minus the average interest rate paid
for deposits and our other sources of funding. Net
interest income and the net interest margin are
presented on a taxable-equivalent basis to
consistently reflect income from taxable and
tax-exempt loans and securities based on a 35% federal
statutory tax rate.

Net interest income on a
taxable-equivalent basis was $25.4 billion in 2008, up
20% from $21.1 billion in 2007. Our net interest
margin increased to 4.83% for 2008 from 4.74% for
2007. Both the increase in net interest income and the
increase in the net interest margin were largely
driven by disciplined deposit pricing and lower market
funding costs.

Average earning assets increased $77.6 billion to
$523.5 billion in 2008 from $445.9 billion in 2007.
Average loans increased to $398.5 billion in 2008 from
$344.8 billion in 2007. Average mortgages held for
sale decreased to $25.7 billion in 2008 from $33.1
billion in 2007. Average debt securities available for
sale increased to $86.3 billion in 2008 from $57.0
billion in 2007.

The purchase accounting adjustments
that we recorded on Wachovia s interest-earning assets
and interest-bearing liabilities to reflect market
rates of interest for each instrument or pool of
instruments will affect net interest income beginning
in first quarter 2009. The more significant of these
adjustments include an $8.2 billion net increase to
loans where amortization will decrease net interest
income, a $4.4 billion net increase to deposits,
specifically certificates of deposit, and a $190
million increase to long-term debt, where amortization
for both will increase net interest income.

Core deposits are an important contributor to
growth in net interest income and the net interest
margin, and are a low-cost source of funding. Core
deposits are noninterest-bearing deposits,
interest-bearing checking, savings certificates,
market rate and other savings, and certain foreign
deposits (Eurodollar sweep balances). We have one of
the largest bases of core deposits among large U.S.
banks. Average core deposits grew 7% to $325.2 billion
in 2008 from $303.1 billion in 2007 and funded 82% and
88% of average total loans in 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Total average retail core deposits,
which exclude Wholesale Banking core deposits and
retail mortgage escrow deposits, for 2008 grew $13.1
billion (6%) from 2007. Average mortgage escrow
deposits decreased to $21.0 billion in 2008 from $21.5
billion in 2007. Average savings certificates of
deposit decreased to $39.5 billion in 2008
from $40.5 billion in 2007 and average
noninterest-bearing checking accounts and other core
deposit categories (interest-bearing checking and
market rate and other savings) increased to $260.2
billion in 2008 from $241.9 billion in 2007. Total
average interest-bearing deposits increased to $266.1
billion in 2008 from $239.2 billion in 2007,
predominantly due to growth in market rate and other
savings, along with growth in foreign deposits, offset
by a decline in other time deposits.

Table 3 presents the individual components of net
interest income and the net interest margin.

47  

Table 3:    Average Balances, Yields and Rates Paid (Taxable-Equivalent Basis)    (1)(2)(3)     

48  

(4) 
       
     Yields are based on amortized cost balances computed on a settlement date basis. 

(5) 
       
     Includes certain preferred securities. 

(6) 
       
     Nonaccrual loans and related income are included in their respective loan categories. 

(7) 
       
     Includes taxable-equivalent adjustments primarily related to tax-exempt income on certain loans
and securities. The federal statutory tax rate was 35% for all years presented. 

49  

Table 4 allocates the changes in net interest
income on a taxable-equivalent basis to changes in
either average balances or average rates for both
interest-earning assets and interest-bearing
liabilities. Because of the numerous simultaneous
volume and rate changes during any period, it is not

possible to precisely allocate such changes between
volume and rate. For this table, changes that are not
solely due to either volume or rate are allocated to
these categories in proportion to the percentage
changes in average volume and average rate.

Table 4:  Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income 

Noninterest Income  

We earn trust, investment and IRA fees from managing
and administering assets, including mutual funds,
corporate trust, personal trust, employee benefit
trust and agency assets. At December 31, 2008, these
assets totaled $1.62 trillion, including $510 billion
from the Wachovia acquisition, up 45% from $1.12
trillion at December 31, 2007. Trust, investment and
IRA fees are primarily based on a tiered scale
relative to the market value of the assets under
management or administration. The fees declined 6% in
2008 from a year ago, while the S P 500 declined 35%
over the same period.

We also receive commissions and other fees for
providing services to full-service and discount
brokerage customers. Generally, these fees include
transactional commissions,

which are based on the
number of transactions executed at the customer s
direction, or asset-based fees, which are based on
the market value of the customer s assets. At
December 31, 2008, brokerage balances totaled $970
billion, including $859 billion from the Wachovia
acquisition, up from $131 billion at December 31,
2007.

Card fees increased 9% to $2,336 million in
2008 from $2,136 million in 2007, due to continued
growth in new accounts and higher credit and debit
card transaction volume. Purchase volume on these
cards increased 8% from a year ago and average card
balances were up 25%.

Mortgage banking noninterest income was $2,525
million in 2008, compared with $3,133 million in 2007.
In addition to servicing fees, net servicing income
includes both changes in the fair value of MSRs during
the period as well as changes in

50  

Table 5:  Noninterest Income 

NM   Not meaningful

the value of derivatives (economic hedges) used to
hedge the MSRs. Net servicing income for 2008 included
a $242 million net MSRs valuation loss that was
recorded to earnings ($3.34 billion fair value loss
offsetting by a $3.10
billion economic hedging gain) and for 2007 included a
$583 million net MSRs valuation gain ($571 million
fair value loss offsetting a $1.15 billion economic
hedging gain). Our portfolio of loans serviced for
others was $1.86 trillion, including $379 billion
acquired from Wachovia, at December 31, 2008, up 30%
from $1.43 trillion at December 31, 2007. At December
31, 2008, the ratio of MSRs to related loans serviced
for others was 0.87%.

Net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales
activities were $1,183 million in 2008, down from
$1,289 million in 2007. Residential real estate
originations totaled $230 billion in 2008, compared
with $272 billion in 2007. For additional detail, see
 Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management  Mortgage
Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk,  and Note 1
(Summary of Significant Accounting Policies), Note 9
(Mortgage Banking Activities) and Note 17 (Fair Values
of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements.

Mortgage loans are repurchased based on standard
representations and warranties and early payment
default clauses in mortgage sale contracts. The $234
million increase in the repurchase reserve in 2008
included $208 million related to standard
representations and warranties as the housing market
deteriorated and loss severities on repurchases
increased. An additional $26 million related to an
increase in projected early payment defaults, due to
the overall deterioration in the market. To the extent
the market does not recover, Home

Mortgage could continue to have increased loss
severity on repurchases, causing future increases in
the repurchase reserve. In addition, there was $29
million in warehouse valuation adjustments in 2008 due
to increasing losses associated with repurchase risk.
The write-down of the mortgage warehouse/pipeline in
2008 was $584 million, including losses of $320
million due to spread widening primarily on the prime
mortgage warehouse caused by changes in liquidity. The
remaining $264 million of losses were primarily losses
on unsalable loans. Due to the deterioration in the
overall credit market and related secondary market
liquidity challenges, these losses have been
significant. Similar losses on unsalable loans could
be possible in the future if the housing market does
not recover.

The 1-4 family first mortgage unclosed pipeline
was $71 billion (including $5 billion from Wachovia)
at December 31, 2008, and $43 billion at December 31,
2007. 

Operating lease income decreased 39% from a year
ago, due to continued softening in the auto market,
reflecting tightened credit standards. In third
quarter 2008, we stopped originating new indirect auto
leases, but will continue to service existing lease
contracts.

Insurance revenue was up 20% from 2007, due to
customer growth, higher crop insurance revenue and
the fourth quarter 2007 acquisition of ABD
Insurance.

Income from trading activities was $275 million
in 2008 and $544 million in 2007. Income from trading
activities and  all other  income collectively
included a $106 million charge in 2008 related to
unsecured counterparty exposure on derivative
contracts with Lehman Brothers. Net investment gains
(debt and equity) totaled $300 million for 2008 and
included other-than-temporary impairment charges of
$646 million for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and
Lehman Brothers, an additional $1,364 million of
other-than-temporary write-downs and $1,710 million
of net realized investment gains. Net gains on debt
securities available for sale were $1,037 million for
2008 and $209 million for 2007. Net gains (losses)
from equity investments were $(737) million in 2008,
compared with $734 million in 2007. For additional
detail, see  Balance Sheet Analysis   Securities
Available for Sale  in this Report.

Noninterest Expense  

We continued to build our business with investments in
additional team members, largely sales and service
professionals, and new banking stores in 2008.
Noninterest expense in 2008 decreased 1% from the
prior year. In 2008, we opened 58 regional banking
stores and converted 32 stores acquired from Greater
Bay Bancorp, Farmers State Bank and United
Bancorporation of Wyoming, Inc. to our network.
Noninterest expense for 2008 included $124 million of
merger integration and severance costs.

Operating lease expense decreased 31% to $389
million in 2008 from $561 million in 2007, as we
stopped originating new indirect auto leases in
third quarter 2008.

Insurance expense increased to $725 million in
2008 from $416 million in 2007 due to the fourth
quarter 2007 acquisition of ABD Insurance, additional
insurance reserves at our captive mortgage
reinsurance operation as well as higher commissions
on increased sales volume.

51  

Table 6:  Noninterest Expense 

Operating losses in 2008 included a $151 million
reversal of Visa litigation expenses related to the
Visa initial public offering. Operating losses for
2007 included $203 million for 2007 of litigation
expenses associated with indemnification obligations
arising from our ownership interest in Visa.

Income Tax Expense  

Our effective tax rate for 2008 was 18.5%, compared
with 30.7% for 2007. The decrease in the effective
tax
rate was primarily due to a lower level of pre-tax
income and higher amounts of tax credits and
tax-exempt income.

Operating Segment Results  

We have three lines of business for our 2008
management reporting results: Community Banking,
Wholesale Banking and Wells Fargo Financial. For a
more complete description of our operating segments,
including additional financial information and the
underlying management accounting process, see Note 24
(Operating Segments) to Financial Statements. To
reflect the realignment of our corporate trust
business from Community Banking into Wholesale
Banking in first quarter 2008, results for prior
periods have been revised.

Community Banking s  net income decreased 43% to $2.93
billion in 2008 from $5.11 billion in 2007.
Double-digit revenue growth was driven by strong
balance sheet growth, combined with disciplined
expense management, and was offset by higher credit
costs, including a $4.7 billion (pre tax) credit
reserve build. Revenue increased 11% to $27.76 billion
from $24.93 billion in 2007. Net interest income
increased 24% to $16.19 billion in 2008 from $13.10
billion in 2007. Net interest

margin increased 36
basis points to 5.02% due to earning assets growth of
$41.4 billion, or 15%, offsetting lower investment
yields. The growth in earning assets was primarily
driven by loan and investment growth. Average loans
were up 13% to $218.8 billion in 2008 from $194.0
billion in 2007. Average core deposits were up 5% to
$254.6 billion in 2008 from $242.2 billion a year ago.
Noninterest income decreased 2% to $11.57 billion in
2008 from $11.83 billion in 2007, primarily due to
lower mortgage banking income and trust and investment
fees. The provision for credit losses for 2008
increased to $9.56 billion from $3.19 billion in 2007.
Noninterest expense decreased 2% to $14.35 billion in
2008 from $14.70 billion in 2007.

Wholesale Banking s  net income decreased 48% to $1.29
billion in 2008 from $2.47 billion in 2007, largely
due to the $1.12 billion (pre tax) provision for
credit losses, which included a $586 million (pre tax)
credit reserve build. Revenue decreased 5% to $8.54
billion from $8.95 billion in 2007. Net interest
income increased 23% to $4.47 billion for 2008 from
$3.65 billion for 2007 driven by strong loan and
deposit growth. Average loans increased 31% to $112.1
billion in 2008 from $85.6 billion in 2007, with
double-digit increases across nearly all wholesale
lending businesses. Average core deposits grew 16% to
$70.6 billion from a year ago, primarily from large
corporate, middle market and correspondent banking
customers. The increase in provision for credit losses
to $1.12 billion in 2008 from $69 million in 2007 was
due to higher net charge-offs and additional provision
taken to build reserves for the wholesale portfolio.
Noninterest income decreased 23% to $4.07 billion in
2008, primarily due to impairment charges and other
losses in our capital markets areas, as well as lower
commercial real estate brokerage and trust and
investment fees. Noninterest expense increased 9% to
$5.55 billion in 2008 from $5.08 billion in 2007, due
to the acquisition of ABD Insurance as well as higher
agent commissions in the crop insurance business
stemming from higher commodity prices and the
liability recorded for a
capital support agreement for a structured investment
vehicle.

Wells Fargo Financial  reported a net loss of $764
million in 2008 compared with net income of $481
million in 2007, reflecting higher credit costs,
including a $1.7 billion credit reserve build due to
continued softening in the real estate, auto and
credit card markets. Revenue was up 2% to $5.59
billion in 2008 from $5.51 billion in 2007. Net
interest income increased 6% to $4.48 billion from
$4.23 billion in 2007 due to growth in average loans,
which increased 4% to $67.6 billion in 2008 from
$65.2 billion in 2007. The provision for credit
losses increased $2.38 billion in 2008 from 2007,
primarily due to the $1.7 billion credit reserve
build, and an increase in net charge-offs in the
credit card and auto portfolios due to continued
softening in these markets. Noninterest income
decreased $171 million in 2008 from 2007. Noninterest
expense decreased 9% to $2.76 billion in 2008 from
2007, primarily due to lower expenses from the run
off of the auto lease portfolio and reduction in team
members.

52  

Balance Sheet Analysis   

Securities Available for Sale  

Our securities available for sale consist of both debt
and marketable equity securities. We hold debt
securities available for sale primarily for liquidity,
interest rate risk management and long-term yield
enhancement. Accordingly, this portfolio primarily
includes liquid, high-quality federal agency debt as
well as privately issued mortgage-backed securities.
At December 31, 2008, we held $145.4 billion of debt
securities available for sale, including $63.7 billion
acquired from Wachovia, with net unrealized losses of
$9.8 billion, compared with $70.2 billion at December
31, 2007, with net unrealized gains of $775 million.
We also held $6.1 billion of marketable equity
securities available for sale at December 31, 2008,
including $3.7 billion acquired from Wachovia, and
$2.8 billion at December 31, 2007, with net unrealized
losses of $160 million and $95 million for the same
periods, respectively. The net unrealized loss in
cumulative other comprehensive income at December 31,
2008, related entirely to the legacy Wells Fargo
portfolio. The net unrealized loss related to the
legacy Wachovia portfolio was written off in purchase
accounting.

The significant increase in net unrealized losses
on debt securities available for sale to $9.8 billion
at December 31, 2008, from net unrealized gains of
$775 million at December 31, 2007, was primarily due
to extraordinarily wide asset spreads for residential
mortgage, commercial mortgage and commercial loan
asset-backed securities resulting from an extremely
illiquid market, causing these assets to be valued at
significant discounts from their cost. We conduct
other-than-temporary impairment analysis on a
quarterly basis or more often if a potential
loss-triggering event occurs. We recognize an
other-than-temporary impairment when it is probable
that we will be unable to collect all amounts due
according to the contractual terms of the security and
the fair value of the investment security is less than
its amortized cost. The initial indication of
other-than-temporary impairment for both debt and
equity securities is a decline in the market value
below the amount recorded for an investment, and the
severity and duration of the decline. In determining
whether an impairment is other than temporary, we
consider the length of time and the extent to which
the market value has been below cost, recent events
specific to the issuer, including investment
downgrades by rating agencies and economic conditions
of its industry, and our ability and intent to hold
the investment for a period of time, including
maturity, sufficient to allow for any anticipated
recovery in the fair value of the security. For
marketable equity securities, we also consider the
issuer s financial condition, capital strength and
near-term

prospects. For debt securities and for
perpetual preferred securities, which are treated as
debt securities for the purpose of
other-than-temporary analysis, we also consider the
cause of the price decline (general level of interest
rates and industry- and issuer-specific factors), the
issuer s financial condition, near-term prospects and
current ability to make future payments in a timely
manner, the issuer s ability to service debt, any
change in agencies  ratings at evaluation date from
acquisition date and any likely
imminent action, and for asset-backed securities,
the credit performance of the underlying collateral,
including delinquency rates, cumulative losses to
date, and the remaining credit enhancement compared to
expected credit losses of the security.

We have approximately $7 billion of investments
in securities, primarily municipal bonds, that are
guaranteed against loss by bond insurers. These
securities are almost exclusively investment grade and
were generally underwritten in accordance with our own
investment standards prior to the determination to
purchase, without relying on the bond insurer s
guarantee in making the investment decision. These
securities will continue to be monitored as part of
our on-going impairment analysis of our securities
available for sale, but are expected to perform, even
if the rating agencies reduce the credit rating of the
bond insurers.

The weighted-average expected maturity of debt
securities available for sale was 5.3 years at
December 31, 2008. Since 69% of this portfolio is
mortgage-backed securities, the expected remaining
maturity may differ from contractual maturity because
borrowers generally have the right to prepay
obligations before the underlying mortgages mature.
The estimated effect of a 200 basis point increase or
decrease in interest rates on the fair value and the
expected remaining maturity of the mortgage-backed
securities available for sale is shown in Table 7.

Table 7:  Mortgage-Backed Securities   

See Note 5 (Securities Available for Sale) to
Financial Statements for securities available for
sale by security type.

53  

Loan Portfolio  

A discussion of average loan balances is included in
 Earnings Performance   Net Interest Income  on
page 47 and a comparative schedule of average loan
balances is included in Table 3; year-end balances
are in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit
Losses) to Financial Statements.

Total loans at December 31, 2008, were $864.8
billion, up $482.6 billion from $382.2 billion at
December 31, 2007, including $446.1 billion (net of
$30.5 billion of purchase accounting net write-downs)
acquired from Wachovia. Consumer loans were $474.9
billion at December 31, 2008, up $253.0 billion from
$221.9 billion a year ago, including $246.8 billion
(net of $21.0 billion of purchase accounting net

write-downs) acquired from Wachovia. Commercial and
commercial real estate loans of $356.1 billion at
December 31, 2008, increased $203.3 billion from a
year ago, including $171.4 billion (net of $7.9
billion of purchase accounting net write-downs)
acquired from Wachovia. Mortgages held for sale
decreased to $20.1 billion at December 31, 2008, from
$26.8 billion a year ago, including $1.4 billion
acquired from Wachovia.

A summary
of the major categories of loans outstanding
showing those subject to SOP 03-3 is presented in the
following table. For further detail on SOP 03-3 loans
see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies   Loans) and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance
for Credit Losses).

Table 8:  Loan Portfolios   

Table 9 shows contractual loan maturities and
interest rate sensitivities for selected loan
categories.

Table 9:  Maturities for Selected Loan Categories   

54  

Deposits  

Year-end deposit balances totaling $781.4 billion,
which included $426.2 billion from Wachovia
(reflecting an increase of $4.4 billion of interest
rate related purchase accounting adjustments), are
shown in Table 10. A comparative detail of average
deposit balances is included in Table 3. Average core
deposits, which did not include Wachovia deposits,
increased $22.1 billion to $325.2 billion in 2008 from
$303.1 billion in 2007. Average core deposits funded
53.8% and 58.2% of average total assets in 2008 and
2007, respectively. Total average interest-bearing
deposits increased to $266.1 billion in 2008 from
$239.2 billion in 2007, predominantly due to growth in
market rate
and other savings, along with growth in foreign
deposits, offset by a decline in other time deposits.
Total average non-interest-bearing deposits declined
to $87.8 billion in 2008 from $88.9 billion in 2007.
Savings certificates decreased on average to $39.5
billion in 2008 from $40.5 billion in 2007. 

Table 10: Deposits   

NM   Not meaningful 
(1) Reflects Eurodollar sweep balances included in core deposits. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   

In the ordinary course of business, we engage in
financial transactions that are not recorded in the
balance sheet, or may be recorded in the balance sheet
in amounts that are different from the full contract
or notional amount of the transaction. These
transactions are designed to (1) meet the financial
needs of customers, (2) manage our credit, market or
liquidity risks, (3) diversify our funding sources,
and/or (4) optimize capital. These are described below
as off-balance sheet transactions with unconsolidated
entities, and guarantees and certain contingent
arrangements.

Off-Balance Sheet Transactions with Unconsolidated Entities    
In the normal course of business, we enter into
various types of on- and off-balance sheet
transactions with special purpose entities (SPEs).
SPEs are corporations, trusts or partnerships that are
established for a limited purpose. The majority of
SPEs are formed in connection with securitization
transactions. In a securitization transaction, assets
from our balance sheet are transferred to an SPE,
which then issues to investors various forms of
interests in those assets and may also enter into
derivative transactions. In a securitization
transaction, we typically receive cash and/or other
interests in an SPE as proceeds for the assets we
transfer. Also, in certain transactions, we may retain
the right to service the transferred receivables and
to repurchase those receivables from the SPE if the
outstanding balance of the receivables fall to a level
where the cost exceeds the benefits of servicing such
receivables.

In connection with our securitization
activities, we have various forms of ongoing
involvement with SPEs, which may include:

underwriting securities issued by SPEs and
subsequently making markets in those securities; 

providing liquidity facilities to support short-term
obligations of SPEs issued to third party investors; 

providing credit enhancement to securities issued by
SPEs or market value guarantees of assets held by SPEs
through the use of letters of credit, financial
guarantees,
credit default swaps and total return swaps; 

entering into other derivative contracts with SPEs; 

holding senior or subordinated interests in SPEs; 

acting as servicer or investment manager for SPEs;
and 

providing administrative or trustee services to
SPEs. 

The SPEs we use are primarily either qualifying
SPEs (QSPEs) or variable interest entities (VIEs). A
QSPE represents a specific type of SPE. A QSPE is a
passive entity that has significant limitations on the
types of assets and derivative instruments it may own
and the extent of activities and decision making in
which it may engage. For example, a QSPE s activities
are generally limited to purchasing assets, passing
along the cash flows of those assets to its investors,
servicing its assets and, in certain transactions,
issuing liabilities. Among other restrictions on a
QSPE s activities, a QSPE may not actively manage its
assets through discretionary sales or modifications. A
QSPE is exempt from consolidation.

A VIE is an entity that has either a total equity
investment that is insufficient to permit the entity
to finance its activities without additional
subordinated financial support or whose equity
investors lack the characteristics of a controlling
financial interest. A VIE is consolidated by its
primary beneficiary, which is the entity that, through
its variable interests, absorbs the majority of a
VIE s variability. A variable interest is a
contractual, ownership or other interest that changes
with changes in the fair value of the VIE s net
assets.

55  

Our significant continuing involvement with
QSPEs and unconsolidated VIEs as of December 31,
2008 and 2007, is presented below.

Table 11:   
       
      Qualifying Special Purpose Entities and
Unconsolidated Variable Interest Entities  

(1) 
       
     Asset-backed commercial paper 

We have excluded from the table SPEs and
unconsolidated VIEs where our only involvement is in
the form of investments in trading securities,
investments in securities or loans underwritten by
third parties, and administrative or trustee services.
We have also excluded investments accounted for in
accordance with the AICPA Investment Company Audit
Guide, investments accounted for under the cost method
and investments accounted for under the equity method.

For more information on securitizations,
including sales proceeds and cash flows from
securitizations, see Note 8 (Securitizations and
Variable Interest Entities) to Financial Statements.

We also have significant involvement with voting
interest SPEs. Wells Fargo Home Mortgage (Home
Mortgage), in the ordinary course of business,
originates a portion of its mortgage loans through
unconsolidated joint ventures in which we own an
interest of 50% or less. Loans made by these joint
ventures are funded by Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. through
an established line of credit and are subject to
specified underwriting criteria. At December 31, 2008,
the total assets of these mortgage origination joint
ventures were approximately $46 million. We provide
liquidity to these joint ventures in the form of
outstanding lines of credit and, at December 31, 2008,
these liquidity commitments totaled
$135 million.       We also hold interests in other
unconsolidated joint ventures formed with unrelated
third parties to provide efficiencies from economies
of scale. A third party manages our real estate
lending services joint ventures and provides customers
with title, escrow, appraisal and other real estate
related services. Our fraud prevention services
partnership facilitates the exchange of information
between financial services organizations to detect and
prevent fraud. At December 31, 2008, total assets of
our real estate lending joint ventures and fraud
prevention services partnership were approximately
$132 million.

Guarantees and Certain Contingent Arrangements  

Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us
to make payments to a guaranteed party based on an
event or a change in an underlying asset, liability,
rate or index. Guarantees are generally in the form of
securities lending indemnifications, standby letters
of credit, liquidity agreements, recourse obligations,
residual value guarantees, written put options and
contingent consideration. The following table presents
the carrying amount, maximum risk of loss of our
guarantees and, for December 31, 2008, the amount with
a higher payment risk.

Table 12:    Guarantees and Certain Contingent Arrangements 

For more information on guarantees and certain contingent arrangements, see Note 15
(Guarantees and Legal Actions) to Financial Statements.

56   

Contractual Obligations  

In addition to the contractual commitments and
arrangements previously described, which, depending on
the nature of the obligation, may or may not require
use of our resources, we enter into other contractual
obligations in the ordinary course of business,
including debt issuances for the funding of operations
and leases for premises and equipment.

Table 13  summarizes these contractual
obligations at December 31, 2008, except obligations
for short-term borrowing arrangements and pension and
postretirement benefit plans. More information on
those obligations is in Note 13 (Short-Term
Borrowings) and Note 20 (Employee Benefits and Other
Expenses) to Financial Statements.

Table 13:    Contractual Obligations 

(1) 
       
     Includes interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing checking, and
market rate and other savings accounts. 

(2) 
       
     Includes obligations under
capital leases of $103 million. 

(3) 
       
     Represents agreements to purchase goods or services. 

We are subject to the income tax laws of the
U.S., its states and municipalities, and those of the
foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. We have
various unrecognized tax obligations related to these
operations which may require future cash tax payments
to various taxing authorities. Because of their
uncertain nature, the expected timing and amounts of
these payments generally are not reasonably estimable
or determinable. We attempt to estimate the amount
payable in the next 12 months based on the status of
our tax examinations and settlement discussions. See
Note 21 (Income Taxes) to Financial Statements for
more information.       We enter into derivatives, which
create contractual obligations, as part of our
interest rate risk management process, for our
customers or for other trading activities. See  Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management  in this Report
and Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements for
more information.

PRUDENTIAL
JOINT VENTURE  Our financial statements
include Prudential Financial Inc. s (Prudential)
minority interest in Wachovia Securities Financial
Holdings, LLC (WSFH). As a result of Wachovia s
contribution to WSFH on January 1, 2008, of the retail
securities business of A.G. Edwards, Inc. (A.G.
Edwards), which Wachovia acquired on October 1, 2007,
Prudential s percentage interest in WSFH was diluted
as of that date based on the value of the contributed
business relative to the value of WSFH. Although the
adjustment in Prudential s interest will be effective
on a retroactive basis as of the January 1, 2008,
contribution date, the valuations necessary to
calculate the precise reduction in that percentage
interest have not been finalized. Based on currently
available information, Wells Fargo estimates that
Prudential s percentage interest has been diluted from
its pre-contribution percentage interest of 38% to
approximately 23% as a result of the A.G. Edwards
contribution. This percentage interest may be adjusted
higher or lower in a subsequent quarter retroactive

to
January 1, 2008, if the final valuations differ from
Wells Fargo s current estimate.

In connection with Wachovia s contribution of
A.G. Edwards to the joint venture, Prudential elected
to exercise its lookback option, which permits
Prudential to delay until January 1, 2010, its
decision to make or not make an additional capital
contribution to the joint venture or other payments to
avoid or limit dilution of its ownership interest in
the joint venture. During this lookback period,
Prudential s share in the joint venture s earnings and
one-time costs
associated with the combination will be based on
Prudential s diluted ownership level following the
A.G. Edwards combination. At the end of the lookback
period, Prudential may elect to make an additional
capital contribution or other payment, based on the
appraised value (as defined in the joint venture
agreements) of the existing joint venture and the A.G.
Edwards business as of January 1, 2008, to avoid or
limit dilution. Alternatively, at the end of the
lookback period, Prudential may put its joint venture
interests to Wells Fargo based on the appraised value
of the joint venture, excluding the A.G. Edwards
business, as of January 1, 2008. Prudential has
announced its intention to exercise, but has not yet
formally exercised, this lookback put option.
Prudential has until September 30, 2009, to exercise
the lookback put option. If Prudential exercises the
lookback put option, the closing would occur on or
about January 1, 2010. Prudential also has a
discretionary right to put its joint venture interests
to Wells Fargo, including the A.G. Edwards business,
at any time after July 1, 2008. If Prudential
exercises this discretionary put option, the closing
would occur approximately one year from the date of
exercise and the appraised value would be determined
at that time. Wells Fargo may pay the purchase price
for either the lookback or discretionary put option in
cash, shares of Wells Fargo common stock, or a
combination thereof.

57   

Transactions with Related Parties  

FAS 57,  Related Party Disclosures,  requires disclosure
of material related party transactions, other than
compensation arrangements, expense allowances and
other similar items in

the ordinary course of
business. We had no related party transactions
required to be reported under FAS 57 for the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.

Risk Management 

Credit Risk Management Process  

Our credit risk management process provides for
decentralized management and accountability by our
lines of business. Our overall credit process includes
comprehensive credit policies, judgmental or
statistical credit underwriting, frequent and detailed
risk measurement and modeling, extensive credit
training programs and a continual loan review and
audit process. In addition, regulatory examiners
review and perform detailed tests of our credit
underwriting, loan administration and allowance
processes. We continually evaluate and modify our
credit policies to address unacceptable levels of risk
as they are identified.

Managing credit risk is a
company-wide process. We have credit policies for all
banking and nonbanking operations incurring credit
risk with customers or counterparties that provide a
prudent approach to credit risk management. We use
detailed tracking and analysis to measure credit
performance and exception rates, and we routinely
review and modify credit policies as appropriate. We
have corporate data integrity standards to ensure
accurate and complete credit performance reporting for
the consolidated company. We strive to identify
problem loans early and have dedicated, specialized
collection and work-out units.

The Chief Credit and Risk Officer provides
company-wide credit oversight. Each business unit with
direct credit risks has a senior credit officer who
has the primary responsibility for managing its own
credit risk. The Chief Credit and Risk Officer
delegates authority, limits and other requirements to
the business units. These delegations are routinely
reviewed and amended if there are significant changes
in personnel, credit performance or business
requirements. The Chief Credit and Risk Officer is a
member of the Company s Management Committee and
reports to the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief
Credit and Risk Officer provides a quarterly credit
review to the Credit Committee of the Board of
Directors and meets with them periodically.

Our business units and the office of the Chief
Credit and Risk Officer periodically review all
credit risk portfolios to ensure that the risk
identification processes are functioning properly and
that credit standards are followed. Business units
conduct quality assurance reviews to ensure that
loans meet portfolio or investor credit standards.
Our loan examiners in risk asset review and internal
audit independently review portfolios with credit
risk, monitor performance, sample credits, review and
test adherence to credit policy and recommend/require
corrective actions as necessary.

Our primary business focus on middle-market
commercial, commercial real estate, residential real
estate, auto, credit card and small consumer lending
results in portfolio diversification. We assess loan
portfolios for geographic, industry or other
concentrations and use mitigation strategies, which
may include loan sales, syndications or third party
insurance, to minimize these concentrations, as we
deem appropriate.

In our commercial loan, commercial real estate
loan and lease financing portfolios, larger or more
complex loans are individually underwritten and
judgmentally risk rated. They are periodically
monitored and prompt corrective actions are taken on
deteriorating loans. Smaller, more homogeneous
commercial small business loans are approved and
monitored using statistical techniques.

Retail loans are typically underwritten with
statistical decision-making tools and are managed
throughout their life cycle on a portfolio basis. The
Chief Credit and Risk Officer establishes corporate
standards for model development and validation to
ensure sound credit decisions and regulatory
compliance, and approves new model implementation and
periodic validation.

Residential real estate mortgages are one of our
core products. We offer a broad spectrum of first
mortgage and junior lien loans that we consider mostly
prime or near prime. These loans are almost entirely
secured by a primary residence for the purpose of
purchase money, refinance, debt consolidation or home
improvements. We now hold option adjustable rate
mortgages (option ARMs) in the Pick-a-Pay portfolio
acquired from Wachovia. This portfolio will be managed
as a liquidating portfolio. See page 61 of this Report
for additional information on the Pick-a-Pay
portfolio. It has not been our practice, nor do we
intend to originate
negative amortizing option ARMs or variable-rate
mortgage products with fixed payment amounts. We have
manageable ARM reset risk across our Wells Fargo
originated and owned mortgage loan portfolios.

We originate mortgage loans through a variety of
sources, including our retail sales force and licensed
real estate brokers. We apply consistent credit
policies, borrower documentation standards, Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991
(FDICIA) compliant appraisal requirements, and sound
underwriting, regardless of application source. We
perform quality control reviews for third party
originated loans and actively manage or terminate
sources that do not meet our credit standards. For
example, during 2007 we stopped originating first and
junior lien resi-

58   

dential mortgages where credit performance had
deteriorated beyond our expectations, specifically
high combined loan-to-value home equity loans sourced
through third party channels not behind a Wells Fargo
first mortgage.

We believe our underwriting process is well
controlled and appropriate for the needs of our
customers as well as investors who purchase the loans
or securities collateralized by the loans. We only
approve applications and make loans if we believe the
customer has the ability to repay the loan or line of
credit according to all its terms. We have
significantly tightened our bank-selected reduced
documentation requirements as a precautionary measure
and substantially reduced third party originations due
to the negative loss trends experienced in these
channels. Appraisals or automated valuation models are
used to support property values.

In the mortgage industry, it has been common for
consumers, lenders and servicers to purchase mortgage
insurance, which can enhance the credit quality of the
loan for investors and serves generally to expand the
market for home ownership.

In our servicing portfolio, certain of the loans
we service carry mortgage insurance, based largely on
the requirements of investors, who bear the ultimate
credit risk. Within our $1.8 trillion owned
residential servicing portfolio at December 31, 2008,
we service approximately $128 billion of loans that
carry approximately $31 billion of mortgage insurance
coverage purchased from a group of mortgage insurance
companies that are rated AA or higher by one or more
of the major rating agencies. Should any of these
companies experience a downgrade by one or more of the
rating agencies, investors may be exposed to a higher
level of credit risk. In this event, as servicer, we
would work with the investors to determine if it is
necessary to obtain replacement coverage with another
insurer. Our mortgage servicing portfolio consists of
over 85% prime loans and we continue to be among the
highest rated loan servicers for residential real
estate mortgage loans, based on various servicing
criteria. The foreclosure rate in our mortgage
servicing portfolio was 1.4% at year-end 2008.

Similarly, for certain loans that we held for
investment or for sale at December 31, 2008, we
obtained approximately $3 billion of mortgage
insurance coverage. In the event a mortgage insurer is
unable to meet its obligations on defaulted loans in
accordance with the insurance contract, we might be
exposed to higher credit losses if replacement
coverage on those loans cannot be obtained. However,
approximately one-fourth of the coverage related to
the debt consolidation nonprime real estate 1-4 family
mortgage loans held by Wells Fargo Financial, which
have had a low level of credit losses (0.99% loss rate
in 2008 for the entire debt consolidation portfolio).
The remaining coverage primarily related to prime real
estate 1-4 family mortgage loans, primarily high
quality ARMs for our retail and wealth management
customers, which also have had low loss rates.

Each business unit regularly completes asset
quality forecasts to quantify its intermediate-term
outlook for loan losses and recoveries, nonperforming
loans and market trends. To make sure our overall loss
estimates and the allowance for credit losses are
adequate, we conduct periodic stress tests.

This includes a portfolio loss simulation model that
simulates a range of possible losses for various
sub-portfolios assuming various trends in loan
quality, stemming from economic conditions or borrower
performance.

We routinely review and evaluate risks that are
not borrower specific but that may influence the
behavior of a particular credit, group of credits or
entire sub-portfolios. We also assess risk for
particular industries, geographic locations such as
states or Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSAs) and
specific macroeconomic trends.

Loan Portfolio Concentrations  

Loan concentrations may exist when there are borrowers
engaged in similar activities or types of loans
extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could
cause those borrowers or portfolios to be similarly
impacted by economic or other conditions.

Table 14:    Real Estate 1-4 Family Mortgage Loans by State   

REAL ESTATE 1-4 FAMILY FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS   As part
of the Wachovia acquisition, we have acquired
residential first and home equity loans that are very
similar to the Wells Fargo originated portfolio for
these loan types. Additionally, we acquired the
Pick-a-Pay option ARM first mortgage portfolio. The
nature of this product creates an potential
opportunity for negative amortization. As part of our
purchase accounting activities, the option ARM loans
with the highest probability of default were marked
down to fair value. The concentrations of real estate 1-4 family
mortgage loans by state are

59  

presented in the following
table. Our real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans to
borrowers in the state of California represented
approximately 14% of total loans at December 31, 2008,
compared with 13% of total loans at the end of 2007. Of this amount,
3% of total loans were credit-impaired loans acquired from Wachovia.
These loans are mostly within the larger metropolitan
areas in California, with no single area consisting of
more than 2% of total loans. Changes in real estate
values and underlying economic or market conditions
for these areas are monitored continuously within the
credit risk management process. Beginning in 2007, the
residential real estate markets experienced
signifi-

cant declines in property values, and several
markets in California, specifically the Central Valley
and several Southern California MSAs, experienced more
severe declines.

Some of our real estate 1-4 family mortgage
loans, including first mortgage and home equity
products, include an interest-only feature as part of
the loan terms. At December 31, 2008, these loans
were approximately 11% of total loans, compared with
20% at the end of 2007. Most of these loans are
considered to be prime or near prime. We have
manageable ARM reset risk across our Wells Fargo
originated and owned mortgage loan portfolios.

Table 15:    Home Equity Portfolios    (1)  

60  

The deterioration in specific segments of the
Home Equity portfolios required a targeted approach to
managing these assets. A liquidating portfolio,
consisting of home equity loans generated through the
wholesale channel not behind a Wells Fargo first
mortgage, and home equity loans acquired through
correspondents, was identified. While the $10.3
billion of loans in this liquidating portfolio
represented about 1% of total loans outstanding at
December 31, 2008, these loans represented some of the
highest risk in the $129.5 billion Home Equity
portfolios, with a loss rate of 6.18% compared with
1.70% for the core portfolio. The loans in the
liquidating portfolio are largely concentrated in
geographic markets that have experienced the most
abrupt and steepest declines in housing prices. The
core portfolio was $118.4 billion at December 31,
2008, of which 98% was originated through the retail
channel and approximately 15% of the outstanding
balance was in a first lien position. Table 15
includes the credit attributes of these two
portfolios.

PICK-A-PAY PORTFOLIO   Our Pick-a-Pay loan portfolio,
which we acquired in the Wachovia merger, had an outstanding balance
of $119.6 billion and a carrying
value of $95.3 billion at December 31, 2008. The
carrying value is net of $22.2 billion of purchase
accounting net write-downs to reflect SOP 03-3 loans
at fair value and a $249 million increase to reflect
all other loans at a market rate of interest.
Pick-a-Pay loans are home mortgages on which the
customer has the option each month to select from
among four payment options: (1) a minimum payment as
described below, (2) an interest-only payment, (3) a
fully amortizing 15-year payment, or (4) a fully
amortizing 30-year payment. Approximately 80% of the
Pick-a-Pay portfolio has payment options calculated
using a monthly adjustable interest rate; the rest of
the portfolio is fixed rate.

Approximately 85% of the December 31, 2008,
Pick-a-Pay loan portfolio was originated under
Wachovia s  Quick Qualifier  program where the level
of documentation obtained from a prospective customer
relative to income and assets was determined based in
part on data provided by the customer in their loan
application. The remaining 15% was originated with
full documentation (verified assets and verified
income).

The minimum monthly payment for substantially all
of our Pick-a-Pay loans is reset annually. The new
minimum monthly payment amount generally cannot exceed
the prior year s minimum payment amount
by more than 7.5%. The minimum payment may not be
sufficient to pay the monthly interest due, and in
those situations a loan on which the customer has made
a minimum payment is subject to  negative
amortization,  where unpaid interest is added to the
principal balance of the loan. The amount of interest
that has been added to a loan balance is referred to
as  deferred interest.  Our Pick-a-Pay customers have
been fairly constant in their utilization of the
minimum payment option. Of our Pick-a-Pay customers,
approximately 66% at December 31, 2008, based on
number of loans, had elected this option.

At December 31, 2008, approximately 51% of Pick-a-Pay
customers had elected the minimum payment option in
each of the past six months.

Deferral of interest on a Pick-a-Pay loan may continue as long as the loan
balance remains below a pre-defined principal cap,
which is based on the percentage that the current loan balance
represents to the original loan balance. Loans with an
original loan-to-value (LTV) ratio equal to or below
85% have a cap of 125% of the original loan balance,
and these loans represent substantially all of the
Pick-a-Pay portfolio. Loans with an original LTV ratio
above 85% have a cap of 110% of the original loan
balance. Pick-a-Pay loans on which there is a deferred
interest balance re-amortize (the monthly payment
amount is reset or  recast ) on the earlier of the
date when the loan balance reaches its principal cap,
or the 10-year anniversary of the loan. After a
recast, the customers  new payment terms are reset to
the amount necessary to repay the balance over the
remainder of the original loan term. Based on
assumptions of a flat rate environment, if all
eligible customers elect the minimum payment option
100% of the time and no balances prepay, we would
expect the following balance of loans to recast based
on reaching the cap: $5 million in 2009, $15 million
in 2010, $16 million in 2011 and $45 million in 2012.
In addition, we would expect the following balance of
ARM loans having a payment change based on the
contractual terms of the loan to recast; $27 million
in 2009, $59 million in 2010, $92 million in 2011 and
$163 million in 2012.

Included in the Pick-a-Pay portfolio are loans
accounted for under SOP 03-3 with a total
outstanding balance
 of $61.9 billion and a
carrying value of $37.6 billion. Loans that we
acquired from Wachovia with evidence of credit quality
deterioration since origination and for which it was
probable at the date of the Wachovia acquisition that
we will be unable to collect all contractually
required payments are accounted for under SOP 03-3,
which requires that acquired credit-impaired loans be
recorded at fair value and prohibits carrying over of
the related allowance in the initial accounting.

In stressed housing markets with declining home
prices and increasing delinquencies, the LTV ratio is
a key metric in predicting future loan performance,
including charge-offs. Because SOP 03-3 loans are
carried at fair value, the LTV ratio is not
necessarily a predictor of future loan performance.
For informational purposes we have also included the
ratio of the carrying amount to the current value of
the loans.

To maximize return and allow flexibility
for customers to avoid foreclosure, we have in place
several loss mitigation strategies for our Pick-a-Pay
loan portfolio. We contact customers who are
experiencing difficulty and may in certain cases
modify the terms of a loan based on a customer s
documented income and other circumstances.

61  

We also have in place proactive steps to work
with customers to refinance or restructure their
Pick-a-Pay loans into other loan products. For
customers at-risk, we will offer combinations of term
extensions of up to 40 years, interest rate
reductions, charge no interest on a portion of the
principal for some period of time and, in geographies
with substantial property value declines, we will
even use permanent principal reductions.

We expect to continually reassess our loss
mitigation strategies and may adopt additional
strategies in the future. To the extent that these
strategies involve making an economic concession to a
customer experiencing financial difficulty, they will
be accounted for and reported as TDRs.

Table 16:  Pick-a-Pay Portfolio 

(1) 
      
     Outstanding balances
 exclude purchase accounting nonaccretable difference of $(24.3)
billion; include accretable yield. 

(2) 
      
     Current LTV ratio is based on collateral values and is updated quarterly by an independent
vendor. LTV ratio includes outstanding balance on equity lines of credit (included in Table 15)
that share common collateral and are junior to the above Pick-a-Pay loans. 

62  

WELLS FARGO FINANCIAL   Wells Fargo Financial
originates real estate secured debt consolidation
loans, and both prime and non-prime auto secured
loans, unsecured loans and credit cards.

Wells Fargo Financial had $29.1 billion in real
estate secured loans as of December 31, 2008. Of this
portfolio, $1.8 billion is considered prime based on
secondary market standards and has been priced to the
customer accordingly. The remaining portfolio is
non-prime but has been originated with standards that
effectively mitigate credit risk. It has been
originated through our retail channel with documented
income, LTV limits based on credit quality and
property characteristics, and risk-based pricing. In
addition, the loans were originated without teaser
rates, interest-only or negative amortization
features. Credit losses in the portfolio have
increased in the current economic environment compared
with historical levels, but performance remained
similar to prime portfolios in the industry with
overall credit losses in 2008 of 1.08% on the entire
portfolio. Of the portfolio, $9.7 billion was
originated with customer FICO scores below 620, but
these loans have further restrictions on LTV and
debt-to-income ratios to limit the credit risk.

Wells Fargo Financial also had $23.6 billion in
auto secured loans and leases as of December 31,
2008, of which $6.3 billion was originated with
customer FICO scores below 620. Net charge-offs in
this portfolio for 2008 were 4.05% for FICO scores of
620 and above, and 6.27% for FICO scores below 620.
These loans were priced based on relative risk. Of
this portfolio, $18.2 billion represented loans and
leases originated through its indirect auto business,
which Wells Fargo Financial ceased originating
near the end of 2008.

Wells Fargo Financial had $8.4 billion in
unsecured loans and credit card receivables as of
December 31, 2008, of which $1.3 billion was
originated with customer FICO scores below 620. Net
charge offs in this portfolio for 2008 were 9.22% for
FICO scores of 620 and above, and 12.82% for FICO
scores below 620. These receivables were priced based
on relative risk. Wells Fargo Financial has been
actively tightening credit policies and managing
credit lines to reduce exposure given current economic
conditions.

COMMERCIAL AND COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE   For purposes
of portfolio risk management, we aggregate commercial
loans and lease financing according to market
segmentation and standard industry codes. Commercial
loans and lease financing are presented by industry
in Table 17. These groupings contain a highly diverse
mix of customer relationships throughout our target
markets. Loan types and product offerings are
carefully underwritten and monitored. Credit policies
incorporate specific industry risks.

Table 17:  Commercial Loans and Lease Financing by Industry 

63  

Other real estate mortgages and real estate
construction loans that are diversified in terms of
both the state where the property is located and by
the type of property securing the loans are presented
in Table 18. The composition of these portfolios was
stable throughout 2008 and the distribution is
consistent with our target markets and focus on
customer relationships.

Approximately $63.9 billion of other real estate
and construction loans are loans to owner-occupants
where more than 50% of the property is used in the
conduct of their business. Of this amount, 11%
represented SOP 03-3 loans.

Table 18:  Commercial Real Estate Loans by State and Property Type 

* 
       
     Less than 1%. 

(1) 
       
     Consists of 45 states; no state had loans in excess of $747 million. 

(2) 
       
     Includes owner-occupied real estate and
construction loans of $7.0 billion. 

(3) 
       
     Consists of
40 states; no state had loans in excess of $3,266
million. 

(4) 
       
     Includes owner-occupied real estate and
construction loans of $56.9 billion. 

64  

NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER ASSETS    Table 19 shows the five-year trend for nonaccrual loans and other assets. We generally place loans on nonaccrual status when: 

the full and timely collection of interest or
principal becomes uncertain; 

they are 90 days (120 days with respect to real estate 1-4 family first and
junior lien mortgages and auto loans) past due for
interest or principal (unless both well-secured and in
the process of collection); or 

part of the principal balance has been charged off. 

The combined company s nonaccrual loans include
$97 million from Wachovia related largely to lease
financing. Prior to the application of SOP 03-3,
Wachovia s nonaccrual loans totaled $20.1 billion,
including $14.0 billion of consumer loans ($11.6
billion of Pick-a-Pay) and $6.1 billion of commercial
and commercial real estate loans.

Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies) to Financial Statements describes our
accounting policy for nonaccrual loans.

Table 19 :   
     Nonaccrual Loans and Other Assets 

(1) 
       
     The allowance for credit losses does not include any amounts related to loans acquired
from Wachovia that are accounted for under SOP 03-3 (Wachovia s allowance related to these loans
was $12.0 billion), and nonaccrual loans exclude $20.0 billion of SOP 03-3 loans that were
previously reflected as nonaccrual by Wachovia. 

(2) 
       
     Includes nonaccrual mortgages held for sale. 

(3) 
       
     Includes impaired loans of $3,640 million, $469 million, $230 million, $190 million and $309
million at December 31, 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. See Note 1 (Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies) and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial
Statements for further discussion of impaired loans. 

(4) 
       
     Due to a change in regulatory reporting requirements effective January 1, 2006, foreclosed real estate securing GNMA loans has been
classified as nonperforming. Both principal and interest for GNMA loans secured by the foreclosed
real estate are collectible because the GNMA loans are insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the
Department of Veterans Affairs. 

(5) 
       
     Includes real estate investments (contingent interest loans accounted for as investments) that
would be classified as nonaccrual if these assets were recorded as loans. 

Nonaccrual loans increased $4.1 billion to $6.8
billion at December 31, 2008, from $2.7 billion a year
ago, reflecting the deterioration in economic
conditions, primarily in portfolios affected by the
residential real estate environment and the associated
impact on the consumer. A small portion of the
increase in nonaccrual loans from a year ago continues
to be related to our active loss mitigation strategies
at Home Equity, Home Mortgage and Wells Fargo
Financial as we are aggressively working with
customers to keep them in their homes or find
alternative solutions to their financial challenges.
Home builders, mortgage service providers,
contractors, suppliers and others in the residential
real estate-related segments continued to be stressed
during this credit cycle. Additionally, as consumers
cut back on discretionary spending, we are seeing some
of the commercial loan portfolios dependent on their
spending weaken. The $2.1 billion

increase in
nonaccrual consumer loans from a year ago was
primarily due to an increase of $742 million in Wells
Fargo Financial real estate and an increase of $424
million in Home Mortgage. Nonaccrual real estate 1-4
family loans included approximately $3.4 billion of
loans at December 31, 2008, that have been modified.
Our policy requires six consecutive months of payments
on modified loans before they are returned to accrual
status. Other foreclosed assets increased $877 million
(including $885 million acquired from Wachovia) to
$1.5 billion at December 31, 2008. Until conditions
improve in the residential real estate and liquidity
markets, we will continue to hold more nonperforming
assets on our balance sheet as it is currently the
most economic option available. Increases in
commercial nonperforming assets were also primarily a
direct result of the conditions in the residential
real estate markets and general consumer economy.

65 

We expect that the amount of nonaccrual loans
will change due to portfolio growth, economic growth,
portfolio seasoning, routine problem loan recognition
and resolution through collections, sales or
charge-offs. See  Financial Review   Allowance for
Credit Losses  for additional discussion. The
performance of any one loan can be affected by
external factors, such as economic or market
conditions, or factors affecting a particular
borrower.

If interest due on the book balances of all
nonaccrual loans (including loans that were but are no
longer on nonaccrual at year end) had been accrued
under the original terms, approximately $310 million
of interest would have been recorded in 2008, compared
with payments of $33 million recorded as interest
income.

At year-end 2008, substantially all of our
foreclosed assets of $2.2 billion have been in the
portfolio one year or less, including $885 million
acquired from Wachovia.

LOANS 90 DAYS OR MORE PAST DUE AND STILL ACCRUING  

Loans included in this category are 90 days or more
past due as to interest or principal and still
accruing, because they are (1) well-secured and in the
process of collection or (2) real estate 1-4 family
first mortgage loans or consumer loans exempt under
regulatory rules from being classified as nonaccrual.
Loans acquired from Wachovia that are subject to SOP
03-3 are excluded from the disclosure of loans 90 days
or more past due and still accruing interest even
though substantially all of them are 90 days or more
contractually past due and they are considered to be
accruing because the interest income on these loans
relates to the establishment of an accretable yield in
purchase accounting under the SOP and not to
contractual interest payments.

Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing
totaled $12,645 million (Wells Fargo and Wachovia
combined), $6,393 million, $5,073 million, $3,606
million and $2,578 million at December 31, 2008, 2007,
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The total included
$8,184 million, $4,834 million, $3,913 million, $2,923
million and $1,820 million for the same periods,
respectively, in advances pursuant to our servicing
agreements to GNMA mortgage pools and similar loans
whose repayments are insured by the FHA or guaranteed
by the Department of Veterans Affairs. Table 20
reflects loans 90 days or more past due and still
accruing excluding the insured/guaranteed GNMA
advances.

Table 20:    
      Loans 90 Days or More Past Due and Still
Accruing  
(Excluding Insured/Guaranteed GNMA and Similar Loans)  

(1) 
       
     Includes mortgage loans held for sale 90 days or more past due and still accruing. 

ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES    The allowance for credit
losses, which consists of the allowance for loan
losses and the reserve for unfunded credit
commitments, is management s estimate of credit losses
inherent in the loan portfolio at the balance sheet
date. We assume that our allowance for credit losses
as a percentage of charge-offs and nonaccrual loans
will change at different points in time based on
credit performance, loan mix and collateral values.
Any loan with past due principal or interest that is
not both well-secured and in the process of collection
generally is charged off (to the extent that it
exceeds the fair value of any related collateral)
based on loan category after a defined period of time.
Also, a loan is charged off when classified as a loss
by either internal loan examiners or regulatory
examiners. The detail of the changes in the allowance
for credit losses, including charge-offs and
recoveries by loan category, is in Note 6 (Loans and
Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements. 

At December 31, 2008, the allowance for loan
losses totaled $21.0 billion (Wells Fargo and
Wachovia) (2.43% of total loans), compared with $5.3
billion (Wells Fargo only) (1.39%), at December 31,
2007. The allowance for credit losses was $21.7
billion (2.51% of total loans) at December 31, 2008,
and $5.52 billion (1.44%) at December 31, 2007. The
allowance for loan losses and the allowance for credit
losses do not include any amounts related to loans
acquired from Wachovia that are accounted for under
SOP 03-3 (Wachovia s allowance related to these loans was
$12.0 billion), and loans acquired from Wachovia are
included in total loans net of related purchase
accounting net write-downs. These ratios fluctuate
from period to period and the increase in the ratios
of the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for
credit losses to total loans in 2008 was primarily due
to the $8.1 billion credit reserve build in 2008 that
included $3.9 billion to conform

66 

estimated loss emergence coverage periods to the most conservative of
each company within FFIEC guidelines as described
below. The reserve for unfunded credit commitments was
$698 million at December 31, 2008, and $211 million at
December 31, 2007.

The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to
total nonaccrual loans was 319% and 206% at December
31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in this
ratio reflects the addition of $9.3 billion (including
$1.5 billion of conforming and purchase accounting
adjustments) of Wachovia allowance for credit losses,
but excludes $20.0 billion of SOP 03-3 loans that were
previously reflected as nonaccrual by Wachovia. This
ratio may fluctuate significantly from period to
period due to such factors as the mix of loan types in
the portfolio, borrower credit strength and the value
and marketability of collateral. Over half of
nonaccrual loans were home mortgages, auto and other
consumer loans at December 31, 2008. Nonaccrual loans
are generally written down to fair value less cost to
sell at the time they are placed on nonaccrual and
accounted for on a cost recovery basis.

The ratio of the allowance for loan losses to annual net
charge-offs was 268%, 150% and 175% at December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase in
this ratio primarily relates to the addition of $8.7
billion (including $1.2 billion of conforming
adjustments) from Wachovia while net charge-offs do
not include any amounts from Wachovia as the
acquisition closed at year end. This ratio may
fluctuate significantly from period to period due to
many factors, including general economic conditions,
customer credit strength and the marketability of
collateral. While we consider the ratio of the
allowance for loan losses to annual net charge-offs,
such trends are not determinative in and of
themselves, as we use several analytical tools in
determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan
losses. The allowance for loan losses reflects
management s estimate of credit losses inherent in the
loan portfolio based on loss emergence periods of the
respective loans, underlying economic and market
conditions, among other factors. See  Critical
Accounting Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses 
for additional information. The allowance for loan
losses at December 31, 2008, also includes the
allowance acquired from the Wachovia acquisition,
while 2008 net charge-offs do not include activity
related to Wachovia.

The provision for credit losses
totaled $16.0 billion in 2008, $4.9 billion in 2007
and $2.2 billion in 2006. In 2008, the provision
included a credit reserve build of $8.1 billion in
excess of net charge-offs, which included $3.9 billion
to conform loss emergence coverage periods to the most
conservative of each company within FFIEC guidelines.
Of the $3.9 billion, $2.7 billion related to Wells
Fargo consumer loans to extend the loss emergence
period to 12 months of estimated incurred losses for
all consumer portfolios, a period which is FFIEC
compliant and which best fits the projected loss
emergence period of the combined company s consumer loan
portfolio, and is consistent with Wells Fargo consumer
loan portfolio loss emergence trends reflecting our
increased loss mitigation efforts.

The remaining $1.2 billion conforming adjustment
was related to an increase in the allowance for loan
losses for legacy Wachovia commercial and Pick-a-Pay
portfolios to align with the respective Wells Fargo
methodology. The remainder of the reserve build was
attributable to higher projected loss rates across the
majority of the consumer credit businesses, and some
credit deterioration and growth in the wholesale
portfolios. In 2007, the provision included $1.4
billion in excess of net charge-offs, which was our
estimate of the increase in incurred losses in our
loan portfolio at year-end 2007, primarily related to
the Home Equity portfolio.

Net charge-offs in 2008 were 1.97% of average
total loans, compared with 1.03% in 2007 and 0.73% in
2006. Home Equity net charge-offs totaled $2.2 billion
(2.59% of average Home Equity loans) in 2008, a $1.6
billion increase from $595 million (0.73%) in 2007.
The increase was primarily due to loans in geographic
markets that have experienced the most abrupt and
steepest declines in housing prices coupled with a
deteriorating economic environment impacting our
customers. Since our loss experience through third
party channels produced unexpectedly high results, we
segregated these loans into a liquidating portfolio.
As previously disclosed, while the $10.3 billion of
loans in this liquidating portfolio represented about
1% of total loans outstanding at December 31, 2008,
these loans represent some of the highest risk in our
$129.5 billion Home Equity portfolios. The loans in
the liquidating portfolio were primarily sourced
through wholesale (brokers) and correspondents. Our
real estate 1-4 family first mortgage portfolio began
to experience credit deterioration in 2008 given the
continued decline in housing prices and the economic
environment, with net charge-offs of $503 million
(0.67% of average loans) for 2008, up from $87 million
(0.14%) for 2007.

Although credit quality in Wells Fargo
Financial s real estate-secured lending business has
deteriorated, we have not experienced the level of
credit degradation that many non-prime lenders have
because of our disciplined underwriting practices.
Wells Fargo Financial has continued its long-standing
practice not to use brokers or correspondents in its
U.S. debt consolidation business.

Auto portfolio net charge-offs for 2008 were $1.23 billion (4.50% of
average auto loans), compared with $1.02 billion
(3.45%) in 2007. While we have continued to reduce the
size of this portfolio and limited additional growth,
the economic environment has adversely affected
portfolio results. We have remained focused on our
loss mitigation strategies, however, credit
performance has deteriorated as a result of increased
unemployment and depressed used car values, resulting
in higher than expected losses for the year.

Consumer credit card net charge-offs for 2008 were $1.42
billion (7.22% of average credit card loans), compared
with $712 million (4.49%) in 2007. The increase in
credit card net charge-offs was due to an overall
weakening in the economy and its impact to our
customers.

Credit performance in the commercial and
commercial real estate portfolio showed signs of
deterioration given the current economic environment, with net
charge-offs of $1.79 billion

67 

(1.07% of average loans), compared with $536 million
(0.40%) in 2007. A major portion of these charge-offs
came from loans originated through our Business Direct
channel. Business Direct consists primarily of
unsecured lines of credit to small firms and sole
proprietors that tend to perform in a manner similar
to credit cards. Similarly, we have not made a market
in subprime securities. Leveraged-buyout-related
outstandings are diversified by business and borrower
and totaled less than 4% of total loans.

The following table presents the allocation of
the allowance for credit losses by type of loans. The
$16.2 billion increase in the allowance for credit
losses from year-end 2007 to year-end 2008 included an
$8.1 billion credit reserve build, including $3.9
billion to conform credit reserve practices of Wells
Fargo and Wachovia, and the addition of $7.8 billion

from Wachovia. The $1.55 billion increase in the
allowance for credit losses from year-end 2006 to
year-end 2007 was due to actions taken in 2007
primarily related to the Home Equity portfolio and
approximately $100 million acquired from bank
acquisitions. Changes in the allowance reflect changes
in statistically derived loss estimates, historical
loss experience, current trends in borrower risk
and/or general economic activity on portfolio
performance, and management s estimate for imprecision
and uncertainty. Effective December 31, 2006, the
entire allowance was assigned to individual portfolio
types to better reflect our view of risk in these
portfolios. The allowance for credit losses includes a
combination of baseline loss estimates and a range of
imprecision or uncertainty specific to each portfolio
segment previously categorized as unallocated in prior
years.

Table 21:  Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL)   

We believe the allowance for credit losses of
$21.7 billion was adequate to cover credit losses
inherent in the loan portfolio, including unfunded
credit commitments, at December 31, 2008. The process
for determining the adequacy of the allowance for
credit losses is critical to our
financial results. It requires difficult,
subjective and complex judgments as a result of the
need to make estimates about the effect of matters
that are uncertain. See  Financial Review   Critical
Accounting Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses. 
Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that, in any
particular period, we will not have sizeable credit
losses in relation to the amount reserved. We may need
to significantly adjust the allowance for credit
losses, considering current factors at the time,
including economic or market conditions and ongoing
internal and external examination processes. Our
process for determining the adequacy of the allowance
for credit losses is discussed in  Financial Review  
Critical Accounting Policies   Allowance for Credit
Losses  and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit
Losses) to Financial Statements.

Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management    
Asset/liability management involves the evaluation,
monitoring and management of interest rate risk,
market risk, liquidity and funding. The Corporate
Asset/Liability Management Committee (Corporate
ALCO) which oversees these risks and reports
periodically to the Finance Committee of the Board of
Directors consists of senior financial and business
executives. Each of our principal business groups has
its own asset/liability management committee and
process linked to the Corporate ALCO process.

INTEREST RATE RISK   Interest rate risk, which
potentially can have a significant earnings impact, is
an integral part of being a financial intermediary. We
are subject to interest rate risk because:

assets
and liabilities may mature or reprice at different
times (for example, if assets reprice faster than
liabilities and interest rates are generally falling,
earnings will initially decline); 

68  

assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time
but by different amounts (for example, when the
general level of interest rates is falling, we may
reduce rates paid on checking and savings deposit
accounts by an amount that is less than the general
decline in market interest rates); 

short-term and
long-term market interest rates may change by
different amounts (for example, the shape of the
yield curve may affect new loan yields and funding
costs differently); or 

the remaining maturity of
various assets or liabilities may shorten or lengthen
as interest rates change (for example, if long-term
mortgage interest rates decline sharply,
mortgage-backed securities held in the securities
available-for-sale portfolio may prepay significantly
earlier than anticipated, which could reduce
portfolio income). 

Interest rates may also have a direct or indirect
effect on loan demand, credit losses, mortgage
origination volume, the fair value of MSRs and other
financial instruments, the value of the pension
liability and other items affecting earnings.

We assess interest rate risk by comparing our most likely
earnings plan with various earnings simulations using
many interest rate scenarios that differ in the
direction of interest rate changes, the degree of
change over time, the speed of change and the
projected shape of the yield curve. For example, as of
December 31, 2008, our most recent simulation
indicated estimated earnings at risk of less than 1%
of our most likely earnings plan over the next 12
months using a scenario in which the federal funds
rate rises to 4% and the 10-year Constant Maturity
Treasury
bond yield rises to 6%.
Simulation estimates depend on, and will change with,
the size and mix of our actual and projected balance
sheet at the time of each simulation. Due to timing
differences between the quarterly valuation of MSRs
and the eventual impact of interest rates on mortgage
banking volumes, earnings at risk in any particular
quarter could be higher than the average earnings at
risk over the 12-month simulation period, depending on
the path of interest rates and on our hedging
strategies for MSRs. See  Mortgage Banking Interest
Rate and Market Risk. 

We use exchange-traded and
over-the-counter interest rate derivatives to hedge
our interest rate exposures. The notional or
contractual amount, credit risk amount and estimated
net fair value of these derivatives as of December 31,
2008 and 2007, are presented in Note 16 (Derivatives)
to Financial Statements. We use derivatives for
asset/liability management in three main ways:

to
convert a major portion of our long-term fixed-rate
debt, which we issue to finance the Company, from
fixed-rate payments to floating-rate payments by
entering into receive-fixed swaps; 

to convert the
cash flows from selected asset and/or liability
instruments/portfolios from fixed-rate payments to
floating-rate payments or vice versa; and 

to hedge
our mortgage origination pipeline, funded mortgage
loans and MSRs using interest rate swaps, swaptions,
futures, forwards and options. 

MORTGAGE BANKING INTEREST RATE AND MARKET RISK  
We originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which
subjects us to various risks, including credit,
liquidity and interest rate risks. Based on market
conditions and other factors, we reduce unwanted
credit and liquidity risks by selling or securitizing
some or all of the long-term fixed-rate mortgage loans
and ARMs we originate. On the other hand, we may hold
originated ARMs and fixed-rate mortgage loans in our
loan portfolio as an investment for our growing base
of core deposits. We determine whether the loans will
be held for investment or held for sale at the time of
commitment. We may subsequently change our intent to
hold loans for investment and sell some or all of our
ARMs or fixed-rate mortgage loans as part of our
corporate asset/liability management. We may also
acquire and add to our securities available for sale a
portion of the securities issued at the time we
securitize mortgages held for sale.

2008 was another challenging year for the
financial services industry with the continued
deterioration in the capital markets, widening credit
spreads and significant increases in market
volatility, in addition to changes in interest rates
discussed in the following sections. Notwithstanding
the continued downturn in the housing sector, and the
continued lack of liquidity in the nonconforming
secondary markets, our mortgage banking revenue
continued to be positive, reflecting the complementary
origination and servicing strengths of the business.
The secondary market for agency-conforming mortgages
functioned well for most of the year. The mortgage
warehouse and pipeline, which predominantly consists
of prime mortgage loans, was written down by $584
million in 2008 to reflect the unusual widening in
nonconforming and conforming agency market spreads. In
addition to the write-down associated with the
mortgage warehouse and pipeline, we further reduced
mortgage
origination gains by $234 million in 2008
primarily to reflect an increase to the repurchase
reserve for higher projected losses due to the
continuing deterioration in the housing market.

Interest rate and market risk can be substantial in
the mortgage business. Changes in interest rates may
potentially impact total origination and servicing
fees, the value of our residential MSRs measured at
fair value, the value of MHFS and the associated
income and loss reflected in mortgage banking
noninterest income, the income and expense associated
with instruments (economic hedges) used to hedge
changes in the fair value of MSRs and MHFS, and the
value of derivative loan commitments (interest rate
 locks ) extended to mortgage applicants.

Interest rates impact the amount and timing of
origination and servicing fees because consumer demand
for new mortgages and the level of refinancing
activity are sensitive to changes in mortgage interest
rates. Typically, a decline in mortgage interest rates
will lead to an increase in mortgage originations and
fees and may also lead to an increase in servicing fee
income, depending on the level of new loans added to
the servicing portfolio and prepayments. Given the
time it takes for consumer behavior to fully react to
interest rate changes, as well as the time required
for processing a new

69  

application, providing the
commitment, and securitizing and selling the loan,
interest rate changes will impact origination and
servicing fees with a lag. The amount and timing of
the impact on origination and servicing fees will
depend on the magnitude, speed and duration of the
change in interest rates.

Under FAS 159,  The Fair Value Option for
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, including
an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115,  which we
adopted January 1, 2007, we elected to measure MHFS at
fair value prospectively for new prime MHFS
originations for which an active secondary market and
readily available market prices existed to reliably
support fair value pricing models used for these
loans. At December 31, 2008, we elected to measure at
fair value similar MHFS acquired from Wachovia. Loan
origination fees on these loans are recorded when
earned, and related direct loan origination costs and
fees are recognized when incurred. We also elected to
measure at fair value certain of our other interests
held related to residential loan sales and
securitizations. We believe that the election for new
prime MHFS and other interests held (which are now
hedged with free-standing derivatives (economic
hedges) along with our MSRs) reduces certain timing
differences and better matches changes in the value of
these assets with changes in the value of derivatives
used as economic hedges for these assets. During 2008,
in response to continued secondary market illiquidity,
we continued to originate certain prime non-agency
loans to be held for investment for the foreseeable
future rather than to be held for sale.

Under FAS 156,  Accounting for Servicing of
Financial Assets   an amendment of FASB Statement No.
140,  we elected to use the fair value measurement
method to initially measure and carry our residential
MSRs, which represent substantially all of our MSRs.
Under this method, the MSRs are recorded at fair value
at the time we sell or securitize the related mortgage
loans. The carrying value of MSRs reflects changes in
fair value at the end of each
quarter and changes are included in net servicing
income, a component of mortgage banking noninterest
income. If the fair value of the MSRs increases,
income is recognized; if the fair value of the MSRs
decreases, a loss is recognized. We use a dynamic and
sophisticated model to estimate the fair value of our
MSRs and periodically benchmark our estimates to
independent appraisals. While the valuation of MSRs
can be highly subjective and involve complex judgments
by management about matters that are inherently
unpredictable, changes in interest rates influence a
variety of significant assumptions included in the
periodic valuation of MSRs. Assumptions affected
include prepayment speed, expected returns and
potential risks on the servicing asset portfolio, the
value of escrow balances and other servicing valuation
elements impacted by interest rates.

A decline in interest rates generally increases
the propensity for refinancing, reduces the expected
duration of the servicing portfolio and therefore
reduces the estimated fair value of MSRs. This
reduction in fair value causes a charge to income (net
of any gains on free-standing derivatives (economic
hedges) used to hedge MSRs). We may choose not to

fully hedge all of the potential decline in the value
of our MSRs resulting from a decline in interest rates
because the potential increase in
origination/servicing fees in that scenario provides a
partial  natural business hedge.  An increase in
interest rates generally reduces the propensity for
refinancing, increases the expected duration of the
servicing portfolio and therefore increases the
estimated fair value of the MSRs. However, an increase
in interest rates can also reduce mortgage loan demand
and therefore reduce origination income. In 2008, a
$3,341 million decrease in the fair value of our MSRs
and $3,099 million of gains on free-standing
derivatives used to hedge the MSRs resulted in a net
loss of $242 million.

Hedging the various sources of interest rate risk
in mortgage banking is a complex process that requires
sophisticated modeling and constant monitoring. While
we attempt to balance these various aspects of the
mortgage business, there are several potential risks
to earnings:

MSRs valuation changes associated with interest
rate changes are recorded in earnings immediately
within the accounting period in which those
interest rate changes occur, whereas the impact
of those same changes in interest rates on
origination and servicing fees occur with a lag
and over time. Thus, the mortgage business could
be protected from adverse changes in interest
rates over a period of time on a cumulative basis
but still display large variations in income from
one accounting period to the next. 

The degree to which the  natural business
hedge  offsets changes in MSRs valuations is
imperfect, varies at different points in the
interest rate cycle, and depends not just on
the direction of interest rates but on the
pattern of quarterly interest rate changes. 

Origination volumes, the valuation of MSRs and
hedging results and associated costs are also
impacted by many factors. Such factors include
the mix of new business between ARMs and
fixed-rated mortgages, the relationship between
short-term and long-term interest rates, the
degree of volatility in interest rates, the
relationship between mortgage interest rates and
other
interest rate markets, and other interest rate
factors. Many of these factors are hard to predict
and we may not be able to directly or perfectly
hedge their effect. 

While our hedging activities are designed to
balance our mortgage banking interest rate
risks, the financial instruments we use may not
perfectly correlate with the values and income
being hedged. For example, the change in the
value of ARMs production held for sale from
changes in mortgage interest rates may or may
not be fully offset by Treasury and LIBOR
index-based financial instruments used as
economic hedges for such ARMs. 

The total carrying value of our residential and
commercial MSRs was $16.2 billion at December 31,
2008, and $17.2 billion at December 31, 2007. The
weighted-average note rate on the owned servicing
portfolio was 5.92% at December 31, 2008, and 6.01% at
December 31, 2007. Our total MSRs were 0.87% of
mortgage loans serviced for others at December 31,
2008, compared with 1.20% at December 31, 2007.

70  

As part of our mortgage banking activities, we enter into commitments to fund residential
mortgage loans at specified times in the future. A mortgage loan commitment is an interest rate
lock that binds us to lend funds to a potential borrower at a specified interest rate and within a
specified period of time, generally up to 60 days after inception of the rate lock. These loan
commitments are derivative loan commitments if the loans that will result from the exercise of the
commitments will be held for sale. These derivative loan commitments are recognized at fair value
in the balance sheet with changes in their fair values recorded as part of mortgage banking
noninterest income. For interest rate lock commitments issued prior to January 1, 2008, we recorded
a zero fair value for the derivative loan commitment at inception consistent with SAB 105.
Effective January 1, 2008, we were required by SAB 109 to include, at inception and during the life
of the loan commitment, the expected net future cash flows related to the associated servicing of
the loan as part of the fair value measurement of derivative loan commitments. The implementation
of SAB 109 did not have a material impact on our results or the valuation of our loan commitments.
Changes subsequent to inception are based on changes in fair value of the underlying loan resulting
from the exercise of the commitment and changes in the probability that the loan will not fund
within the terms of the commitment (referred to as a fall-out factor). The value of the underlying
loan is affected primarily by changes in interest rates and the passage of time.

Outstanding derivative loan commitments expose us to the risk that the price of the mortgage
loans underlying the commitments might decline due to increases in mortgage interest rates from
inception of the rate lock to the funding of the loan. To minimize this risk, we utilize forwards
and options, Eurodollar futures, Eurodollar options, and Treasury futures, forwards and options
contracts as economic hedges against the potential decreases in the values of the loans. We expect
that these derivative financial instruments will experience changes in fair value that will either
fully or partially offset the changes in fair value of the derivative loan commitments. However,
changes in investor demand, such as concerns about credit risk, can also cause changes in the
spread relationships between underlying loan value and the derivative financial instruments that
cannot be hedged.

MARKET RISK   TRADING ACTIVITIES   From a market risk perspective, our net income is exposed to
changes in interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and commodity prices and
their implied volatilities. The primary purpose of our trading businesses is to accommodate
customers in the management of their market price risks. Also, we take positions based on market
expectations or to benefit from price differences between financial instruments and markets,
subject to risk limits established and monitored by Corporate ALCO. All securities, foreign
exchange transactions, commodity transactions and derivatives used in our trading businesses are
carried at fair value. The Institutional Risk Committee establishes and monitors counterparty risk
limits.

The notional or contractual amount, credit risk amount and estimated net fair value of all
customer accommodation derivatives at December 31, 2008 and 2007, are included in Note 16
(Derivatives) to Financial Statements. Open,  at risk  positions for all trading businesses are
monitored by Corporate ALCO.

The standardized approach for monitoring and reporting market risk for the trading activities
is the value-at-risk (VAR) metrics complemented with factor analysis and stress testing. VAR
measures the worst expected loss over a given time interval and within a given confidence interval.
We measure and report daily VAR at a 99% confidence interval based on actual changes in rates and
prices over the past 250 trading days. The analysis captures all financial instruments that are
considered trading positions. The average one-day VAR throughout 2008 was $19 million, with a lower
bound of $10 million and an upper bound of $52 million. We acquired from Wachovia a capital markets
business. Generally, these activities have a more significant VAR exposure.

MARKET RISK   EQUITY MARKETS   We are directly and indirectly affected by changes in the
equity markets. We make and manage direct equity investments in start-up businesses, emerging
growth companies, management buy-outs, acquisitions and corporate recapitalizations. We also invest
in non-affiliated funds that make similar private equity investments. These private equity
investments are made within capital allocations approved by management and the Board of Directors
(the Board). The Board s policy is to review business developments, key risks and historical
returns for the private equity investment portfolio at least annually. Management reviews the
valuations of these investments at least quarterly and assesses them for possible
other-than-temporary impairment. For nonmarketable investments, the analysis is based on facts and
circumstances of each individual investment and the expectations for that investment s cash flows
and capital needs, the viability of its business model and our exit strategy. Nonmarketable
investments included private equity investments of $2.71 billion at December 31, 2008, and $2.02
billion at December 31, 2007, and principal investments of $1.28 billion at December 31, 2008.
Private equity investments are carried at cost subject to other-than-temporary impairment.
Principal investments are
carried at fair value with net unrealized gains and losses reported in noninterest income.

We also have marketable equity securities in the securities available-for-sale portfolio,
including securities relating to our venture capital activities. We manage these investments within
capital risk limits approved by management and the Board and monitored by Corporate ALCO. Gains and
losses on these securities are recognized in net income when realized and periodically include
other-than-temporary impairment charges, which are recorded when determined. The fair value of
marketable equity securities was $6.14 billion and cost was $6.30 billion at December 31, 2008, and
$2.78 billion and $2.88 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2007.

71  

Changes in equity market prices may also indirectly affect our net income by affecting (1) the
value of third party assets under management and, hence, fee income, (2) particular borrowers,
whose ability to repay principal and/or interest may be affected by the stock market, or (3)
brokerage activity, related commission income and other business activities. Each business line
monitors and manages these indirect risks.

LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING   The objective of effective liquidity management is to ensure that we
can meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals and other cash commitments
efficiently under both normal operating conditions and under unpredictable circumstances of
industry or market stress. To achieve this objective, Corporate ALCO establishes and monitors
liquidity guidelines that require sufficient asset-based liquidity to cover potential funding
requirements and to avoid over-dependence on volatile, less reliable funding markets. We set these
guidelines for both the consolidated balance sheet and for the Parent to ensure that the Parent is
a source of strength for its regulated, deposit-taking banking subsidiaries.

Debt securities in the securities available-for-sale portfolio provide asset liquidity, in
addition to the immediately liquid resources of cash and due from banks and federal funds sold,
securities purchased under resale agreements and other short-term investments. The weighted-average
expected remaining maturity of the debt securities within this portfolio was 5.2 years at December
31, 2008. Of the $155.2 billion (cost basis) of debt securities in this portfolio at December 31,
2008, $49.9 billion (32%) is expected to mature or be prepaid in 2009 and an additional $21.7
billion (14%) in 2010. Asset liquidity is further enhanced by our ability to sell or securitize
loans in secondary markets and to pledge loans to access secured borrowing facilities through the
Federal Home Loan Banks, the Federal Reserve Board, or the U.S. Treasury. In 2008, we sold mortgage
loans of $218 billion. The amount of mortgage loans

and other consumer loans available to be sold, securitized or pledged was approximately $230
billion at December 31, 2008.

Core customer deposits have historically provided a sizeable source of relatively stable and
low-cost funds. Average core deposits funded 53.8% and 58.2% of average total assets in 2008 and
2007, respectively.

The remaining assets were funded by long-term debt (including trust preferred securities),
certain other deposits, and short-term borrowings (federal funds purchased, securities sold under
repurchase agreements, commercial paper and other short-term borrowings). Long-term debt averaged
$102.3 billion in 2008 and $93.2 billion in 2007. Short-term borrowings averaged $65.8 billion in
2008 and $25.9 billion in 2007, an increase of $39.9 billion due to business funding needs.

We anticipate making capital expenditures of approximately $2.8 billion in 2009 for our
stores, relocation and remodeling of our facilities, and routine replacement of furniture,
equipment and servers. We fund expenditures from various sources, including cash flows from
operations and borrowings.

Liquidity is also available through our ability to raise funds in a variety of domestic and
international money and capital markets. We access capital markets for long-term funding through
issuances of registered debt securities, private placements and asset-backed secured funding.
Rating agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital
adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, and level and quality of earnings. Material
changes in these factors could result in a different debt rating; however, a change in debt rating
would not cause us to violate any of our debt covenants. At February 23, 2009, Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. has the highest credit rating currently given to U.S. banks by Moody s Investors Service,
 Aa1,  and Standard   Poor s Rating Services,  AA . 

Table 22 provides the credit ratings of the Company, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wachovia Bank,
N.A. as of February 23, 2009.

Table 22:  Credit Ratings 

Wells Fargo   Company 

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 

Wachovia Bank, N.A. 

Senior debt    

Subord- inated debt   

Commer- cial paper   

Long- term deposits   

Short- term borrow- ings 

Long- term deposits   

Short- term borrow- ings 

Moody s

Aa3 

A1 

P-1 

Aa1 

P-1 

Aa1 

P-1 

S P

AA 

AA 
     - 

A-1 

AA 

A-1 

AA 

A-1 

Fitch, Inc.

AA 

AA 
     - 

F1 

AA 

F1 

AA 

F1 

DBRS

AA 

AA 
      *  

R-1 
      **  
       
     AA 
      ***  

R-1 
      ***  
       
     AA 
     *** 

R-1 
     *** 

* low   ** middle   *** high

Wells Fargo is participating in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation s (FDIC) Temporary
Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP). The TLGP has two components: the Debt Guarantee Program, which
provides a temporary guarantee of newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by eligible entities;
and the Transaction Account Guarantee Program, which provides a temporary unlimited guarantee of

funds in noninterest bearing transaction accounts at FDIC insured institutions. Under the Debt
Guarantee Program, we have $91.7 billion of remaining capacity to issue guaranteed debt as of
December 31, 2008. Eligible entities will be assessed fees payable to the FDIC for coverage under
the program. This assessment will be in addition to risk-based deposit insurance assessments
currently imposed under FDIC rules and regulations.

72  

Parent.  Under SEC rules, the Parent is classified as a  well-known seasoned issuer,  which
allows it to file a registration statement that does not have a limit on issuance capacity.
 Well-known seasoned issuers  generally include those companies with a public float of common
equity of at least $700 million or those companies that have issued at least $1 billion in
aggregate principal amount of non-convertible securities, other than common equity, in the last
three years. In June 2006, the Parent s registration statement with the SEC for issuance of senior
and subordinated notes, preferred stock and other securities became effective. The Parent s ability
to issue debt and other securities under this registration statement is limited by the debt
issuance authority granted by the Board. The Parent is currently authorized by the Board to issue
$60 billion in outstanding short-term debt and $170 billion in outstanding long-term debt, subject
to a total outstanding debt limit of $230 billion. At December 31, 2008, the Parent had outstanding
debt under these authorities of $31.9 billion, $133.1 billion and $165.8 billion, respectively.
During 2008, the Parent issued a total of $12.8 billion in registered senior notes. The Parent also
issued capital securities in the form of $6.5 billion in junior subordinated debt to statutory
business trusts formed by the Parent, which, in turn, issued trust preferred and perpetual
preferred purchase securities. We used the proceeds from securities issued in 2008 for general
corporate purposes and expect that the proceeds from securities issued in the future will also be
used for general corporate purposes. On May 1, 2008, the Parent remarketed $2.9 billion aggregate
original principal amount of its Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures (the Debentures) due
2033. Following the remarketing, the Debentures are no longer convertible, and the principal amount
of the Debentures will accrete at a rate of 3.55175% per annum, commencing May 1, 2008. Net
proceeds of the remarketing will be paid to holders of the Debentures that elected to participate
in the remarketing. The Parent also issues commercial paper from time to time, subject to its
short-term debt limit.

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.  Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is authorized by its board of directors to issue
$100 billion in outstanding short-term debt and $50 billion in outstanding long-term debt. In
December 2007, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. established a $100 billion bank note program under which,
subject to any other debt outstanding under the limits described above, it may issue $50 billion in
outstanding short-term senior notes and $50 billion in long-term senior or subordinated notes. At
December 31, 2008, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. had remaining issuance capacity on the bank note program
of $49.0 billion and $48.4 billion, respectively. Securities are issued under this program as private
placements in accordance with Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) regulations. During
2008, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. issued $43.1 billion in short-term and long-term senior notes.

Wachovia Bank, N.A.  Wachovia Bank, N.A. had $49.0 billion available for issuance under a
global note program at December 31, 2008. Wachovia Bank, N.A. also has a $25 billion Euro
medium-term note program (EMTN) under which it may issue senior and subordinated debt securities.
These securities are not registered with the SEC and may not be offered in the U.S. without
applicable exemptions from registration. Under the EMTN, Wachovia Bank, N.A. had up to $22.4
billion available for issuance at December 31, 2008. In addition, Wachovia Bank, N.A. has an A$10
billion Australian medium-term note program (AMTN), under which it may issue senior and
subordinated debt securities. These securities are not registered with the SEC and may not be
offered in the U.S. without applicable exemptions from registration. Up to A$8.5 billion was
available for issuance at December 31, 2008.

Wells Fargo Financial.  In February 2008, Wells Fargo Financial Canada Corporation (WFFCC), an
indirect wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary of the Parent, qualified with the Canadian provincial
securities commissions CAD$7.0 billion in medium-term notes for distribution from time to time in
Canada. In 2008, WFFCC issued CAD$500 million in medium-term notes, leaving CAD$6.5 billion
available for future issuance. All medium-term notes issued by WFFCC are unconditionally guaranteed
by the Parent.

Capital Management 

We have an active program for managing stockholder capital. We use capital to fund organic
growth, acquire banks and other financial services companies, pay dividends and repurchase our
shares. Our objective is to produce above-market long-term returns by opportunistically using
capital when returns are perceived to be high and issuing/accumulating capital when the costs of
doing so are perceived to be low.

From time to time the Board of Directors authorizes the Company to repurchase shares of our
common stock. Although we announce when the Board authorizes share repurchases, we typically do not
give any public notice before we repurchase our shares. Various factors determine the amount and
timing of our share repurchases, including our

capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for acquisitions and employee
benefit plans, market conditions (including the trading price of our stock), and legal
considerations. These factors can change at any time, and there can be no assurance as to the
number of shares we will repurchase or when we will repurchase them.

In 2007, the Board authorized the repurchase of up to 200 million additional shares of our
outstanding common stock. During 2008, we repurchased 52 million shares of our common stock, all
from our employee benefit plans. At December 31, 2008, the total remaining common stock repurchase
authority was approximately 15 million shares.

73  

Historically, our policy has been to repurchase
shares under the  safe harbor  conditions of Rule
10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
including a limitation on the daily volume of
repurchases. Rule 10b-18 imposes an additional daily
volume limitation on share repurchases during a
pending merger or acquisition in which shares of our
stock will constitute some or all of the
consideration. Our management may determine that
during a pending stock merger or acquisition when the
safe harbor would otherwise be available, it is in our
best interest to repurchase shares in excess of this
additional daily volume limitation. In such cases, we
intend to repurchase shares in compliance with the
other conditions of the safe harbor, including the
standing daily volume limitation that applies whether
or not there is a pending stock merger or acquisition.

Our potential sources of capital include retained
earnings and issuances of common and preferred stock.
In 2008, retained earnings decreased $2.4 billion,
predominantly as a result of net income of $2.7
billion less common and preferred dividends and
accretion of $4.6 billion. In 2008, we issued 468.5
million shares in a common stock offering to the
public valued at $12.3 billion. We also issued
approximately 86 million shares of common stock valued
at $2.3 billion under various employee benefit and
director plans (including shares issued for our ESOP
plan) and under our dividend reinvestment and direct
stock purchase programs, and we issued approximately
429 million shares of common stock valued at $14.6
billion for acquisitions, including $14.4 billion (as
of the announcement date of the acquisition) for the
Wachovia acquisition. Wachovia shareholders received
0.1991 shares of Wells Fargo common stock in exchange
for each share of Wachovia common stock they owned,
for a total of 422.7 million shares of Wells Fargo
common stock. Shares of each outstanding series of
Wachovia preferred stock were converted into shares
(or fractional shares) of a corresponding series Wells
Fargo preferred stock having substantially the same
rights and preferences.

On October 28, 2008, at the
request of the United States Department of the
Treasury (Treasury Department) and pursuant to a
Letter Agreement and related Securities Purchase
Agreement dated October 26, 2008 (the Securities
Purchase

Agreements), we issued 25,000 shares of Wells Fargo s
Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock,
Series D without par value, having a liquidation
amount per share equal to $1,000,000, for a total
price of $25 billion. We pay cumulative dividends on
the preferred securities at a rate of 5% per year for
the first five years and thereafter at a rate of 9%
per year. Unless permitted under the provisions of the
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, we may
not redeem the preferred securities during the first
three years except with the proceeds from a
 qualifying equity offering.  After three years, we
may, at our option, redeem the preferred securities at
par value plus accrued and unpaid dividends. The
preferred securities are generally non-voting. Prior
to October 28, 2011, unless we have redeemed the
preferred securities or the Treasury Department has
transferred the preferred securities to a third party,
the consent of the Treasury Department will be
required for us to increase our common stock dividend
or
repurchase our common stock or other equity or capital
securities, other than in connection with benefit
plans consistent with past practice and certain other
circumstances specified in the Securities Purchase
Agreements. The terms of the Treasury Department s
purchase of the preferred securities include certain
restrictions on certain forms of executive
compensation and limits on the tax deductibility of
compensation we pay to executive management. As part
of its purchase of the preferred securities, the
Treasury Department also received warrants to purchase
110,261,688 shares of our common stock at an initial
per share exercise price of $34.01, subject to
customary anti-dilution provisions. The warrants
expire ten years from the issuance date. Both the
preferred securities and warrants will be accounted
for as components of Tier 1 capital.

The Company and each of our subsidiary banks are
subject to various regulatory capital adequacy
requirements administered by the Federal Reserve
Board and the OCC. Risk-based capital guidelines
establish a risk-adjusted ratio relating capital to
different categories of assets and off-balance sheet
exposures. At December 31, 2008, the Company and each
of our subsidiary banks were  well capitalized  under
applicable regulatory capital adequacy guidelines.
See Note 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital
Requirements) to Financial Statements for additional
information.

Comparison of 2007 with 2006 

Our financial results included the following:

Net income in 2007 was $8.06 billion ($2.38 per
share), compared with $8.42 billion ($2.47 per share)
in 2006. Results for 2007 included the impact of a
$1.4 billion (pre tax) credit reserve build ($0.27 per
share) and $203 million of Visa litigation expenses
($0.04 per share), and for 2006 included $95 million
($0.02 per share) of Visa litigation expenses. Despite
the challenging environment in 2007, we had a solid
year and achieved both double-digit top line revenue
growth and positive operating leverage (revenue growth
of 10.4% exceeding expense growth of 9.5%).

The financial services industry faced
unprecedented challenges in 2007. Home values declined
abruptly and sharply, adversely impacting the consumer
lending business of many financial service providers;
credit spreads widened as the capital markets repriced
in many asset classes; price volatility increased and
market liquidity decreased in several sectors of the
capital markets; and, late in the year, economic
growth declined sharply.

We were not immune to these unprecedented
external factors. Our provision for credit losses was
$2.7 billion higher in 2007 than in 2006, reflecting
$1.3 billion in additional provisions for actual
charge-offs that occurred in 2007 and a $1.4 billion
provision to further build reserves for loan losses.

74  

While the $2.7 billion in additional provisions
reduced consolidated net income after tax by 18%,
consolidated full-year earnings per share declined
only 4% to $2.38 per share, a strong overall result
given the external environment and higher credit
costs.

Our results were as strong as they were because
we largely avoided or had negligible exposure to many
of the problem areas that resulted in significant
costs and write-downs at other large financial
institutions and because we continued to build our
diversified franchise throughout 2007, once again
achieving growth rates, operating margins, and returns
at or near the top of the financial services industry,
while at the same time maintaining strong capital
levels and strong liquidity.

We continued to make investments in 2007 by
opening 87 regional banking stores and converting 42
stores acquired from Placer Sierra Bancshares and
National City Bank to our network. We grew our sales
and service force by adding 1,755 team members
(full-time equivalents) in 2007, including 578 retail
platform bankers. In fourth quarter 2007, we completed
the acquisition of Greater Bay Bancorp, with $7.4
billion in assets, adding to our community banking,
commercial insurance brokerage, specialty finance and
trust businesses.

Revenue, the sum of net interest
income and noninterest income, grew 10.4% to a record
$39.4 billion in 2007 from $35.7 billion in 2006. The
breadth and depth of our business model resulted in
very strong and balanced growth in loans, deposits and
fee-based products. Many of our businesses continued
to post double-digit, year-over-year revenue growth,
including business direct, wealth management, credit
and debit card, global remittance services, personal
credit management, home mortgage, asset-based lending,
asset management, specialized financial services and
international.

Among the many products and services
that grew in 2007, we achieved the following results:

average loans grew 12%; 

average core deposits grew
13%; 

assets under management were up 14%; 

mortgage
servicing fees were up 14%; 

insurance premiums were
up 14%; and 

total noninterest income rose 17%,
reflecting the breadth of our cross-sell efforts. 

ROA was 1.55% and ROE was 17.12% in 2007,
compared with 1.73% and 19.52%, respectively, in
2006. Both ROA and ROE were, once again, at or near
the top of our large bank peers.

Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent
basis was $21.1 billion in 2007, up from $20.1
billion a year ago, reflecting strong growth in
earning assets. Average earning assets grew 7% from
2006. Our net interest margin was 4.74% for 2007,
compared with 4.83% in 2006, primarily due to earning
assets increasing at a slightly faster rate than core
deposits.

Noninterest income increased 17% to $18.4
billion in 2007 from $15.7 billion in 2006. The
increase was across our businesses, with double-digit
increases in debit and credit card fees (up 22%),
deposit service charges (up 13%), trust and
investment fees (up 15%), and insurance revenue (up
14%). Capital markets and equity investment results
were also

strong. Mortgage banking noninterest income
increased $822 million (36%) from 2006 because net
servicing fee income increased due to growth in loans
serviced for others.

During 2007, noninterest income was affected by
changes in interest rates, widening credit spreads,
and other credit and housing market conditions,
including:

$(803) million   $479 million write-down
of the mortgage warehouse/pipeline, and $324 million
write-down, primarily due to mortgage loans
repurchased, and an increase in the repurchase reserve
for projected early payment defaults. 

$583 million   increase in mortgage servicing
income reflecting a $571 million reduction in the
value of MSRs due to the decline in mortgage rates
during the year, offset
by a $1.15 billion gain on the financial instruments
hedging the MSRs. The ratio of MSRs to related loans
serviced for others at December 31, 2007, was 1.20%,
the lowest ratio in 10 quarters. 

Noninterest expense was $22.8 billion in 2007, up
9.5% from $20.8 billion in 2006, primarily due to
continued investments in new stores and additional
sales and service-related team members. We grew our
sales and service force by adding 1,755 team members
(full-time equivalents), including 578 retail platform
bankers. The acquisition of Greater Bay Bancorp added
$87 million of expenses in 2007. Despite these
investments and the acquisition of Greater Bay Bancorp
and related integration expense, our efficiency ratio
improved to 57.9% in 2007 from 58.4% in 2006. We
obtained concurrence from the staff of the SEC
regarding our accounting for certain transactions
related to the restructuring of Visa, and recorded a
litigation liability and corresponding expense,
included in operating losses, of $203 million for 2007
and $95 million for 2006. In addition, expenses in
2007 included $433 million in origination costs that,
prior to the adoption of FAS 159, would have been
deferred and recognized as a reduction of net gains on
mortgage loan origination/sales activities at the time
of sale.

During 2007, net charge-offs were $3.54 billion
(1.03% of average total loans), up $1.3 billion from
$2.25 billion (0.73%) during 2006. Commercial and
commercial real estate net charge-offs increased $239
million in 2007 from 2006, of which $162 million was
from loans originated through our Business Direct
channel. Business Direct consists primarily of
unsecured lines of credit to small firms and sole
proprietors that tend to perform in a manner similar
to credit cards. Total wholesale net charge-offs
(excluding business direct) were $103 million (0.08%
of average loans). The remaining balance of commercial
and commercial real estate (other real estate
mortgage, real estate construction and lease
financing) continued to have low net charge-off rates
in 2007.

National Home Equity Group portfolio net
charge-offs totaled $595 million (0.73% of average
loans) in 2007, compared with $110 million (0.14%) in
2006. Because the majority of the Home Equity net
charge-offs were concentrated in the indirect or third
party origination channels, which have a higher
percentage of 90% or greater combined loan-to-value
portfolios, we have discontinued third party
activities not

75  

behind a Wells Fargo first mortgage and
segregated these indirect loans into a liquidating
portfolio. As previously disclosed, while the $11.9
billion of loans in this liquidating portfolio
represented about 3% of total loans outstanding at
December 31, 2007, these loans represented the highest
risk in our $84.2 billion Home Equity portfolio. The
loans in the liquidating portfolio were primarily
sourced through wholesale (brokers) and
correspondents. Additionally, they are largely
concentrated in geographic markets that have
experienced the most abrupt and steepest declines in
housing prices. We continued to provide home equity
financing directly to our customers, but stopped
originating or acquiring new home equity loans through
indirect channels unless they are behind a Wells Fargo
first mortgage and have a combined loan-to-value ratio
lower than 90%. We also experienced increased net
charge-offs in our unsecured consumer portfolios, such
as credit cards and lines of credit, in part due to
growth and in part due to increased economic stress
in households.

Full year 2007 auto portfolio net
charge-offs were $1.02 billion (3.45% of average
loans), compared with $857 million (3.15%) in 2006.
These results were consistent with our expectations
and reflected planned lower growth in originations and
an improvement in collection activities within this
business.

The provision for credit losses was $4.94
billion in 2007, an increase of $2.74 billion from
$2.20 billion in 2006, due to higher net charge-offs
and the 2007 credit reserve build of $1.4 billion,
primarily for higher net loss content that we
estimated in the Home Equity portfolio. The allowance
for credit losses, which consists of the allowance for
loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit
commitments, was $5.52 billion (1.44% of total loans)
at December 31, 2007, compared with $3.96 billion
(1.24%) at December 31, 2006.

At December 31, 2007, total nonaccrual loans were
$2.68 billion (0.70% of total loans) up from $1.67
billion (0.52%) at December 31, 2006. The majority of
the increase in nonaccrual loans was concentrated in
the first mortgage portfolio ($209 million in Wells
Fargo Home Mortgage and $343 million in Wells Fargo
Financial) and was due to the national rise in
mortgage default rates. Total NPAs were $3.87 billion
(1.01% of total loans) at December 31, 2007, compared
with $2.42 billion (0.76%) at December 31, 2006. Due
to illiquid market conditions, we are now holding more
foreclosed properties than we have historically.
Foreclosed assets were $1.18 billion at December 31,
2007, compared with $745 million at December 31, 2006.
Foreclosed assets, a component of total NPAs, included
$649 million and $423 million in residential property
and auto loans, and $535 million and $322 million of
foreclosed real estate securing GNMA loans at December
31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, consistent with
regulatory reporting requirements. The foreclosed real
estate securing GNMA loans of $535 million represented
14 basis points of the ratio of NPAs to loans at
December 31, 2007. Both principal and interest for the
GNMA loans secured by the foreclosed real estate are
collectible because the GNMA loans are insured by the
FHA or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans
Affairs.

The Company and each of its subsidiary banks
remained  well capitalized  under applicable
regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. The ratio of
common stockholders  equity to total assets was 8.28%
at December 31, 2007, compared with 9.51% at December
31, 2006. Our total RBC ratio at December 31, 2007,
was 10.68% and our Tier 1 RBC ratio was 7.59%,
exceeding the minimum regulatory guidelines of 8% and
4%, respectively, for bank holding companies. Our RBC
ratios at December 31, 2006, were 12.49% and 8.93%,
respectively. Our Tier 1 leverage ratios were 6.83%
and 7.88% at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively,
exceeding the minimum regulatory guideline of 3% for
bank holding companies.

Risk Factors 

An investment in the Company involves risk, including
the possibility that the value of the investment could
fall substantially and that dividends or other
distributions on the investment could be reduced or
eliminated. We discuss below and elsewhere in this
Report, as well as in other documents we file with the
SEC, risk factors that could adversely affect our
financial results and condition and the
value of, and return on, an investment in the Company.
We refer you to the Financial Review section and
Financial Statements (and related Notes) in this
Report for more information about credit, interest
rate, market and litigation risks, and to the
 Regulation and Supervision  section of our 2008 Form
10-K for more information about legislative and
regulatory risks. Any factor described below or
elsewhere in this Report or in our 2008 Form 10-K
could by itself, or together with other factors,
adversely affect our financial results and condition.
Refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with
the

SEC in 2009 for material changes to the discussion of
risk factors. There are factors not discussed below or
elsewhere in this Report that could adversely affect
our financial results and condition.

In accordance
with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995, we caution you that one or more of these same
risk factors could cause actual results to differ
significantly from projections or forecasts of our
financial results and condition and expectations for
our operations and business that we make or express in
forward-looking statements in this Report and in
presentations and other Company communications. We
make forward-looking statements when we use words such
as  believe,   expect,   anticipate,   estimate, 
 project,   forecast,   will,   may,   can  and
similar expressions. Do not unduly rely on
forward-looking statements, as actual results could
differ significantly. Forward-looking statements speak
only as of the date made, and we do not

76  

undertake to update them to reflect changes or events
that occur after that date that may affect whether
those forecasts and expectations continue to reflect
management s beliefs or the likelihood that the
forecasts and expectations will be realized.

In this Report we make forward-looking statements that: 

because loans subject to SOP 03-3 have been
written down to the amount estimated to be
collectible, we expect to fully collect the new
carrying value of the loans; 

our 2009 pension expense will increase by about $600 million; 

securities guaranteed against loss by bond insurers
are expected to perform even if the rating agencies
reduce the credit rating of the bond insurers; 

until conditions improve in the residential
real estate and liquidity markets, we will continue to
hold more nonperforming assets on our balance sheet
as it is currently the most economic option available; 

we expect that the amount of nonaccrual loans
will change due to portfolio growth, economic growth,
portfolio seasoning, routine problem loan recognition
and resolution through collections, sales or
charge-offs; 

to the extent the housing market does not
recover, Home Mortgage could continue to have
increased loss severity on repurchases, causing future
increases in the repurchase reserve; 

we believe that the election to measure at fair
value new prime mortgages held for sale and other
interests held will reduce certain timing differences
and better match changes in the value of these assets
with changes in the value of derivatives used as
economic hedges for these assets; 

we expect changes
in the fair value of derivative financial instruments
used to hedge outstanding derivative loan commitments
will fully or partially offset the changes in fair
value of the derivative loan commitments; 

we anticipate making capital expenditures of
approximately $2.8 billion in 2009 for our stores,
relocation and remodeling of our facilities, and
routine replacement of furniture, equipment and
servers; 

we expect that the proceeds from securities
issued in the future will be used for general
corporate purposes; 

we believe the principal and interest on debt
securities held in the securities-available-for-sale
portfolio are fully collectible; 

management believes that the outcome of pending and
threatened legal actions will not have a material
adverse effect on our results of operations or
stockholders  equity; and 

we will not be required to make a contribution in 2009 for the Cash Balance Plan. 

In addition to the above forward-looking
statements, this Report states our beliefs and
expectations about the adequacy of our allowance or
reserve for credit losses at December 31, 2008. There
is no assurance that this allowance or reserve will be
adequate to cover future credit losses, especially if
credit markets and unemployment do not
stabilize. As described below and elsewhere in
this Report and in our 2008 Form 10-K, increases in
loan charge-offs or in the allowance for credit losses
and related provision expense could materially
adversely affect our financial results and condition.

RISKS RELATING TO CURRENT ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS 

Our financial results and condition will be adversely
affected if home prices continue to fall and
unemployment continues to increase.  Significant
declines in home prices over the last year and recent
increases in unemployment have resulted in higher loan
charge-offs and increases in our allowance for credit
losses and related provision expense. The economic
environment and related conditions will directly
affect credit performance. For example, if home prices
continue to fall or unemployment continues to rise we
will likely incur higher than normal charge-offs and
provision expense from increases in our allowance for
credit losses. These conditions are adversely
affecting not only consumer loan performance but also
commercial loans, especially those business borrowers
that rely on the health of industries that are
experiencing high levels of contraction.

Current financial and credit market conditions may
persist or worsen, making it more difficult to access
capital markets on favorable terms.  Over the last
year financial and credit markets have experienced
unprecedented disruption and volatility. These
conditions may continue or even worsen, affecting our
ability to access capital markets on favorable terms.
We may raise additional capital through the issuance
of common stock, which could dilute existing
stockholders, or reduce or eliminate our common stock
dividend to preserve capital or in order to raise
additional capital.

Participation in the Treasury Department s Capital
Purchase Program restricts our ability to raise the
common stock dividend and may result in dilution of
common stockholders.  The U.S. government has taken
action to restore liquidity and stability to financial
and credit markets, including the enactment of the
Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA)
and the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). As part
of TARP, the Treasury Department implemented the
Capital Purchase Program (CPP) to purchase senior
preferred stock from qualifying financial institutions
including Wells Fargo. On October 28, 2008, we issued
preferred securities and a common stock purchase
warrant to the Treasury Department under the CPP.
Prior to October 28, 2011, unless we have redeemed the
preferred securities or the Treasury Department has
transferred the securities to a third party, the
Treasury Department s consent will be required for us
to increase our common stock dividend or repurchase
our common stock other than in connection with benefit
plans consistent with past practice. Under the
anti-dilution provisions included in the terms of the
department s CPP investment, the per share exercise
price of the warrant and the number of shares of our
common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant
will be adjusted upon certain issuances of our common
stock at or below a specified price relative to the
initial exercise price. The exercise of the common
stock purchase warrant could result in material
dilution to existing common stockholders.

Financial institutions that have received
additional Treasury Department investments through the
CPP have been subject to additional conditions,
including the elimination of their common stock
dividend (or reduction to a nominal amount). Although
we do not anticipate a need at this time, there is
no assurance that we may not raise additional capital
through the CPP. This could result in the issuance to
the Treasury Department of additional preferred
securities at dividend rates higher than the preferred
stock issued in October 2008, the issuance of
additional common stock purchase warrants, and even
the issuance of shares of common

77  

stock, which could result in dilution to existing stockholders.

As a condition to an additional CPP investment, we could be
required to eliminate our common stock dividend.

As a participant in the CPP our business activities and
corporate governance may be subject to additional
restrictions and requirements, including requirements
for lending activities and restrictions on
compensation, some possibly with retroactive
application, adopted by Congress, the Treasury
Department or government agencies. See, for example,
the discussion below of the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act of 2009.

For more information, refer
to  Capital Management  in the Financial Review
section of this Report and to the  Regulation and
Supervision  section in our 2008 Form 10-K.

The recent economic stimulus legislation imposes new
compensation restrictions that could adversely affect
our ability to recruit and retain key employees.  The
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
includes extensive new restrictions on our ability to
pay retention awards, bonuses and other incentive
compensation during the period in which we have any
outstanding obligation arising from financial
assistance provided to us under the TARP. Many of the
restrictions are not limited to our senior executives
and cover other employees whose contributions to
revenue and performance can be significant. The
limitations may adversely affect our ability to
recruit and retain these key employees, especially if
we are competing for management talent against U.S.
and non-U.S. institutions that are not subject to the
same restrictions. For more information, refer to the
 Regulation and Supervision  section in our 2008 Form
10-K.

Bankruptcy laws may be changed to allow mortgage
 cram-downs,  or court-ordered modifications to our
mortgage loans including the reduction of principal
balances.  Under current bankruptcy laws, courts
cannot force a modification of mortgage and home
equity loans secured by primary residences. In
response to the current financial crisis, legislation
has been proposed to allow mortgage loan  cram-downs, 
which would empower courts to modify the terms of
mortgage and home equity loans including to reduce the
principal amount to reflect lower underlying property
values. This could result in our writing down the
value of our mortgage and home equity loans to reflect
their lower loan values. There is also risk that home
equity loans in a second lien position (i.e., behind a
mortgage) could experience significantly higher losses
to the extent they become unsecured as a result of a
cram-down. The availability of principal reductions or
other mortgage loan modifications could make
bankruptcy a more attractive option for troubled
borrowers, leading to increased bankruptcy filings and
accelerated defaults.

RISKS RELATING TO THE WACHOVIA MERGER 

Our financial results and condition could be adversely
affected if we fail to realize the expected benefits
of the Wachovia merger or it takes longer than
expected to realize those benefits.  The merger with
Wachovia Corporation will require the integration of
the businesses of Wachovia and Wells Fargo. The
integration process may result in the loss of key
employees, the disruption of ongoing businesses and
the loss of customers and their business and deposits.
It may also divert management attention and resources
from other operations and limit the Company s ability

to pursue other acquisitions. There is
no assurance that we will realize the cost savings and
other financial benefits of the merger when and in the
amounts expected.

We may incur losses on loans, securities and other
acquired assets of Wachovia that are materially
greater than reflected in our preliminary fair value
adjustments.  We accounted for the Wachovia merger
under the purchase method of accounting, recording
the acquired assets and liabilities of Wachovia at
fair value based on preliminary purchase accounting
adjustments. Under purchase accounting, we have
until one year after the merger to finalize the fair
value adjustments, meaning we could materially
adjust until then the preliminary fair value
estimates of Wachovia s assets and liabilities based
on new or updated information.

Under SOP 03-3, we recorded at fair value all
credit-impaired loans acquired in the merger based on
the present value of their expected cash flows. We
estimated cash flows using internal credit, interest
rate and prepayment risk models using assumptions
about matters that are inherently uncertain. We may
not realize the estimated cash flows or fair value of
these loans. In addition, although the difference
between the pre-merger carrying value of the
credit-impaired loans and their expected cash
flows the  nonaccretable difference  is available
to absorb future charge-offs, we may be required to
increase our allowance for credit losses and related
provision expense because of subsequent additional
credit deterioration in these loans.

For more
information, refer to  Overview  and  Critical
Accounting Policies   Acquired Loans Accounted for
Under SOP 03-3  in this Report.

GENERAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS 

Higher charge-offs and worsening credit conditions
could require us to increase our allowance for credit
losses through a charge to earnings.  When we loan
money or commit to loan money we incur credit risk, or
the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their
loans. We reserve for credit losses by establishing an
allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of
this allowance is based on our assessment of credit
losses inherent in our loan portfolio (including
unfunded credit commitments). The process for
determining the amount of the allowance is critical to
our financial results and condition. It requires
difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the
future, including forecasts of economic or market
conditions that might impair the ability of our
borrowers to repay their loans.

We might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and
have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved.
We might increase the allowance because of changing
economic conditions, including falling home prices and
higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes
in borrower behavior. As an example, we are finding
that borrowers are increasingly less likely to
continue making payments on their real estate-secured
loans if the value of the real estate is less than
what they owe, even if they are still financially able
to make the payments.

While we believe that our allowance for credit
losses was adequate at December 31, 2008, there is no
assurance that it will be sufficient to cover future
credit losses, especially if housing and employment
conditions worsen. We may be required to build
reserves in 2009, thus reducing earnings.

78  

For more information, refer to  Critical
Accounting Policies  Allowance for Credit Losses 
and  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management
Process  in the Financial Review section of this
Report.

We may have more credit risk and higher credit losses
to the extent our loans are concentrated by loan type,
industry segment, borrower type, or location of the
borrower or collateral.  Our credit risk and credit
losses can increase if our loans are concentrated to
borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or
to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or
disproportionately affected by economic or market
conditions. We experienced the effect of concentration
risk in 2007 and 2008 when we incurred greater than
expected losses in our Home Equity loan portfolio due
to a housing slowdown and greater than expected
deterioration in residential real estate values in
many markets, including the Central Valley California
market and several Southern California metropolitan
statistical areas. As California is our largest
banking state in terms of loans and deposits,
continued deterioration in real estate values and
underlying economic conditions in those markets or
elsewhere in California could result in materially
higher credit losses. As a result of the Wachovia
merger, we have increased our exposure to California,
as well as to Arizona and Florida, two states that
have also recently suffered significant declines in
home values. Continued deterioration in housing
conditions and real estate values in these states and
generally across the country could result in
materially higher credit losses.

For more information, refer to  Risk Management
  Credit Risk Management Process   Loan Portfolio
Concentrations  in the Financial Review section of
this Report and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit
Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Loss of customer deposits and market illiquidity could
increase our funding costs.  We rely on bank deposits
to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the
loans we make. We compete with banks and other
financial services companies for deposits. If our
competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits our
funding costs may increase, either because we raise
our rates to avoid losing deposits or because we lose
deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of
funding. Higher funding costs reduce our net interest
margin and net interest income. As discussed above,
the integration of Wells Fargo and Wachovia may result
in the loss of customer deposits.

We sell most of the
mortgage loans we originate in order to reduce our
credit risk and provide funding for additional loans.
We rely on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to purchase
loans that meet their conforming loan requirements and
on other capital markets investors to purchase loans
that do not meet those requirements referred to as
 nonconforming  loans. Since 2007, investor demand for
nonconforming loans has fallen sharply, increasing
credit spreads and reducing the liquidity for those
loans. In response to the reduced liquidity in the
capital markets, we may retain more nonconforming
loans. When we retain a loan not only do we keep the
credit risk of the loan but we also do not receive any
sale proceeds that could be used to generate new
loans. Continued lack of liquidity could limit our
ability to fund and thus originate new mortgage
loans, reducing the fees we earn from originating and
servicing loans. In addition, we cannot assure that
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will not materially limit

their purchases of conforming loans due to capital
constraints, or changes in criteria for conforming
loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower
eligibility).

Changes in interest rates could reduce our net
interest income and earnings.  Our net interest income
is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities and
other assets we hold less the interest we pay on our
deposits, long-term and short-term debt, and other
liabilities. Net interest income is a measure of both
our net interest margin the difference between the
yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we
pay for deposits
and our other sources of funding and the amount of
earning assets we hold. Changes in either our net
interest margin or the amount of earning assets we
hold could affect our net interest income and our
earnings.

Changes in interest rates can affect our net
interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our
assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same
direction in response to changes in interest rates,
one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing
our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our
liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our
assets, so they may adjust faster in response to
changes in interest rates. When interest rates rise,
our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we
earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to
contract until the yield catches up.

Changes in the
slope of the  yield curve  or the spread between
short-term and long-term interest rates could also
reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield
curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are
lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities
tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when
the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could
experience pressure on our net interest margin as our
cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can
earn on our assets.

The interest we earn on our loans
may be tied to U.S.-denominated interest rates such as
the federal funds rate while the interest we pay on
our debt may be based on international rates such as
LIBOR. If the federal funds rate were to fall without
a corresponding decrease in LIBOR, we might earn less
on our loans without any offsetting decrease in our
funding costs. This could lower our net interest
margin and our net interest income.

We assess our interest rate risk by estimating
the effect on our earnings under various scenarios
that differ based on assumptions about the direction,
magnitude and speed of interest rate changes and the
slope of the yield curve. We hedge some of that
interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives. We
also rely on the  natural hedge  that our mortgage
loan originations and servicing rights can provide.

We
do not hedge all of our interest rate risk. There is
always the risk that changes in interest rates could
reduce our net interest income and our earnings in
material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn
out to be materially different than what we assumed.
For example, if interest rates rise or fall faster
than we assumed or the slope of the yield curve
changes, we may incur significant losses on debt
securities we hold as investments. To reduce our
interest rate risk, we may rebalance our investment
and loan portfolios, refinance our debt and take other
strategic actions. We may incur losses when we take
such actions.

For more information, refer to  Risk
Management   Asset/ Liability and Market Risk
Management   Interest Rate Risk  in the Financial
Review section of this Report.

79  

Changes in interest rates could also reduce the value
of our mortgage servicing rights and mortgages held
for sale, reducing our earnings.  We have a sizeable
portfolio of mortgage servicing rights. A mortgage
servicing right (MSR) is the right to service a
mortgage loan collect principal, interest and escrow
amounts for a fee. We acquire MSRs when we keep the
servicing rights after we sell or securitize the loans
we have originated or when we purchase the servicing
rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders.
We initially measure and carry our residential MSRs
using the fair value measurement method. Fair value is
the present value of estimated future net servicing
income, calculated based on a number of variables,
including assumptions about the likelihood of
prepayment by borrowers.

Changes in interest rates can
affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value.
When interest rates fall, borrowers are more likely to
prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a
lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases,
the fair value of our MSRs can decrease. Each quarter
we evaluate the fair value of our MSRs, and any
decrease in fair value reduces earnings in the period
in which the decrease occurs.

We measure at fair value
new prime mortgages held for sale (MHFS) for which an
active secondary market and readily available market
prices exist. We also measure at fair value certain
other interests we hold related to residential loan
sales and securitizations. Similar to other
interest-bearing securities, the value of these MHFS
and other interests may be negatively affected by
changes in interest rates. For example, if market
interest rates increase relative to the yield on these
MHFS and other interests, their fair value may fall.
We may not hedge this risk, and even if we do hedge
the risk with derivatives and other instruments we may
still incur significant losses from changes in the
value of these MHFS and other interests or from
changes in the value of the hedging instruments.

For more information, refer to  Critical
Accounting Policies  and  Risk Management  
Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management   Mortgage
Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  in the
Financial Review section of this Report.

Our mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from
quarter to quarter.  We earn revenue from fees we
receive for originating mortgage loans and for
servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, the demand
for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue
we receive from loan originations. At the same time,
revenue from our MSRs can increase through increases
in fair value. When rates fall, mortgage originations
tend to increase and the value of our MSRs tends to
decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect.
Even though they can act as a  natural hedge,  the
hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For
example, the negative effect on revenue from a
decrease in the fair value of residential MSRs is
immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from
more originations and the MSRs relating to the new
loans would accrue over time. It is also possible
that, because of the recession and deteriorating
housing market, even if interest rates were to fall,
mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in
mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the
decrease in the MSRs value caused by the lower rates.

We typically use derivatives and other
instruments to hedge our mortgage banking interest
rate risk. We generally do not hedge all of our risk,
and the fact that we attempt to hedge any of the risk
does not mean we will be successful. Hedging is a
complex process, requiring sophisticated models and
constant moni-

toring, and is not a perfect science. We
may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury
rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that may not perfectly
correlate with the value or income being hedged. We
could incur significant losses from our hedging
activities. There may be periods where we elect
not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge
mortgage banking interest rate risk.

For more
information, refer to  Risk Management
 Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management  
Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  in the
Financial Review section of this Report.

We could recognize other-than-temporary impairment on
securities held in our available-for-sale portfolio,
including perpetual preferred stock, if economic and
market conditions do not improve.  Our
securities-available-for-sale portfolio had gross
unrealized losses of $12.2 billion at December 31,
2008. We analyze securities held in our
available-for-sale portfolio for other-than-temporary
impairment on a quarterly basis. The process for
determining whether impairment is other than temporary
requires difficult, subjective judgments about the
future financial performance of the issuer and any
collateral underlying the security in order to assess
the probability of receiving all contractual principal
and interest payments on the security. Because of
changing economic and market conditions affecting
issuers and the performance of the underlying
collateral, we may be required to recognize
other-than-temporary impairment in future periods,
thus reducing earnings.

For more information, refer
to  Overview   Current Accounting Developments, 
 Balance Sheet Analysis   Securities Available for
Sale  and Note 5 (Securities Available for Sale) to
Financial Statements in this Report.

Financial difficulties or credit downgrades of
mortgage and bond insurers may negatively affect our
servicing and investment portfolios.  Our servicing
portfolio includes certain mortgage loans that carry
some level of insurance from one or more mortgage
insurance companies. To the extent that any of these
companies experience financial difficulties or credit
downgrades, we may be required, as servicer of the
insured loan on behalf of the investor, to obtain
replacement coverage with another provider, possibly
at a higher cost than current coverage. We may be
responsible for some or all of the incremental cost of
the new coverage for certain loans depending on the
terms of our servicing agreement with the investor and
other circumstances. Similarly, some of the mortgage
loans we hold for investment or for sale carry
mortgage insurance. If a mortgage insurer is unable to
meet its credit obligations with respect to an insured
loan, we might incur higher credit losses if
replacement coverage is not obtained. We also have
investments in municipal bonds that are guaranteed
against loss by bond insurers. The value of these
bonds and the payment of principal and interest on
them may be negatively affected by financial
difficulties or credit downgrades experienced by the
bond insurers.

For more information, refer to  Earnings
Performance  Balance Sheet Analysis   Securities
Available for Sale  and  Risk Management   Credit
Risk Management Process  in the Financial Review
section of this Report.

Our ability to grow revenue and earnings will suffer
if we are unable to sell more products to customers. 
Selling more products to our
customers  cross-selling  is the cornerstone of our
business model and key to our ability to grow revenue
and earn-

80   

ings. Many of our competitors also focus on
cross-selling, especially in retail banking and
mortgage lending. This can limit our ability to sell
more products to our customers or put pressure on us
to sell our products at lower prices, reducing our
net interest income and revenue from our fee-based
products. It could also affect our ability to keep
existing customers. New technologies could require us
to spend more to modify or adapt our products to
attract and retain customers. Increasing our
cross-sell ratio 
or the average number of products sold to existing
customers may become more challenging, especially
given that our cross-sell ratio is already high, and
we might not attain our goal of selling an average of
eight products to each customer.

The economic recession could reduce demand for our
products and services and lead to lower revenue and
lower earnings.  We earn revenue from the interest and
fees we charge on the loans and other products and
services we sell. As the economy worsens and consumer
and business spending decreases and unemployment
rises, the demand for those products and services can
fall, reducing our interest and fee income and our
earnings. These same conditions can also hurt the
ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, causing
us to incur higher credit losses.

Changes in stock market prices could reduce fee
income from our brokerage and asset management
businesses.  We earn fee income from managing assets
for others and providing brokerage services. Because
investment management fees are often based on the
value of assets under management, a fall in the
market prices of those assets could reduce our fee
income. Changes in stock market prices could affect
the trading activity of investors, reducing
commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage
business. As a result of the Wachovia merger, a
greater percentage of our revenue will depend on our
brokerage services business.

For more information, refer to  Risk Management
 Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management  
Market Risk  Equity Markets  in the Financial
Review section of this Report.

We may elect to provide capital support to our mutual
funds relating to investments in structured credit
products.  Our money market mutual funds are allowed
to hold investments in structured investment vehicles
(SIVs) in accordance with approved investment
parameters for the respective funds and, therefore, we
may have indirect exposure to collateralized debt
obligations (CDOs). Although we generally are not
responsible for investment losses incurred by our
mutual funds, we may from time to time elect to
provide support to a fund even though we are not
contractually obligated to do so. For example, in
February 2008, to maintain an investment rating of AAA
for certain non-government money market mutual funds,
we elected to enter into a capital support agreement
for up to $130 million related to one SIV held by
those funds.

For more information, refer to Note 8
(Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities) to
Financial Statements in this Report.

Our bank customers could take their money out of the
bank and put it in alternative investments, causing
us to lose a lower cost source of funding.  Checking
and savings account balances and other forms of
customer deposits can decrease when customers
perceive alternative investments, such as the stock
market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff.
When customers move money out of bank deposits and
into other investments, we can lose a relatively low
cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs
and reducing our net interest income.

Our venture capital business can also be volatile
from quarter to quarter.  Certain of our venture
capital businesses are carried under the cost or
equity method, and others (e.g., principal
investments) are carried at fair value with unrealized
gains and losses reflected in earnings. Our venture
capital investments tend to be in technology and
other volatile
industries, so the value of our public and private
equity portfolios can fluctuate widely. Earnings from
our venture capital investments can be volatile and
hard to predict and can have a significant effect on
our earnings from period to period. When, and if, we
recognize gains can depend on a number of factors,
including general economic conditions, the prospects
of the companies in which we invest, when these
companies go public, the size of our position
relative to the public float, and whether we are
subject to any resale restrictions.

Our venture
capital investments could result in significant
losses, either other-than-temporary impairment losses
for those investments carried under the cost or
equity method or mark-to-market losses for principal
investments. Our assessment for other-than-temporary
impairment is based on a number of factors, including
the then current market value of each investment
compared to its carrying value. If we determine there
is other-than-temporary impairment for an investment,
we will write-down the carrying value of the
investment, resulting in a charge to earnings. The
amount of this charge could be significant. Further,
our principal investing portfolio could incur
significant mark-to-market losses especially if these
investments have been written up because of higher
market prices.

For more information, refer to  Risk Management
 Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management  
Market Risk  Equity Markets  in the Financial
Review section of this Report.

We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for
revenue, and federal and state law can limit those
dividends.  Wells Fargo   Company, the parent holding
company, is a separate and distinct legal entity from
its subsidiaries. It receives a significant portion of
its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. We
use these dividends to pay dividends on our common and
preferred stock and interest and principal on our
debt. Federal and state laws limit the amount of
dividends that our bank and some of our nonbank
subsidiaries may pay to us. Also, our right to
participate in a distribution of assets upon a
subsidiary s liquidation or reorganization is subject
to the prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors.

For
more information, refer to  Regulation and Supervision
 Dividend Restrictions  and    Holding Company
Structure  in our 2008 Form 10-K and to Notes 3 (Cash,
Loan and Dividend Restrictions) and 26 (Regulatory and
Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements
in this Report.

Changes in accounting policies or accounting
standards, and changes in how accounting standards are
interpreted or applied, could materially affect how we
report our financial results and condition.  Our
accounting policies are fundamental to determining and
understanding our financial results and condition.
Some of these policies require use of estimates and
assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or
liabilities and financial results. Six of our
accounting policies are critical because they require
management to make difficult, subjective and complex
judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain
and because it is likely that materially different
amounts would be reported under different conditions
or using different assumptions. For a description of
these policies, refer to  Critical

81   

Accounting Policies  in the Financial Review section
of this Report.

From time to time the FASB and the SEC
change the financial accounting and reporting
standards that govern the preparation of our external
financial statements. In addition, accounting standard
setters and those who interpret the accounting
standards (such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators
and our outside auditors) may change or even
reverse their previous interpretations or positions on
how these standards should be applied. Changes in
financial accounting and reporting standards and
changes in current interpretations may be beyond our
control, can be hard to predict and could materially
impact how we report our financial results and
condition. We could be required to apply a new or
revised standard retroactively or apply an existing
standard differently, also retroactively, in each case
resulting in our potentially restating prior period
financial statements in material amounts.

Acquisitions could reduce our stock price upon
announcement and reduce our earnings if we overpay or
have difficulty integrating them.  We regularly
explore opportunities to acquire companies in the
financial services industry. We cannot predict the
frequency, size or timing of our acquisitions, and we
typically do not comment publicly on a possible
acquisition until we have signed a definitive
agreement. When we do announce an acquisition, our
stock price may fall depending on the size of the
acquisition, the purchase price and the potential
dilution to existing stockholders. It is also possible
that an acquisition could dilute earnings per share.

We generally must receive federal regulatory approval
before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company.
In deciding whether to approve a proposed bank
acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider,
among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on
competition, financial condition, and future prospects
including current and projected capital ratios and
levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of
management and record of compliance with laws and
regulations, the convenience and needs of the
communities to be served, including the acquiring
institution s record of compliance under the Community
Reinvestment Act, and the effectiveness of the
acquiring institution in combating money laundering.
Also, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what
terms and conditions, any required regulatory
approvals will be granted. We might be required to
sell banks, branches and/or business units as a
condition to receiving regulatory approval.

Difficulty
in integrating an acquired company may cause us not to
realize expected revenue increases, cost savings,
increases in geographic or product presence, and other
projected benefits from the acquisition. The
integration could result in higher than expected
deposit attrition (run-off), loss of key employees,
disruption of our business or the business of the
acquired company, or otherwise harm our ability to
retain customers and employees or achieve the
anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Time and
resources spent on integration may also impair our
ability to grow our existing businesses. Also, the
negative effect of any divestitures required by
regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business
combinations may be greater than expected.

Federal and state regulations can restrict our business, and non-
compliance could result in penalties, litigation and
damage to our reputation.  Our parent company, our
subsidiary banks and many of our nonbank subsidiaries
are heavily regulated at the federal and/or state
levels. This regulation is to protect depositors,
federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the
banking system as a whole, not our stockholders.
Federal and state regulations can significantly
restrict our businesses, and we could be fined or
otherwise penalized if we are found to be out of
compliance.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
(Sarbanes-Oxley) limits the types of non-audit
services our outside auditors may provide to us in
order to preserve their independence from us. If our
auditors were found not to be
 independent  of us under SEC rules, we could be
required to engage new auditors and file new financial
statements and audit reports with the SEC. We could be
out of compliance with SEC rules until new financial
statements and audit reports were filed, limiting our
ability to raise capital and resulting in other
adverse consequences.

Sarbanes-Oxley also requires our
management to evaluate the Company s disclosure
controls and procedures and its internal control over
financial reporting and requires our auditors to issue
a report on our internal control over financial
reporting. We are required to disclose, in our annual
report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, the existence
of any  material weaknesses  in our internal control.
We cannot assure that we will not find one or more
material weaknesses as of the end of any given year,
nor can we predict the effect on our stock price of
disclosure of a material weakness.

The Patriot Act,
which was enacted in the wake of the September 2001
terrorist attacks, requires us to implement new or
revised policies and procedures relating to anti money
laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, and
currency transaction reporting and due diligence on
customers. The Patriot Act also requires federal bank
regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an
applicant in combating money laundering in determining
whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition.

A
number of states have recently challenged the position
of the OCC as the sole regulator of national banks and
their subsidiaries. If these challenges are successful
or if Congress acts to give greater effect to state
regulation, the impact on us could be significant, not
only because of the potential additional restrictions
on our businesses but also from having to comply with
potentially 50 different sets of regulations.

From time to time Congress considers legislation
that could significantly change our regulatory
environment, potentially increasing our cost of doing
business, limiting the activities we may pursue or
affecting the competitive balance among banks, savings
associations, credit unions, and other financial
institutions. As an example, our business model
depends on sharing information among the family of
Wells Fargo businesses to better satisfy our
customers  needs. Laws that restrict the ability of
our companies to share information about customers
could limit our ability to cross-sell products and
services, reducing our revenue and earnings. Federal
financial regulators have issued regulations under the
Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act which have
the effect of increasing the length of the waiting
period, after privacy disclosures are provided to new
customers, before information can be shared among
Wells Fargo companies for the purpose of cross-selling
Wells Fargo s products and services. This may result
in certain cross-sell programs being less effective
than they have been in the past.

82   

For more information, refer to  Regulation and
Supervision  in our 2008 Form 10-K and to  Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in
this Report.

We may incur fines, penalties and other negative
consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even
inadvertent or unintentional violations.  We maintain
systems and procedures designed to ensure that we
comply with applicable laws and regulations. However,
some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the
imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance
even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or
unintentional and even though there was in place at
the time systems and procedures designed to ensure
compliance. For example, we are subject to regulations
issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC)
that prohibit financial institutions from
participating in the transfer of property belonging to
the governments of certain foreign countries and
designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may
impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional
violations even if reasonable processes are in place
to prevent the violations. Therefore, the
establishment and maintenance of systems and
procedures reasonably designed to ensure compliance
cannot guarantee that we will be able to avoid a fine
or penalty for noncompliance. For example, in April
2003 and January 2005 OFAC reported settlements with
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. These settlements related to
transactions involving inadvertent acts or human error
alleged to have violated OFAC regulations. There may
be other negative consequences resulting from a
finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on
certain activities. Such a finding may also damage our
reputation (see below) and could restrict the ability
of institutional investment managers to invest in our
securities.

Negative publicity could damage our reputation. 
Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and
capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in
our business. Negative public opinion could adversely
affect our ability to keep and attract customers and
expose us to adverse legal and regulatory
consequences. Negative public opinion could result
from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of
activities, including lending practices, corporate
governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and
acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate
protection of customer information, and from actions
taken by government regulators and community
organizations in response to that conduct. Because we
conduct most of our businesses under the  Wells Fargo 
brand, negative public opinion about one business
could affect our other businesses.

We depend on the accuracy and completeness of
information about customers and counterparties.  In
deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other
transactions, we rely on the accuracy and completeness
of information about our customers, including
financial statements and other financial information
and reports of independent auditors. For example, in
deciding whether to extend credit, we may assume that
a customer s audited financial statements conform with
U.S. GAAP and present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the customer. We also may
rely on the audit report covering those financial
statements. If that information is incorrect or
incomplete, we may incur credit losses or other
charges to earnings.

We rely on others to help us with our operations.  We
rely on outside vendors to provide key components of
our business operations such as internet connections
and network access. Disruptions in communication
services provided by a vendor or any failure of a
vendor to handle current or higher volumes of use
could hurt our ability to deliver products and
services to our customers and otherwise to conduct
our business. Financial or
operational difficulties of an outside vendor could
also hurt our operations if those difficulties
interfere with the vendor s ability to serve us.

Federal Reserve Board policies can significantly
impact business and economic conditions and our
financial results and condition. 
The Federal Reserve Board (FRB) regulates the supply
of money and credit in the United States. Its
policies determine in large part our cost of funds
for lending and investing and the return we earn on
those loans and investments, both of which affect our
net interest margin. They also can materially affect
the value of financial instruments we hold, such as
debt securities and MSRs. Its policies also can
affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk
that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in
FRB policies are beyond our control and can be hard
to predict.

Risks Relating to Legal Proceedings  Wells Fargo and
some of its subsidiaries are involved in judicial,
regulatory and arbitration proceedings concerning
matters arising from our business activities. Although
we believe we have a meritorious defense in all
significant litigation pending against us, there can
be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome. We
establish reserves for legal claims when payments
associated with the claims become probable and the
costs can be reasonably estimated. We may still incur
legal costs for a matter even if we have not
established a reserve. In addition, the actual cost of
resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher
than any amounts reserved for that matter. The
ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding,
depending on the remedy sought and granted, could
materially adversely affect our results of operations
and financial condition. For more information, refer
to Note 15 (Guarantees and Legal Actions) to Financial
Statements in this Report.

Risks Affecting Our Stock Price  Our stock price can
fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors,
in addition to those described above, including:

general business and economic conditions; 

recommendations by securities analysts; 

new technology used, or services offered, by our competitors; 

operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; 

news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; 

changes in government regulations; 

natural disasters; and 

geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. 

83  

Controls and Procedures  

Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

As required by SEC rules, the Company s management evaluated the effectiveness, as of December 31,
2008, of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures. The Company s chief executive officer
and chief financial officer participated in the evaluation. Based on this evaluation, the Company s
chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that the Company s disclosure
controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2008.

Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) promulgated under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
Company s principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the Company s board
of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and includes those
policies and procedures that:

pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of assets of the Company; 

provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being
made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and 

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition,
use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. No change occurred during
any quarter in 2008 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Company s internal control over financial reporting. Management s report on internal control over
financial reporting is set forth below, and should be read with these limitations in mind.

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

The Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control
over financial reporting for the Company. Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, using the criteria set forth by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework.  Based on this assessment, management concluded that as of December 31, 2008,
the Company s internal control over financial reporting was effective.

KPMG LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the Company s
financial statements included in this Annual Report, issued an audit report on the Company s
internal control over financial reporting. KPMG s audit report appears on the following page.

84  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Wells Fargo   Company:

We have audited Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries  ( the Company ) internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO). The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed
risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have
a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  issued by COSO.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of December 31, 2008 and
2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders  equity and
comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December
31, 2008, and our report dated February 23, 2009, expressed an unqualified opinion on those
consolidated financial statements.

San Francisco, California  
February 23, 2009

85  

Financial Statements  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

86  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 

(1) 
       
     Effective December 31, 2008, Wells Fargo   Company acquired Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia).
Wachovia s assets and liabilities are included in the consolidated balance sheet at their
respective acquisition date fair values. 

87  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

88  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

89  

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries 

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 

90  

Notes to Financial Statements  

Note 1:     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Wells Fargo   Company is a diversified financial
services company. We provide banking, insurance,
investments, mortgage banking, investment banking,
retail banking, brokerage, and consumer finance
through banking stores, the internet and other
distribution channels to consumers, businesses and
institutions in all 50 states of the U.S. and in other
countries. In this Annual Report, when we refer to
 the Company,   we,   our  or  us  we mean Wells Fargo
  Company and Subsidiaries (consolidated). Wells Fargo
  Company (the Parent) is a financial holding company
and a bank holding company. We also hold a majority
interest in a retail brokerage subsidiary and a real
estate investment trust, which has publicly traded
preferred stock outstanding.

Our accounting and reporting policies conform
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP) and practices in the financial services
industry. To prepare the financial statements in
conformity with GAAP, management must make estimates
based on assumptions about future economic and market
conditions (for example, unemployment, market
liquidity, real estate prices, etc.) that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date
of the financial statements and income and expenses
during the reporting period and the related
disclosures. Although our estimates contemplate
current conditions and how we expect them to change in
the future, it is reasonably possible that in 2009
actual conditions could be worse than anticipated in
those estimates, which could materially affect our
results of operations and financial condition.
Management has made significant estimates in several
areas, including the evaluation of
other-than-temporary impairment on investment
securities (Note 5), allowance for credit losses and
loans accounted for under American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of
Position 03-3,  Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt
Securities Acquired in a Transfer  (SOP 03-3) (Note 6),
valuing residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs)
(Notes 8 and 9) and financial instruments (Note 17),
pension accounting (Note 20) and income taxes (Note
21). Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Among other effects, such changes could result in
future impairments of investment securities,
establishment of allowance for loan losses, as well as
increased pension expense.

On October 3, 2008, we signed a definitive merger
agreement with Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia) and the
merger was consummated on December 31, 2008.
Wachovia s assets and liabilities are included in the
consolidated balance sheet at their respective
acquisition date fair values. Because the acquisition
was completed at the end of 2008, Wachovia s results
of operations are not included in the income
statement. The accounting policies of Wachovia have
been conformed to those of Wells Fargo as described
herein.

In the Financial Statements and related Notes,
all common share and per share disclosures reflect a
two-for-one stock split in the form of a 100% stock
dividend distributed August 11, 2006.

On January 1, 2008, we adopted the
following new accounting pronouncements:

FSP FIN 39-1   Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) Staff Position on
Interpretation No. 39,
 Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39;  

EITF 06-4   Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF)
Issue No. 06-4,  Accounting for Deferred
Compensation and Postretirement Benefit Aspects
of Endorsement Split-Dollar Life Insurance
Arrangements;  

EITF 06-10   EITF Issue No. 06-10,
 Accounting for Collateral Assignment
Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements; 
and 

SAB 109   Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 109,
 Written Loan Commitments Recorded at Fair Value
Through Earnings.  

On July 1, 2008, we adopted the following new
accounting pronouncement:

FSP FAS 157-3   FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157-3,
 Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset
When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active.  

We adopted the following new accounting
pronouncements, which were effective for year-end
2008 reporting:

On April 30, 2007, the FASB issued FSP FIN 39-1,
which amends Interpretation No. 39 to permit a
reporting entity to offset the right to reclaim cash
collateral (a receivable), or the obligation to return
cash collateral (a payable), against derivative
instruments executed with the same counterparty under
the same master netting arrangement. The provisions of
this FSP are effective for the year beginning on
January 1, 2008, with early adoption permitted. We
adopted FSP FIN 39-1 on January 1, 2008, and it did
not have a material effect on our consolidated
financial statements.

On September 20, 2006, the FASB ratified the
consensus reached by the EITF at its September 7,
2006, meeting with respect to EITF 06-4. On March 28,
2007, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the
EITF at its March 15, 2007, meeting with respect to
EITF 06-10. These pronouncements require that for
endorsement split-dollar life insurance arrangements
and collateral split-dollar life insurance
arrangements where the employee is provided benefits
in postretirement periods, the employer should
recognize the cost of providing that insurance over
the employee s service period by accruing a liability
for the benefit obligation. Additionally, for
collateral assignment split-dollar life insurance
arrangements, an employer is required to recognize
and measure an asset based

91  

upon the nature and
substance of the agreement. EITF 06-4 and EITF 06-10
are effective for the year beginning on January 1,
2008, with early adoption permitted. We adopted EITF
06-4 and EITF 06-10 on January 1, 2008, and reduced
beginning retained earnings for 2008 by $20 million
(after tax), primarily related to split-dollar life
insurance arrangements from the acquisition of
Greater Bay Bancorp.

On November 5, 2007, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) issued SAB 109, which provides the
staff s views on the accounting for written loan
commitments recorded at fair value under GAAP. To
make the staff s views consistent with current
authoritative accounting guidance, SAB 109 revises
and rescinds portions of SAB 105,  Application of
Accounting Principles to Loan Commitments. 
Specifically, SAB 109 states the expected net future
cash flows associated with the servicing of a loan
should be included in the measurement of all written
loan commitments that are accounted for at fair value
through earnings. The provisions of SAB 109, which we
adopted on January 1, 2008, are applicable to written
loan commitments recorded at fair value that are
entered into beginning on or after January 1, 2008.
The implementation of SAB 109 did not have a material
impact on our first quarter 2008 results or the
valuation of our loan commitments.

On October 10, 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS
157-3, which clarifies the application of FAS 157,
 Fair Value Measurements,  in an inactive market and
illustrates how an entity would determine fair value
when the market for a financial asset is not active.
The FSP states that an entity should not automatically
conclude that a particular transaction price is
determinative of fair value. In a dislocated market,
judgment is required to evaluate whether individual
transactions are forced liquidations or distressed
sales. When relevant observable market information is
not available, a valuation approach that incorporates
management s judgments about the assumptions that
market participants would use in pricing the asset in
a current sale transaction is acceptable. The FSP also
indicates that quotes from brokers or pricing services
may be relevant inputs when measuring fair value, but
are not necessarily determinative in the absence of an
active market for the asset. In weighing a broker
quote as an input to a fair value measurement, an
entity should place less reliance on quotes that do
not reflect the result of market transactions.
Further, the nature of the quote (for example, whether
the quote is an indicative price or a binding offer)
should be considered when weighing the available
evidence. The FSP was effective immediately and
applied to prior periods for which financial
statements have not been issued, including interim or
annual periods ending on or before September 30, 2008.
We adopted the FSP prospectively, beginning July 1,
2008. The adoption of the FSP did not have a material
impact on our consolidated financial results or fair
value determinations.

On December 11, 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS
140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8. This FSP is intended to
improve disclosures about transfers of financial
assets and continuing involvement with both
qualifying special purpose entities (QSPEs)

and
variable interest entities (VIEs). The
FSP requires qualitative and quantitative
disclosures surrounding the nature of a company s
continuing involvement with QSPEs and VIEs, the
carrying amount and classification of related assets
and liabilities, including the nature of any
restrictions on those assets and liabilities;
contractual or non-contractual support provided to
either QSPEs or VIEs; and a company s maximum
exposure to loss related to these activities. This
FSP amends FAS 140,  Accounting for Transfers and
Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of
Liabilities   a replacement of FASB Statement No.
125,  and FIN 46 (R),  Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities (revised December 2003)   an
interpretation of ARB No. 51.  The FSP is effective
for reporting periods (annual or interim) ending
after December 15, 2008. Because the FSP amends only
the disclosure requirements, the adoption of the FSP
did not affect our consolidated financial results.
For additional information, see Note 8.

On September 12, 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS
133-1 and FIN 45-4. This FSP is intended to improve
disclosures about credit derivatives by requiring
more information about the potential adverse effects
of changes in credit risk on the financial position,
financial performance and cash flows of the sellers
of credit derivatives. It amends FAS 133,
 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities,  to require disclosures by sellers of
credit derivatives, including credit derivatives
embedded in hybrid instruments. The FSP also amends
FIN 45,  Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure
Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others   an
interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57, and 107
and rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34,  to
require an additional disclosure about the current
status of the payment/performance risk of a
guarantee. The provisions of the FSP that amend FAS
133 and FIN 45 are effective for reporting periods
(annual or interim) ending after November 15, 2008.
Because the FSP amends only the disclosure
requirements for credit derivatives and certain
guarantees, the adoption of the FSP did not affect
our consolidated financial results.

On January 12, 2009, the FASB issued FSP EITF
99-20-1, which amends EITF 99-20,  Recognition of
Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased
Beneficial Interests and Beneficial Interests That
Continue to Be Held by a Transferor in Securitized
Financial Assets  (EITF 99-20) ,  to achieve more
consistent determinations of whether
other-than-temporary impairments of
available-for-sale or held-to-maturity debt
securities have occurred. The provisions of the FSP
are to be applied prospectively and are considered
effective for reporting periods (annual or interim)
ending after December 15, 2008. Beginning with our
fourth quarter 2008 results, based on this FSP
guidance, we recorded no other-than-temporary
impairment for certain EITF 99-20 securities that
otherwise may have been considered impaired.

The following is a description of our
significant accounting policies.

Business Combinations   
 
A business combination occurs when an entity acquires net assets that constitute a business, or
acquires
equity interests

92  

in one or more other entities that are businesses and obtains control over those
entities. Business combinations may be effected through the transfer of consideration such as cash,
other financial or nonfinancial assets, debt, or common or preferred shares. The assets and
liabilities of an acquired entity or business are recorded at their respective fair values as of
the closing date of the merger. Fair values are preliminary and subject to refinement for up to one
year after the closing date of a merger as information relative to closing date fair values becomes
available. The results of operations of an acquired entity are included in our consolidated results
from the closing date of the merger, and prior periods are not restated. All business combinations
are accounted for using the purchase method.

The purchase price of an acquired entity or
business, to the extent the proceeds include our
common stock, is based on the weighted average closing
prices of our common stock for a period two trading
days before the announcement and two trading days
after the announcement of the merger, which includes
the announcement date.

To the extent that an acquired
entity s employees hold stock options, such options
are typically converted into our options at the
applicable exchange ratio for the common stock, and
the exercise price is adjusted accordingly. The fair
values of such options are determined using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model with market
assumptions. For vested options, including those that
fully vested upon change in control, the fair value is
included as a component of the purchase price. For
options that continue to vest post-merger, the fair
value is amortized in accordance with our policies for
stock-based compensation as described herein.

Certain of the accounting for business
combinations as described herein will change upon the
adoption of FAS 141 (revised 2007),  Business
Combinations,  which is effective for business
combinations consummated on or after January 1, 2009.

Consolidation    
Our consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of the Parent and our majority-owned
subsidiaries and variable interest entities (VIEs)
(defined below) in which we are the primary
beneficiary. Significant intercompany accounts and
transactions are eliminated in consolidation. If we
own at least 20% of an entity, we generally account
for the investment using the equity method. If we own
less than 20% of an entity, we generally carry the
investment at cost, except marketable equity
securities, which we carry at fair value with changes
in fair value included in other comprehensive income.
Investments accounted for under the equity or cost
method are included in other assets.

We are a variable interest holder in certain
special-purpose entities in which equity investors do
not have the characteristics of a controlling
financial interest or where the entity does not have
enough equity at risk to finance its activities
without additional subordinated financial support from
other parties (referred to as VIEs). Our variable
interest arises from contractual, ownership or other
monetary interests in

the entity, which change with
fluctuations in the entity s net asset value. We
consolidate a VIE if we are the primary beneficiary,
defined as the entity that will absorb a majority of
the entity s expected losses, receive a majority of
the entity s expected residual returns, or both.

Trading Assets    
Trading assets are primarily securities, including
corporate debt, U.S. government agency obligations
and other securities that we acquire for short-term
appreciation or other trading purposes, and the fair
value of derivatives held for customer accommodation
purposes or proprietary trading. Trading assets are
carried at fair value, with realized and unrealized
gains and losses recorded in noninterest income.
Noninterest income from trading assets was $275
million in 2008 and $544 million in 2007 and 2006.

Securities    
  SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE   Debt securities that we
might not hold until maturity and marketable equity
securities are classified as securities available for
sale and reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and
losses, after applicable taxes, are reported in
cumulative other comprehensive income. Fair value
measurement is based upon quoted prices, if available.
If quoted prices are not available, fair values are
measured using independent pricing models or other
model-based valuation techniques such as the present
value of future cash flows, adjusted for the
security s credit rating, prepayment assumptions and
other factors such as credit loss assumptions.

We
conduct other-than-temporary impairment analysis on a
quarterly basis or more often if a potential
loss-triggering event occurs. We recognize
other-than-temporary impairment when it is probable
that we will be unable to collect all amounts due
according to the contractual terms of the security and
the fair value of the investment security is less than
its amortized cost. The other-than-temporary
impairment loss is recorded in noninterest income. The
initial indicator of other-than-temporary impairment
for both debt and equity securities is a decline in
market value below the amount recorded for an
investment, and the severity and duration of the
decline. In determining whether an impairment is other
than temporary, we consider the length of time and the
extent to which market value has been less than cost,
any recent events specific to the issuer and economic
conditions of its industry, and our ability and intent
to hold the investment for a period of time, including
maturity, sufficient to allow for any anticipated
recovery in the fair value of the security.

We hold investments in perpetual preferred
securities (PPS) that are structured in equity form,
but have many of the characteristics of debt
instruments, including periodic cash flows in the form
of dividends, call features, ratings that are similar
to debt securities and pricing like long-term callable
bonds. The table on page 104 includes the gross
unrealized losses and fair value of our investments in
PPS, by the length of time they have been in a
continuous loss position. Of our total gross
unrealized losses at December 31, 2008, $327 million,
or approximately 3%, related to PPS.

93  

Because of the hybrid nature of these securities,
we evaluate PPS for other-than-temporary impairment
using the model we use for debt securities as
described above. Among the factors we consider in our
evaluation of PPS are whether there is any evidence of
deterioration in the credit of the issuer as indicated
by a decline in cash flows or a rating agency
downgrade and the estimated recovery
period. Additionally, in determining if there was
evidence of credit deterioration, we evaluate: (1) the
severity of decline in market value below cost, (2)
the period of time for which the decline in fair value
has existed, and (3) the financial condition and
near-term prospects of the issuer, including any
specific events which may influence the operations of
the issuer. We consider PPS to be impaired on an
other-than-temporary basis if it is probable that the
issuer will be unable to make its contractual payments
or if we no longer believe the security will recover
within the estimated recovery period.

In 2008, we recorded $1,057 million of
other-than-temporary impairment on PPS issued by
Government Sponsored Enterprises and corporations.
None of our investments in PPS that have not been
impaired had been downgraded below investment grade,
and management believes that there are no factors to
suggest that we will not fully realize our investment
in these instruments over a reasonable recovery
period.

For marketable equity securities, we also
consider the issuer s financial condition, capital
strength, and near-term prospects.

For debt securities and for PPS, which are
treated as debt securities for the purpose of
other-than-temporary impairment, we also consider:

the cause of the price decline such as the
general level of interest rates and industry and
issuer-specific factors; 

the issuer s financial condition, near-term
prospects and current ability to make future payments
in a timely manner; 

the issuer s ability to service debt; 

any change in agencies  ratings at evaluation
date from acquisition date and any likely imminent
action; and 

for asset-backed securities, the credit
performance of the underlying collateral, including
delinquency rates, cumulative losses to date, and the
remaining credit enhancement compared to expected
credit losses. 

The securities portfolio is an integral part of
our asset/liability management process. We manage
these investments to provide liquidity, manage
interest rate risk and maximize portfolio yield
within capital risk limits approved by management and
the Board of Directors and monitored by the Corporate
Asset/Liability Management Committee (Corporate
ALCO). We recognize realized gains and losses on the
sale of these securities in noninterest income using
the specific identification method.

Unamortized
premiums and discounts are recognized in interest
income over the contractual life of the security
using the interest method. As principal repayments
are received on securities (i.e., primarily
mortgage-backed securities) a pro-rata portion of the
unamortized premium or discount is recognized in
interest income.

NONMARKETABLE EQUITY SECURITIES   Nonmarketable equity
securities include venture capital equity securities
that are not publicly traded and securities acquired
for various purposes, such as to meet regulatory
requirements (for example, Federal Reserve Bank and
Federal Home Loan Bank stock). These securities are
accounted for under the cost or equity method or are
carried at fair value and are included in other
assets. We review those assets
accounted for under the cost or equity method at least
quarterly for possible other-than-temporary
impairment. Our review typically includes an analysis
of the facts and circumstances of each investment, the
expectations for the investment s cash flows and
capital needs, the viability of its business model and
our exit strategy. We reduce the asset value when we
consider declines in value to be other than temporary.
We recognize the estimated loss as a loss from equity
investments in noninterest income.

Nonmarketable
equity securities that fall within the scope of the
AICPA Investment Company Audit Guide are carried at
fair value (principal investments). Principal
investments, including certain public equity and
non-public securities and certain investments in
private equity funds, are recorded at fair value with
realized and unrealized gains and losses included in
gains and losses on equity investments in the income
statement, and are included in other assets in the
balance sheet. Public equity investments are valued
using quoted market prices and discounts are only
applied when there are trading restrictions that are
an attribute of the investment.

Private direct investments are valued using
metrics such as security prices of comparable public
companies, acquisition prices for similar companies
and original investment purchase price multiples,
while also incorporating a portfolio company s
financial performance and specific factors. For
certain fund investments, where the best estimates of
fair value were primarily determined based upon fund
sponsor data, we use the net asset value (NAV)
provided by the fund sponsor as an appropriate measure
of fair value. In some cases, such NAVs require
adjustments based on certain unobservable inputs. In
situations where a portion of an investment in a
non-public security or fund is sold, we recognize a
realized gain or loss on the portion sold and an
unrealized gain or loss on the portion retained.

Securities Purchased and Sold Agreements    
Securities purchased under resale agreements and
securities sold under repurchase agreements are
generally accounted for as collateralized financing
transactions and are recorded at the acquisition or
sale price plus accrued interest. It is our policy to
take possession of securities purchased under resale
agreements, which are primarily U.S. Government and
Government agency securities. We monitor the market
value of securities purchased and sold, and obtain
collateral from or return it to counterparties when
appropriate.

Mortgages Held for Sale    
Mortgages held for sale (MHFS) include commercial and
residential mortgages originated for sale and
securitization in the secondary market, which is our principal market,
or for

94  

sale as whole loans. Effective January 1,
2007, in connection with the adoption of FAS 159,  The
Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities, including an amendment of FASB Statement
No. 115  (FAS 159), we elected to measure new prime
residential MHFS at fair value (see Note 17).

Nonprime residential and commercial MHFS continue
to be held at the lower of cost or market value. For
these loans, gains and losses on loan sales (sales
proceeds minus carrying value) are recorded in
noninterest income. Direct loan origination costs and
fees are deferred at origination of the loans and are
recognized in mortgage banking noninterest income upon
sale of the loan.

Our lines of business are authorized to originate
held-for-investment loans that meet or exceed
established loan product profitability criteria,
including minimum positive net interest margin spreads
in excess of funding costs. When a determination is
made at the time of commitment to originate loans as
held for investment, it is our intent to hold these
loans to maturity or for the  foreseeable future, 
subject to periodic review under our corporate
asset/liability management process. In determining the
 foreseeable future  for these loans, management
considers (1) the current economic environment and
market conditions, (2) our business strategy and
current business plans, (3) the nature and type of the
loan receivable, including its expected life, and (4)
our current financial condition and liquidity demands.
Consistent with our core banking business of managing
the spread between the yield on our assets and the
cost of our funds, loans are periodically reevaluated
to determine if our minimum net interest margin
spreads continue to meet our profitability objectives.
If subsequent changes in interest rates significantly
impact the ongoing profitability of certain loan
products, we may subsequently change our intent to
hold these loans and we would take actions to sell
such loans in response to the Corporate ALCO
directives to reposition our balance sheet because of
the changes in interest rates. Such Corporate ALCO
directives identify both the type of loans (for
example 3/1, 5/1, 10/1 and relationship
adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs), as well as specific
fixed-rate loans) to be sold and the weighted-average
coupon rate of such loans no longer meeting our
ongoing investment criteria. Upon the issuance of such
directives, we immediately transfer these loans to the
MHFS portfolio at the lower of cost or market value.

Loans Held for Sale  

Loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost
or market value (LOCOM) or fair value under FAS 159.
For loans carried at LOCOM, gains and losses on loan
sales (sales proceeds minus carrying value) are
recorded in noninterest income, and direct loan
origination costs and fees are deferred at
origination of the loan and are recognized in
noninterest income upon sale of the loan.

Loans  

Loans are reported at their outstanding principal balances

net of any unearned income, charge-offs,
unamortized deferred fees and costs on originated loans and premiums or discounts on purchased
loans, except for certain purchased loans that fall under the scope of SOP 03-3, which are recorded
at fair value on their purchase date. See  Loans accounted for under SOP 03-3  on page 96. Unearned
income, deferred fees and costs, and discounts and premiums are amortized to income over the
contractual life of the loan using the interest method.

We offer a portfolio product known as
relationship adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) that
provides interest rate reductions to reward eligible
banking customers who have an existing relationship or
establish a new relationship with Wells Fargo.
Accordingly, this product offering is generally
underwritten to certain Company guidelines rather than
secondary market standards and is typically originated
for investment. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had
$15.6 billion and $15.4 billion, respectively, of
relationship ARMs in loans held for investment.
Originations, net of collections and proceeds from the
sale of these loans are reflected as investing cash
flows consistent with their original classification.

Loans also include direct financing leases that
are recorded at the aggregate of minimum lease
payments receivable plus the estimated residual value
of the leased property, less unearned income.
Leveraged leases, which are a form of direct
financing leases, are recorded net of related
nonre-course debt. Leasing income is recognized as a
constant percentage of outstanding lease financing
balances over the lease terms.

Loan commitment fees are generally deferred and
amortized into noninterest income on a straight-line
basis over the commitment period.

We pledge loans to secure borrowings from the
Federal Home Loan Bank and the Federal Reserve Bank as
part of our liquidity management strategy. At December
31, 2008, loans pledged where the secured party has
the right to sell or repledge totaled $201 billion,
and loans pledged where the secured party does not
have the right to sell or repledge totaled $137
billion.

NONACCRUAL LOANS   We generally place loans on
nonaccrual status when:

the full and timely
collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain; 

they are 90 days (120 days with respect to real
estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages and
auto loans) past due for interest or principal (unless
both well-secured and in the process of collection);
or 

part of the principal balance has been charged
off. 

Loans subject to SOP 03-3 are written down to an
amount estimated to be collectible. Accordingly, such
loans are no longer classified as nonaccrual even
though they may be contractually past due, because we
expect to fully collect the new carrying values of
such loans (that is, the new cost basis arising out of
purchase accounting).

Generally, consumer loans not secured by real
estate or autos are placed on nonaccrual status only
when part of the principal has been charged off. These
loans are charged off or charged down to the net
realizable value of the collateral when deemed
uncollectible, due to bankruptcy or other fac-

95 

tors, or
when they reach a defined number of days past due
based on loan product, industry practice, country,
terms and other factors.

When we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we
reverse the accrued unpaid interest receivable against
interest income and account for the loan on the cash
or cost recovery method, until it qualifies for return
to accrual status. Generally, we return a loan to
accrual status when (a) all delinquent interest and
principal become current under the terms of the loan
agreement or (b) the loan is both well-secured and in the process of
collection and collectibility is no longer doubtful.

Loan Charge-Off Policies  

For commercial loans, we generally fully or partially
charge down to the fair value of collateral securing
the asset when:

management judges the asset to be
uncollectible; 

repayment is deemed to be protracted
beyond reasonable time frames; 

the asset has been
classified as a loss by either our internal loan
review process or external examiners; 

the customer
has filed bankruptcy and the loss becomes evident
owing to a lack of assets; or 

the loan is 180 days
past due unless both well secured and in the process
of collection. 

For consumer loans, our charge-off policies are as follows:

1-4 FAMILY FIRST AND JUNIOR LIEN MORTGAGES   We
generally charge down to the net realizable value
when the loan is 180 days past due.

AUTO LOANS   We generally charge down to the net
realizable value when the loan is 120 days past due.

UNSECURED LOANS (CLOSED END)   We generally
charge-off when the loan is 120 days past due.

UNSECURED LOANS (OPEN-END)   We generally charge-off
when the loan is 180 days past due.

CREDIT CARD LOANS   We generally fully charge-off when
the loan is 180 days past due.

OTHER SECURED LOANS   We generally fully or partially
charge down to the net realizable value when the loan
is 120 days past due.

IMPAIRED LOANS   We consider a loan to be impaired when,
based on current information and events, we determine
that we will not be able to collect all amounts due
according to the loan contract, including scheduled
interest payments. We assess and account for as
impaired certain nonaccrual commercial and commercial
real estate loans that are over $5 million and certain
consumer, commercial and commercial real estate loans
whose terms have been modified in a troubled debt
restructuring.

When we identify a loan as impaired, we
measure the impairment based on the present value of
expected future cash flows, discounted at the loan s
effective interest rate,

except when the sole
(remaining) source of repayment for the loan is the
operation or liquidation of the collateral. In these
cases we use an observable market price or the current
fair value of the collateral, less selling costs when
foreclosure is probable, instead of discounted cash
flows.

If we determine that the value of the impaired
loan is less than the recorded investment in the loan
(net of previous charge-offs, deferred loan fees or
costs and unamortized premium or discount), we
recognize impairment through an allowance estimate or
a charge-off to the allowance.

In situations where, for economic or legal
reasons related to a borrower s financial
difficulties, we grant a concession to the borrower
that we would not otherwise consider, the related
loan is classified as a troubled debt restructuring.
The restructuring of a loan may include (1) the
transfer from the borrower to the company of real
estate, receivables from third parties, other assets,
or an equity interest in the borrower in full or
partial satisfaction of
the loan, (2) a modification of the loan terms,
or (3) a combination of the above.

In cases where we grant the borrower new terms
that provide for a reduction of either interest or
principal, we measure any loss on the restructuring in
accordance with the guidance concerning impaired loans
set forth in FAS 114,  Accounting by
Creditors for the Impairment of a Loan   an amendment
of FASB Statements No. 5 and 15. 

ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES   The allowance for credit
losses, which consists of the allowance for loan
losses and the reserve for unfunded credit
commitments, is management s estimate of credit losses
inherent in the loan portfolio at the balance sheet
date.

LOANS ACCOUNTED FOR UNDER SOP 03-3   Loans acquired by
completion of a transfer or in a business combination,
including those acquired from Wachovia, where there is
evidence of credit deterioration since origination and
it is probable at the date of acquisition that we will
not collect all contractually required principal and
interest payments are accounted for under SOP 03-3.
SOP 03-3 requires that acquired credit-impaired loans
be recorded at fair value and prohibits carryover of
the related allowance for loan losses. Some loans that
otherwise meet the definition as credit impaired are
specifically excluded from the scope of SOP 03-3, such
as revolving loans where the borrower still has
revolving privileges.

Evidence of credit quality deterioration as of
the purchase date may include statistics such as past
due and nonaccrual status, recent borrower credit
scores and recent loan-to-value percentages.
Generally, acquired loans that meet our definition for
nonaccrual status fall within the scope of SOP 03-3.

Loans within the scope of SOP 03-3 are initially
recorded at fair value. The application of the SOP,
and the process estimating fair value involves
estimating the principal and interest cash flows
expected to be collected on the credit impaired loans
and discounting those cash flows at a market rate of
interest.

Under SOP 03-3, the excess of cash flows
expected at acquisition over the estimated fair value
is referred to as the accretable yield and is
recognized into interest income over the remaining
life of the loan in situations where there is a

96 

reasonable expectation about the timing and amount of
cash flows to be collected. The difference between
contractually required payments at acquisition and the
cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition,
considering the impact of prepayments, is referred to
as the nonaccretable difference. Subsequent decreases
to the expected cash flows will generally result in a
charge to the provision for credit losses resulting in
an increase to the allowance for loan losses.
Subsequent increases in cash flows result in reversal
of nonaccretable discount (or allowance for loan
losses to the extent any had been recorded) with a
positive impact on interest income. Disposals of
loans, which may include sales of loans, receipt of
payments in full by the borrower, foreclosure, or
troubled debt restructurings result in removal of the
loan from the SOP 03-3 portfolio at its carrying
amount.

Loans subject to SOP 03-3 are written down to an
amount estimated to be collectible. Accordingly, such
loans are no longer classified as nonaccrual even
though they may be contractually past due. We expect to fully
collect the new carrying values of such loans (that
is, the new cost basis arising out of purchase
accounting). If a loan, or a pool of loans,
deteriorates post acquisition a provision for loan
losses is recorded to increase the allowance for loan
losses. Loans subject to SOP 03-3 are also excluded
from the disclosure of loans 90 days or more past due
and still accruing interest. Even though substantially
all of them are 90 days or more contractually past
due, they are considered to be accruing because the
interest income on these loans relates to the
establishment of an accretable yield in accordance
with SOP 03-3.

Securitizations and Beneficial Interests  

In certain asset securitization transactions that meet
the applicable criteria to be accounted for as a sale,
assets are sold to an entity referred to as a
qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE), which then
issues beneficial interests in the form of senior and
subordinated interests collateralized by the assets.
In some cases, we may retain up to 90% of the
beneficial interests. Additionally, from time to time,
we may also resecuritize certain assets in a new
securitization transaction.

The assets and liabilities sold to a QSPE are
excluded from our consolidated balance sheet, subject
to a quarterly evaluation to ensure the entity
continues to meet the requirements to be a QSPE. If
our portion of the beneficial interests equals or
exceeds 90%, a QSPE would no longer qualify for
off-balance sheet treatment and we may be required to
consolidate the SPE, subject to determining whether
the entity is a VIE and to determining who is the
primary beneficiary. In these cases, any beneficial
interests that we previously held are derecognized
from the balance sheet and we record the underlying
assets and liabilities of the SPE at fair value to the
extent interests were previously held by outside
parties.

The carrying amount of the assets transferred to
a QSPE, excluding servicing rights, is allocated
between the assets sold and the retained interests
based on their relative fair values at the date of
transfer. We record a gain or loss in other fee income
for the difference between the carrying amount and the
fair value of the assets sold. Fair values are based
on quoted market prices, quoted market prices for
similar assets,

or if market prices are not available,
then the fair value is estimated using discounted cash
flow analyses with assumptions for credit losses,
prepayments and discount rates that are corroborated
by and independently verified against market
observable data, where possible. Retained interests
from securitizations with off-balance sheet entities,
including QSPEs and VIEs where we are the primary
beneficiary, are classified as either
available-for-sale securities, trading account assets
or loans, and are accounted for as described herein.

Mortgage Servicing Rights  

Under FAS 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial
Assets  an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140, 
servicing rights resulting from the sale or
securitization of loans we originate (asset
transfers) are initially measured at fair value at
the date of transfer. We recognize the rights to
service mortgage loans for others, or mortgage
servicing rights (MSRs), as assets whether we
purchase the MSRs or the MSRs result from an asset transfer. We
determine the fair value of servicing rights at the
date of transfer using the present value of estimated
future net servicing income, using assumptions that
market participants use in their estimates of values.
We use quoted market prices when available to
determine the value of other interests held. Gain or
loss on sale of loans depends on (1) proceeds
received and (2) the previous carrying amount of the
financial assets transferred and any interests we
continue to hold (such as interest-only strips) based
on relative fair value at the date of transfer.

To determine the fair value of MSRs, we use a
valuation model that calculates the present value of
estimated future net servicing income. We use
assumptions in the valuation model that market
participants use in estimating future net servicing
income, including estimates of prepayment speeds
(including housing price volatility), discount rate,
default rates, cost to service (including delinquency
and foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings,
contractual servicing fee income, ancillary income and
late fees. This model is validated by an independent
internal model validation group operating in
accordance with a model validation policy approved by
the Corporate Asset/Liability Management Committee
(Corporate ALCO).

MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE   We
have elected to initially measure and carry our MSRs
related to residential mortgage loans (residential
MSRs) using the fair value method. Under the fair
value method, these residential MSRs are carried in
the balance sheet at fair value and the changes in
fair value, primarily due to changes in valuation
inputs and assumptions and to the
collection/realization of expected cash flows, are
reported in noninterest income in the period in which
the change occurs.

AMORTIZED MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS   Amortized MSRs,
which include commercial MSRs, are carried at the
lower of cost or market value. These MSRs are
amortized in proportion to, and over the period of,
estimated net servicing income. The amortization of
MSRs is analyzed monthly and is adjusted to reflect
changes in prepayment speeds, as well as other
factors.

97 

Premises and Equipment  

Premises and equipment are carried at cost less
accumulated depreciation and amortization. Capital
leases are included in premises and equipment at the
capitalized amount less accumulated amortization.

We primarily use the straight-line method of
depreciation and amortization. Estimated useful lives
range up to 40 years for buildings, up to 10 years for
furniture and equipment, and the shorter of the
estimated useful life or lease term for leasehold
improvements. We amortize capitalized leased assets on
a straight-line basis over the lives of the respective
leases.

Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets  

Goodwill is recorded in business combinations under
the purchase method of accounting when the purchase
price is higher than the fair value of net assets,
including identifiable intangible assets.

We assess goodwill for impairment annually, and more
frequently in certain circumstances. We assess
goodwill for impairment on a reporting unit level by
applying a fair-value-based test using discounted
estimated future net cash flows. Impairment exists
when the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds its
implied fair value. We recognize impairment losses as
a charge to noninterest expense (unless related to
discontinued operations) and an adjustment to the
carrying value of the goodwill asset. Subsequent
reversals of goodwill impairment are prohibited.

We amortize core deposit and other customer
relationship intangibles on an accelerated basis based
on useful lives not exceeding 10 years. We review such
intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts
may not be recoverable.

Impairment is indicated if the sum of undiscounted
estimated future net cash flows is less than the
carrying value of the asset. Impairment is permanently
recognized by writing down the asset to the extent
that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair
value.

Operating Lease Assets  

Operating lease rental income for leased assets is
recognized in other income on a straight-line basis
over the lease term. Related depreciation expense is
recorded on a straight-line basis over the life of the
lease, taking into account the estimated residual
value of the leased asset. On a periodic basis, leased
assets are reviewed for impairment. Impairment loss is
recognized if the carrying amount of leased assets
exceeds fair value and is not recoverable. The
carrying amount of leased assets is not recoverable if
it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows
expected to result from the lease payments and the
estimated residual value upon the eventual disposition
of the equipment. Leased assets are written down to
the fair value of the collateral less cost to sell
when 120 days past due.

Pension Accounting  

We account for our defined benefit pension plans using
an actuarial model required by FAS 87,  Employers 
Accounting for 

Pensions,  as amended by FAS 158,  Employers 
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB
Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R). 
This model allocates pension costs over the service
period of employees in the plan. The underlying
principle is that employees render service ratably
over this period and, therefore, the income statement
effects of pensions should follow a similar pattern.

FAS 158 was issued on September 29, 2006, and became
effective for us on December 31, 2006. FAS 158
requires us to recognize the funded status of our
pension and postretirement benefit plans on our
balance sheet. Additionally, FAS 158 requires us to
use a year-end measurement date beginning in 2008. We
conformed our pension asset and our pension and
postretirement liabilities to FAS 158 and recorded a
corresponding reduction of $402 million (after tax) to
the December 31, 2006, balance of cumulative other
comprehensive income in stockholders  equity. FAS 158
does not change the amount of net periodic benefit
expense recognized in our income statement.

One of the principal components of the net
periodic pension expense calculation is the expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets. The use of an
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets may
cause us to recognize pension income returns that are
greater or less than the actual returns of plan assets
in any given year.

The expected long-term rate of return is designed
to approximate the actual long-term rate of return
over time and is not expected to change significantly.
Therefore, the pattern of income/expense recognition
should closely match the stable pattern of services
provided by our employees over the life of our pension
obligation. To ensure that the expected rate of return
is reasonable, we consider such factors as (1)
long-term historical return experience for major asset
class categories (for example, large cap and small cap
domestic equities, international equities and domestic
fixed income), and (2) forward-looking return
expectations for these major asset classes.
Differences between expected and actual returns in
each year, if any, are included in our net actuarial
gain or loss amount, which is recognized in other
comprehensive income. We generally amortize any net
actuarial gain or loss in excess of a 5% corridor (as
defined in FAS 87) in net periodic pension expense
calculations over the next five years.

We use a discount rate to determine the present
value of our future benefit obligations. The discount
rate reflects the rates available at the measurement
date on long-term high-quality fixed-income debt
instruments and is reset annually on the measurement
date. In 2008, we changed our measurement date from
November 30 to December 31 as required under FAS 158.

Income Taxes  

We file consolidated and separate company federal
income tax returns, foreign tax returns and various
combined and separate company state tax returns.

We account for income taxes in accordance with FAS 109,
 Accounting for Income Taxes,  as interpreted by FASB

98  

Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty
in Income 
 Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 
(FIN 48), resulting in two components of income tax
expense: current and deferred. Current income tax
expense approximates taxes to be paid or refunded for
the current period and includes income tax expense
related to our uncertain tax positions. We determine
deferred income taxes using the balance sheet method.
Under this method, the net deferred tax asset or
liability is based on the tax effects of the
differences between the book and tax bases of assets
and liabilities, and recognizes enacted changes in tax
rates and laws in the period in which they occur.
Deferred income tax expense results from changes in
deferred tax assets and liabilities between periods.
Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to
management s judgment that realization is more likely
than not. A tax position that meets the  more likely
than not  recognition threshold is measured to
determine the amount of benefit to recognize. The tax
position is measured at the largest amount of benefit
that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon
settlement. Foreign taxes paid are generally applied
as credits to reduce federal income taxes payable.
Interest and penalties are recognized as a component
of income tax expense.

Stock-Based Compensation  

We have stock-based employee compensation plans as
more fully discussed in Note 19. Under FAS 123(R),
 Share-Based Payment,  compensation cost recognized
includes (1) compensation cost for share-based
payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of
January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value
estimated in accordance with FAS 123, and (2)
compensation cost for all share-based awards granted
on or after January 1, 2006. In calculating the common
stock equivalents for purposes of diluted earnings per
share, we selected the transition method provided by
FASB Staff Position FAS 123(R)-3,  Transition Election
Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of
Share-Based Payment Awards. 

Earnings Per Common Share  

We compute earnings per common share by dividing net
income (after deducting dividends on preferred stock)
by the average number of common shares outstanding
during the year. We compute diluted earnings per
common share by dividing net income (after deducting
dividends and related accretion on preferred stock)
by the average number of common shares outstanding
during the year, plus the effect of common stock
equivalents (for example, stock options, restricted
share rights, convertible debentures and warrants)
that are dilutive.

Derivatives and Hedging Activities  

We recognize all derivatives in the balance sheet at
fair value. On the date we enter into a derivative
contract, we designate the derivative as (1) a hedge
of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability,
including hedges of foreign currency exposure ( fair
value  hedge), (2) a hedge of a forecasted transaction
or of the variability of cash flows to be received or
paid related to a recognized asset or liability ( cash
flow  hedge), or (3) held for trading, customer
accommodation or

asset/liability risk management purposes, including
economic hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting
under FAS 133,
 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities 
( free-standing derivative ). For a fair value hedge,
we record changes in the fair value of the derivative
and, to the extent that it is effective, changes in
the fair value of the hedged asset or liability
attributable to the hedged risk, in current period
earnings in the same financial statement category as
the hedged item. For a cash flow hedge, we record
changes in the fair value of the derivative to the
extent that it is effective in other comprehensive
income, with any ineffectiveness recorded in current
period earnings. We subsequently reclassify these
changes in fair value to net income in the same
period(s) that the hedged transaction affects net
income in the same financial statement category as the
hedged item. For free-standing derivatives, we report
changes in the fair values in current period
noninterest income.

For fair value and cash flow hedges qualifying
for hedge accounting under FAS 133, we formally
document at inception the relationship between
hedging instruments and hedged items, our risk
management objective, strategy and our evaluation of
effectiveness for our hedge transactions. This
includes linking all derivatives designated as fair
value or cash flow hedges to specific assets and
liabilities in the balance sheet or to specific
forecasted transactions.
Periodically, as required, we also formally assess
whether the derivative we designated in each hedging
relationship is expected to be and has been highly
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or
cash flows of the hedged item using the regression
analysis method or, in limited cases, the dollar
offset method.

We discontinue hedge accounting prospectively when
(1) a derivative is no longer highly effective in
offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of
a hedged item, (2) a derivative expires or is sold,
terminated or exercised, (3) a derivative is
de-designated as a hedge, because it is unlikely that
a forecasted transaction will occur, or (4) we
determine that designation of a derivative as a hedge
is no longer appropriate.

When we discontinue hedge accounting because a
derivative no longer qualifies as an effective fair
value hedge, we continue to carry the derivative in
the balance sheet at its fair value with changes in
fair value included in earnings, and no longer adjust
the previously hedged asset or liability for changes
in fair value. Previous adjustments to the hedged item
are accounted for in the same manner as other
components of the carrying amount of the asset or
liability.

When we discontinue cash flow hedge
accounting because the hedging instrument is sold,
terminated or no longer designated (de-designated),
the amount reported in other comprehensive income up
to the date of sale, termination or de-designation
continues to be reported in other comprehensive income
until the forecasted transaction affects earnings.

When
 we discontinue cash flow
hedge accounting because it is probable that a
forecasted transaction will not occur, we continue to
carry the derivative in the balance sheet at its fair

99  

value with changes in fair value included in earnings,
and
immediately recognize gains and losses that were
accumulated in other comprehensive income in earnings.

In all other situations in which we discontinue
hedge accounting, the derivative will be carried at
its fair value in the balance sheet, with changes in
its fair value recognized in current period earnings.

We occasionally purchase or originate financial
instruments that contain an embedded derivative. At
inception of the financial instrument, we assess (1)
if the economic characteristics of the embedded
derivative are not clearly and closely related to the
economic characteristics of the financial instrument
(host contract), (2) if the financial instrument that
embodies both the embedded derivative and the host
contract is not measured at fair value with changes in
fair value reported in earnings, and (3) if a separate
instrument with the same terms as the embedded
instrument would meet the definition of a derivative.
If the embedded derivative meets all of these
conditions, we separate it from the host contract by
recording the bifurcated derivative at fair value and
the remaining host contract at the difference between
the basis of the hybrid instrument and the fair value
of the bifurcated derivative. The bifurcated
derivative is carried as a free-standing derivative at
fair value with changes recorded in current period
earnings.

Revenue Recognition  

We recognize revenue when the earnings process is
complete, generally on the trade date, and
collectability is assured. Specifically, brokerage
commission fees are recognized in income on a trade
date basis. We accrue asset management fees, measured
by assets at a particular date, as earned. We
recognize advisory and underwriting fees when the
related transaction is complete. We record commission
expenses when the related revenue is recognized.

For derivative contracts, we recognize gains and
losses at inception only if the fair value of the
contract is evidenced by a quoted market price in an
active market, an observable price of other market
transactions or other observable data supporting a
valuation technique. For those gains and losses that
are not evidenced by market data, we use the
transaction price as the fair value of the contract,
and do not recognize any gain or loss at inception.
Any gains or losses not meeting the criteria for
initial recognition are deferred and recognized when
realized.

Note 2:     Business Combinations 

On December 31, 2008, we acquired all outstanding
shares of Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia) common stock
in a stock-for-stock transaction. Wachovia, based in
Charlotte, North Carolina, was one of the nation s
largest diversified financial services companies,
providing a broad range of retail banking and
brokerage, asset and wealth management, and corporate
and investment banking products and
services to customers through 3,300 financial centers
in 21 states from Connecticut to Florida and west to
Texas and California, and nationwide retail brokerage,
mortgage lending and auto finance businesses. In the
merger, Wells Fargo exchanged 0.1991 shares of its
common stock for each outstanding share of Wachovia
common stock, issuing a total of 422.7 million shares
of Wells Fargo common stock with a December 31, 2008,
value of $12.5 billion to Wachovia shareholders.
Shares of each outstanding series of Wachovia
preferred stock were converted into shares (or
fractional shares) of a corresponding series of Wells
Fargo preferred stock having substantially the same
rights and preferences. Because the acquisition was
completed at the end of 2008, Wachovia s results of
operations for 2008 are not included in our income
statement.

The Wachovia acquisition was accounted for under
the purchase method of accounting in accordance with
FAS 141. The
statement of net assets acquired as of December 31,
2008, purchase price and the computation of goodwill
related to the merger of Wells Fargo and Wachovia are
presented in the following table.

The assets and liabilities of Wachovia were
recorded at their respective acquisition date fair
values, and identifiable intangible assets were
recorded at fair value. Because the transaction closed
on the last day of the annual reporting period,
certain fair value purchase accounting adjustments
were based on data as of an interim period with
estimates through year end. Accordingly, we will be
re-validating and, where necessary, refining our
purchase accounting adjustments. We expect that the
refinements will focus largely on loans with evidence
of credit deterioration. The impact of any changes
will be recorded as an adjustment to goodwill.
Additional exit reserves related to costs associated
with involuntary employee termination, contract
termination penalties and closing duplicate facilities
will be recorded within the next year as part of the
further integration of Wachovia s employees, locations
and operations with Wells Fargo. At December 31, 2008,
$199 million of exit reserves in connection with
management s finalized integration plans have been
allocated to the purchase price and included in the
following table.

The pro forma consolidated condensed statements
of income for Wells Fargo and Wachovia for the years
ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, are presented on the
following page. The unaudited pro forma information
presented does not necessarily reflect the results of
operations that would have resulted had the merger
been completed at the beginning of the applicable
periods presented, nor does it indicate the results of
operations in future periods.

100  

The pro forma purchase accounting adjustments
related to loans and leases, bank-owned life
insurance, deposits and long-term debt are being
accreted or amortized into income

using methods that approximate a level yield
over their respective estimated lives. Purchase
accounting adjustments related to identifiable
intangibles are being amortized and recorded as
noninterest expense over their respective

estimated lives using accelerated methods. The
pro forma consolidated condensed statements of
income do not reflect any adjustments to Wachovia s
historical provision for credit losses and goodwill
impairment charges.

Statement
of Net Assets Acquired (at fair value)    

Pro Forma Consolidated Condensed Statements of Income (Unaudited)  

(1) 
       
     For 2008 includes $2.7 billion and $1.2 billion recorded by Wells Fargo and Wachovia,
respectively, to conform credit reserve practices of both companies. 

(2) 
       
     For 2008 includes goodwill impairment of $24.8 billion recorded by Wachovia on a historical basis. 

101  

We regularly explore opportunities to acquire
financial services companies and businesses.
Generally, we do not make a public announcement about
an acquisition opportunity until a definitive
agreement has been signed.

In addition to the Wachovia acquisition, business
combinations completed in 2008, 2007 and 2006 are
presented below.

For information on additional consideration
related to acquisitions, which is considered to be a
guarantee, see Note 15.

(1) 
       
     Consists of five affiliated banks of United Bancorporation of Wyoming, Inc., located in
Wyoming and Idaho, and certain assets and liabilities of United Bancorporation of Wyoming, Inc. 

(2) 
       
     Represents a step acquisition resulting from the increase in Wells Fargo s ownership from a 47.5%
interest to a 60% interest in the Wells Fargo Merchant Services, LLC joint venture. 

(3) 
       
     Consists of twelve acquisitions of insurance brokerage businesses. 

(4) 
       
     Consists of six acquisitions of insurance brokerage and third party
health care payment processing businesses. 

(5) 
       
     Consists of seven acquisitions of insurance brokerage businesses. 

102  

Note 3:     Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions

Federal Reserve Board regulations require that each of our subsidiary banks maintain reserve
balances on deposit with the Federal Reserve Banks. The average required reserve balance was $2.6
billion in 2008 and $2.0 billion in 2007.

Federal law restricts the amount and the terms of both credit and non-credit transactions
between a bank and its nonbank affiliates. They may not exceed 10% of the bank s capital and
surplus (which for this purpose represents Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, as calculated under the
risk-based capital guidelines, plus the balance of the allowance for credit losses excluded from
Tier 2 capital) with any single nonbank affiliate and 20% of the bank s capital and surplus with
all its nonbank affiliates. Transactions that are extensions of credit may require collateral to be
held to provide added security to the bank. For further discussion of risk-based capital, see Note
26.

Dividends paid by our subsidiary banks are subject to various federal and state regulatory
limitations. Dividends that may be paid by a national bank without the express approval of the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) are limited to that bank s retained net profits for
the preceding two calendar years plus retained net profits up to the date of any dividend
declaration in the current calendar year. Retained net profits, 

as defined by the OCC, consist of net income less dividends declared
during the period. We also have state-chartered subsidiary banks that are subject to state
regulations that limit dividends. Under those provisions, our national and state-chartered
subsidiary banks could have declared additional dividends of $471 million at December 31, 2008,
without obtaining prior regulatory approval. Our nonbank subsidiaries are also limited by certain
federal and state statutory provisions and regulations covering the amount of dividends that may be
paid in any given year. Based on retained earnings at December 31, 2008, our nonbank subsidiaries
could have declared additional dividends of $3.2 billion at December 31, 2008, without obtaining
prior approval.

On October 28, 2008, the Parent issued to the United States Department of the Treasury 25,000
shares of its Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series D without par value. Prior to
October 28, 2011, unless the Parent has redeemed the Series D Preferred Stock or the Treasury
Department has transferred the Series D Preferred Stock to a third party, the consent of the
Treasury Department will be required for the Parent to increase its common stock dividend.

Note 4:   
       
     Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Resale Agreements and Other Short-Term
Investments 

The table below provides the detail of federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale
agreements and other short-term investments.

For resale agreements, which represent collateralized financing transactions, we hold
collateral in the form of securities that we have the right to sell or repledge of $1.6 billion at
December 31, 2008, and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2007, of which we sold or repledged $343
million and $705 million, respectively.

103  

Note 5:     Securities Available for Sale

The following table provides the cost and fair value for the major categories of securities
available for sale carried at fair value. The net unrealized gains (losses) are reported

on an after-tax basis as a component of cumulative other comprehensive income. There were no
securities classified as held to maturity as of the periods presented.

(1) 
       
     A majority of the private collateralized mortgage obligations are AAA-rated bonds
collateralized by 1-4 family residential first mortgages. 

(2) 
       
     At December 31, 2008, we held no securities of any single issuer (excluding the U.S. Treasury
and federal agencies) with a book value that exceeded 10% of stockholders  equity. 

The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value of securities in the
securities available-for-sale portfolio at December 31, 2008 and 2007, by length of time

that individual securities in each category had been in a continuous loss position.

104  

The unrealized losses associated with debt securities that had been in a continuous loss
position for 12 months or more at December 31, 2008, were primarily due to extraordinarily wide
asset spreads for residential mortgage, commercial mortgage and commercial loan asset-backed
securities resulting from an illiquid market, which caused these assets to be valued at significant
discounts to their acquisition cost. At December 31, 2008, we believed that it is probable that we
will be able to collect all contractually due principal and interest on these securities. We
evaluate these securities for impairment in accordance with our policies on a quarterly basis or
more frequently if a loss-triggering event occurs. This evaluation includes evaluating whether
there have been any changes in security ratings issued by ratings agencies, performance of the
underlying collateral for asset-backed securities including delinquency rates, cumulative losses to
date, and the remaining credit enhancement as compared to expected credit losses of the security.

The unrealized losses associated with private collateralized mortgage obligations related to
securities backed by commercial mortgages and residential mortgages. Approximately 75% of the
securities were AAA-rated by at least one major rating agency. We estimate loss projections for
each security by assessing individual loans collateralizing the security and determining expected
default rates and loss severities. In addition, based upon our assessment of expected credit losses
of the security given the performance of the underlying collateral compared to our credit
enhancement, we concluded that these securities were not other-than-temporarily impaired at
December 31, 2008.

The unrealized losses associated with other securities related to securities backed by
commercial loans and individual issuer companies. For securities with commercial loans as the
underlying collateral, we have evaluated the expected credit losses in the security and concluded
that we have sufficient credit enhancement when compared with our estimate of credit losses for the
individual security. For individual issuers, we evaluate the financial performance of the issuer on
a quarterly basis to determine if it is probable that the issuer can make all contractual principal
and interest payments.

The unrealized losses associated with securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions are
primarily driven by changes in interest rates and not due to the credit quality of the securities.
These investments are almost exclusively investment grade and were generally underwritten in
accordance with our own investment standards prior to the determination to purchase, without
relying on a bond insurer s guarantee in making the investment decision. These securities will
continue to be monitored as part of our on-going impairment analysis, but are expected to perform,
even if the rating agencies reduce the credit rating of the bond insurers. As a result, we
concluded that these securities were not other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2008.

Because we have the ability and intent to hold these debt securities until a recovery of fair
value, which may be maturity, we do not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily
impaired at December 31, 2008.

Our marketable equity securities included approximately $4.7 billion of investments in
perpetual preferred securities at December 31, 2008. These securities provide very attractive
tax-equivalent yields and were current as to periodic distributions in accordance with their
respective terms as of December 31, 2008. We have opportunistically increased our holdings in these
securities over the past 18 months in response to increased yields available in the marketplace,
driven by a significant widening in credit spreads caused by the mortgage and credit crises. The
market value of our holdings in these securities declined during this period as a result of the
continued widening of credit spreads. We evaluated these hybrid financial instruments for
impairment using an evaluation methodology similar to that used for debt securities. Perpetual
preferred securities were not other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2008, if there was no
evidence of credit deterioration or investment rating downgrades of any issuers to below investment
grade, and it was probable we would continue to receive full contractual payments. We will continue
to evaluate the prospects for these securities for recovery in their market value in accordance
with our policy for determining other-than-temporary impairment. We have recorded impairment
write-downs on perpetual preferred securities where there was evidence of credit deterioration.

The fair values of our investment securities could decline in the future if the underlying
performance of the collateral for the private collateralized mortgage obligations or other
securities deteriorate and our credit enhancement levels do not provide sufficient protection to
our contractual principal and interest. As a result, there is a risk that significant
other-than-temporary impairments may occur in the future given the current economic environment.

Securities pledged where the secured party has the right to sell or repledge totaled $10.1
billion at December 31, 2008, and $5.8 billion at December 31, 2007. Securities pledged where the
secured party does not have the right to sell or repledge totaled $71.6 billion at December 31,
2008, and $44.9 billion at December 31, 2007, primarily to secure trust and public deposits and for
other purposes as required or permitted by law.

The following table shows the net realized gains on the sales of securities from the
securities available-for-sale portfolio, including marketable equity securities. Gross realized
losses included other-than-temporary impairment of $1,790 million, $50 million and $22 million for
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Other-than-temporary impairment for 2008 included $1,057 million
related to perpetual preferred securities that were either downgraded to less than investment grade
or evidenced other significant credit deterioration events.

105  

The following table shows the remaining contractual principal maturities and contractual
yields of debt securities available for sale. The remaining contractual principal maturities for
mortgage-backed securities were allocated assuming no prepayments. 

Remaining expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities
because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations before the underlying mortgages mature.

(1) 
       
     The weighted-average yield is computed using the contractual life amortization method. 

Note 6:     Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses

Certain loans acquired in the Wachovia acquisition are subject to SOP 03-3 (see Note 1). These
include loans where it is probable that we will not collect all contractual principal and interest.
Loans within the scope of SOP 03-3 are initially recorded at fair value, and no allowance is
carried over or

initially recorded. A summary of the major categories of loans outstanding showing those subject to
SOP 03-3 is presented in the following table.

Outstanding loan balances are presented net of unearned income, net deferred loan fees, and
unamortized discount and premium totaling $16,891 million and $4,083 million at

December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively. Loans subject to SOP 03-3 are presented net of the
related accretable yield and nonaccretable difference.

106  

Loan concentrations may exist when there are amounts loaned to borrowers engaged in similar
activities or similar types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that would cause them
to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we did not
have concentrations representing 10% or more of our total loan portfolio in commercial loans and
lease financing by industry or commercial real estate loans (other real estate mortgage and real
estate construction) by state or property type. Our real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans to
borrowers in the state of California represented approximately 14% of total loans at December 31,
2008, compared with 13% at December 31, 2007. Of this amount, 3% of total loans were SOP 03-3
loans. These loans are generally diversified among the larger metropolitan areas in California,
with no single area consisting of more than 2% of total loans. Changes in real estate values and
underlying economic or market conditions for these areas are monitored continuously within our
credit risk management process. Beginning in 2007, the residential real estate markets experienced
significant declines in property values, and several markets in California, specifically the
Central Valley and several Southern California metropolitan statistical areas, experienced more
severe value adjustments.

Some of our real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans, including first mortgage and home equity
products, include an interest-only feature as part of the loan terms. At December 31, 2008, these
loans were approximately 11% of total loans, compared with 20% at December 31, 2007. Most of these
loans are considered to be prime or near prime.

For certain extensions of credit, we may require collateral, based on our assessment of a
customer s credit risk. We hold various types of collateral, including accounts receivable,
inventory, land, buildings, equipment, autos, financial instruments, income-producing commercial
properties and residential real estate. Collateral requirements for each customer may vary
according to the specific credit underwriting, terms and structure of loans funded immediately or
under a commitment to fund at a later date.

A commitment to extend credit is a legally binding agreement to lend funds to a customer,
usually at a stated interest rate and for a specified purpose. These commitments have fixed
expiration dates and generally require a fee. When we make such a commitment, we have credit risk.
The liquidity requirements or credit risk will be lower than the contractual amount of commitments
to extend credit because a significant portion of these commitments are expected to expire without
being used. Certain commitments are subject to loan agreements with covenants regarding the
financial performance of the customer or borrowing base formulas that must be met before we are
required to fund the commitment. We use the same credit policies in extending credit for unfunded
commitments and letters of credit that we use in making loans. See Note 15 for information on
standby letters of credit.

In addition, we manage the potential risk in credit commitments by limiting the total amount
of arrangements, both by individual customer and in total, by monitoring the size and maturity
structure of these portfolios and by applying the same credit standards for all of our credit
activities.

The total of our unfunded loan commitments, net of all funds lent and all standby and
commercial letters of credit issued under the terms of these commitments, is summarized by loan
category in the following table:

We have an established process to determine the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses
that assesses the risks and losses inherent in our portfolio. While we attribute portions of the
allowance to specific loan categories as part of our analytical process, the entire allowance is
used to absorb credit losses inherent in the total loan portfolio.

At December 31, 2008, the portion of the allowance for credit losses estimated at a pooled
level for consumer loans and some segments of commercial small business loans was $16.4 billion.
For purposes of determining the allowance for credit losses, we pool certain loans in our portfolio
by product type, primarily for the auto, credit card and real estate mortgage portfolios. To
achieve greater accuracy, we further segment selected portfolios. As appropriate, the business
groups may attempt to achieve greater accuracy through segmentation by sub-product, origination
channel, vintage, loss type, geography and other predictive characteristics. For example, credit
cards are segmented by origination channel and the Home Equity portfolios are further segmented
between liquidating and nonliquidating. In the case of residential mortgages, we segment the
liquidating Pick-a-Pay portfolio, and further segment this portfolio based on origination channel.

To measure losses inherent in consumer loans and some commercial small business loans, we use
loss models and other quantitative, mathematical techniques to forecast losses. Each business group
forecasts losses for loans as of the balance sheet date over the estimated loss emergence period.
During fourth quarter 2008, we conformed our loss emergence period for these portfolios to cover 12
months of estimated losses, which is within Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
(FFIEC) guidelines and resulted in a $2.7 billion increase to the allowance for credit losses.

107  

The allowance for credit losses consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for
unfunded credit commitments. Changes in the allowance for credit losses were:

(1) 
       
     Provision included $3.9 billion to conform credit reserve practices of Wells Fargo and
Wachovia. 

(2) 
       
     Because the Wachovia acquisition occurred on the last day of 2008, charge-offs and recoveries
include only those of Wells Fargo and exclude Wachovia s 2008 charge-offs and recoveries. 

(3) 
       
     The allowance for loan losses and the allowance for credit losses do not include any amounts
related to loans acquired from Wachovia that are accounted for under SOP 03-3 (Wachovia s allowance
related to these loans was $12.0 billion). Loans acquired from Wachovia are included in total loans
net of related purchase accounting net write-downs (see Note 1). 

108  

Forecasted losses are compared with actual losses and this information is used by management
in order to develop an allowance that management believes adequate to cover losses inherent in the
loan portfolio as of the reporting date.

The portion of the allowance for commercial loans, commercial real estate loans and lease
financing was $4.5 billion at December 31, 2008. We initially estimate this portion of the
allowance by applying historical loss factors statistically derived from tracking losses associated
with actual portfolio movements over a specified period of time, for each specific loan grade.
Based on this process, we assign loss factors to each pool of graded loans and a loan equivalent
amount for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit. These estimates are then adjusted or
supplemented where necessary from additional analysis of long-term average loss experience,
external loss data or other risks identified from current conditions and trends in selected
portfolios, including management s judgment for imprecision and uncertainty.

We also assess and account for certain nonaccrual commercial and commercial real estate loans
that are over $5 million and certain consumer, commercial and commercial real estate loans whose
terms have been modified in a troubled debt restructuring as impaired. We include the impairment on
these nonperforming loans in the allowance unless it has already been recognized as a loss. At
December 31, 2008, we included $816 million in the allowance related to these impaired loans.

Reflected in the portions of the allowance previously described is an amount for imprecision
or uncertainty that incorporates the range of probable outcomes inherent in estimates used for the
allowance, which may change from period to period. This amount is the result of our judgment of
risks inherent in the portfolios, economic uncertainties, historical loss experience and other
subjective factors, including industry trends, calculated to better reflect our view of risk in
each loan portfolio.

In addition, the allowance for credit losses included a reserve for unfunded credit
commitments of $698 million at December 31, 2008.

The total allowance reflects management s estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan
portfolio at the balance sheet date. We consider the allowance for credit losses of $21.7 billion
adequate to cover credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit
commitments, at December 31, 2008.

Nonaccrual loans were $6,800 million and $2,679 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. There were no loans accounted for under SOP 03-3 recorded as nonaccrual. Loans past
due 90 days or more as to interest or principal and still accruing interest were $12,645 million at
December 31, 2008, and $6,393 million at December 31, 2007. The 2008 and 2007 balances included
$8,185 million and $4,834 million, respectively, in advances pursuant to our servicing agreements
to the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) mortgage pools and similar loans whose
repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of
Veterans Affairs.

The recorded investment in impaired loans included in nonaccrual loans and the methodology
used to measure impairment follows.

The average recorded investment in these impaired loans during 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $1,952
million, $313 million and $173 million, respectively.

When the ultimate collectibility of the total principal of an impaired loan is in doubt, all
payments are applied to principal, under the cost recovery method. When the ultimate collectibility
of the total principal of an impaired loan is not in doubt, contractual interest is credited to
interest income when received, under the cash basis method. Total interest income recognized for
impaired loans in 2008, 2007 and 2006 under the cash basis method was not significant.

SOP
03-3  

At December 31, 2008, acquired loans within the scope of SOP 03-3 had an unpaid principal balance
(less prior charge-offs) of $93.9 billion and a carrying value of $58.8 billion. The following
table provides details on the SOP 03-3 loans acquired from Wachovia.

(1) 
       
     Includes $37.2 billion in principal cash flows (purchase accounting adjustments) not expected
to be collected, $2.3 billion of pre-acquisition charge-offs and $2.5 billion of future interest
not expected to be collected. 

(2) 
       
     Represents undiscounted expected principal and interest cash flows. 

109  

Note 7:     Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets

Depreciation and amortization expense for premises and equipment was $861 million, $828 million and
$737 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Net gains on dispositions of premises and equipment, included in noninterest expense, were $22
million, $3 million and $13 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

We have obligations under a number of noncancelable operating leases for premises and
equipment. The terms of these leases are primarily up to 15 years, with the longest up to 97 years,
and many provide for periodic adjustment of rentals based on changes in various economic
indicators. Some leases also include a renewal option. The following table provides the future
minimum payments under capital leases and noncancelable operating leases, net of sublease rentals,
with terms greater than one year as of December 31, 2008.

Operating lease rental expense (predominantly for premises), net of rental income, was $709
million, $673 million and $631 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The components of other assets were:

(1) 
       
     Principal investments are recorded at fair value with realized and unrealized gains and losses
included in net gains (losses) from equity investments in the income statement. 

(2) 
       
     Consistent with regulatory reporting requirements, foreclosed assets include foreclosed real
estate securing GNMA loans. Both principal and interest for GNMA loans secured by the foreclosed
real estate are collectible because the GNMA loans are insured by the Federal Housing
Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs. 

Income related to nonmarketable equity investments was:

110  

Note 8:     Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities

Involvement with SPEs  

We enter into various types of on and off-balance sheet transactions with special purpose entities
(SPEs) in the normal course of business. SPEs are corporations, trusts or partnerships that are
established for a limited purpose. We use SPEs to create sources of financing, liquidity and
regulatory capital capacity for the Company, as well as sources of financing and liquidity, and
investment products for our clients. Our use of SPEs generally consists of various securitization
activities with SPEs whereby financial assets are transferred to an SPE and repackaged as
securities or similar interests that are sold to investors. In connection with our securitization
activities, we have various forms of ongoing involvement with SPEs, which may include:

underwriting securities issued by SPEs and subsequently making markets in those securities; 

providing liquidity facilities to support short-term obligations of SPEs issued to third party
investors; 

providing credit enhancement on securities issued by SPEs or market value guarantees
of assets held by SPEs through the use of letters of credit, financial guarantees, credit default
swaps and total return swaps; 

entering into other derivative contracts with SPEs; 

holding
senior or subordinated interests in SPEs; 

acting as servicer or investment manager for SPEs; and 

providing administrative or trustee services to SPEs. 

The SPEs we use are primarily either qualifying SPEs (QSPEs) or variable interest entities
(VIEs). A QSPE represents a specific type of SPE. A QSPE is a passive entity that has significant
limitations on the types of assets and derivative instruments it may own and the extent of
activities and decision making in which it may engage. For example, a QSPE s activities are
generally limited to purchasing assets, passing along the cash flows of those assets to its
investors, servicing its assets and, in certain transactions, issuing liabilities. Among other
restrictions on a QSPE s activities, a QSPE may not actively manage its assets through
discretionary sales or modifications. A QSPE is exempt from consolidation.

A VIE is an entity that has either a total equity investment that is insufficient to permit
the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support or whose
equity investors lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. A VIE is
consolidated by its primary beneficiary, which is the entity that, through its variable interests,
absorbs the majority of a VIE s variability. A variable interest is a contractual, ownership or
other interest that changes with changes in the fair value of the VIE s net assets.

The classifications of assets and liabilities in our balance sheet associated with our
transactions with QSPEs and VIEs are as follows:

(1) 
       
     Excludes certain debt securities related to loans serviced for the Federal National Mortgage
Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and Government National Mortgage
Association (GNMA). 

(2) 
       
     Excludes related allowance for loan losses. 

The following disclosures regarding our significant continuing involvement with QSPEs and
unconsolidated VIEs exclude entities where our only involvement is in the form of: (1) investments
in trading securities, (2) investments in securities or loans underwritten by third parties, (3)
certain derivatives such as interest rate swaps or cross currency

swaps that have customary terms, and (4) administrative or trustee services. We have also excluded
investments accounted for in accordance with the AICPA Investment Company Audit Guide, investments
accounted for under the cost method, and investments accounted for under the equity method.

111  

Transactions with QSPEs  

We use QSPEs to securitize consumer and commercial real estate loans and other types of financial
assets, including student loans, auto loans and municipal bonds. We typically retain the servicing
rights from these sales and may continue to hold other beneficial interests in QSPEs. We may also
provide liquidity to investors in the beneficial interests and

credit enhancements in the form of standby letters of credit. Through these securitizations we may
be exposed to liability under limited amounts of recourse as well as standard representations and
warranties we make to purchasers and issuers. The amount recorded for this liability is included in
other commitments and guarantees in the following table.

A summary of our involvements with QSPEs is as follows:

(1) 
       
     Represents the remaining principal balance of assets held by QSPEs using the most current
information available. 

(2) 
       
     Excludes certain debt securities held related to loans serviced for
FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA. 

(3) 
       
     Represents the carrying amount of our continuing involvement plus remaining undrawn liquidity
and lending commitments, notional amount of net written derivative contracts, and notional amount
of other commitments and guarantees. 

We recognized net gains of $10 million from sales of financial assets in securitizations in
2007 (none in 2008).

Additionally, we had the following cash flows with our securitization trusts.

(1) 
       
     Represents cash flow data for all loans securitized in 2008 and 2007. For 2007, cash flow data
excluded loans securitized through FNMA and FHLMC and those loans we continued to service, but for
which we had no other continuing involvement. 

112  

For securitizations completed in 2008 and 2007, we used the following assumptions to determine
the fair value

of mortgage servicing rights and other interests held at the date of securitization.

(1) 
       
     Constant prepayment rate. 

(2) 
       
     Represents weighted averages for all other interests held resulting from securitizations
completed in 2008 and 2007. 

Key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of the current fair value to immediate adverse
changes in those assumptions at December 31, 2008, for residential and

commercial mortgage servicing rights, and other interests held related to residential mortgage loan
securitizations are presented in the following table.

Adverse changes in key economic assumptions used to measure the fair value of retained
interests in securitizations that we acquired in the Wachovia acquisition were analyzed. The price
sensitivity to these adverse changes was not significant and, accordingly, are not included in the
table above.

The sensitivities in the table above are hypothetical and caution should be exercised when
relying on this data. Changes in fair value based on a 10% variation in assumptions generally
cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in the assumption to the change in
fair value may not be linear. Also, in the table above, the effect of a variation in a particular
assumption on the fair value of

the other interests held is calculated independently without changing any other assumptions. In
reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in others (for example, changes in prepayment
speed estimates could result in changes in the discount rates), which might magnify or counteract
the sensitivities.

We also retained some AAA-rated fixed-rate and adjustable rate mortgage-backed securities
(MBS). The fair value of the securities was $5,147 million and $7,423 million at December 31, 2008
and 2007, respectively, and was determined using an independent third party pricing service.

113  

The table below presents information about the principal balances of owned and securitized
loans.

(1) 
       
     For 2008, represents loans in the balance sheet or that have been securitized and includes
residential mortgages sold to FNMA and FHLMC and securitizations where servicing is our only form
of continuing involvement. For 2007, excluded loans securitized through FNMA and FHLMC and those we
continued to service, but for which we have no other continuing involvement. 

(2) 
       
     Delinquent loans are 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest as well as nonaccrual
loans. 

(3) 
       
     Delinquent loans and net charge-offs exclude loans sold to FNMA and FHLMC. We continue to
service the loans and would only experience a loss if required to repurchase a delinquent loan due
to a breach in original representations and warranties associated with our underwriting standards. 

114  

Transactions with VIEs  

Our transactions with VIEs include securitization, investment and financing activities involving
collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) backed by asset-backed and commercial real estate
securities, collateralized loan obligations (CLOs) backed by corporate loans or bonds, and other
types of

structured financing. We have various forms of involvement with SPEs, including holding senior or
subordinated interests, entering into liquidity arrangements, credit default swaps and other
derivative contracts.

A summary of our involvements with off-balance sheet (unconsolidated) VIEs is as follows:

(1) 
       
     Represents the remaining principal balance of assets held by unconsolidated VIEs using the most
current information available. For VIEs that obtain exposure to assets synthetically through
derivative instruments, the remaining notional amount of the derivative is included in the asset
balance. 

(2) 
       
     Contains investments in auction rate securities issued by VIEs that we do not sponsor and,
accordingly, are unable to obtain the total assets of the entity. 

(3) 
       
     Represents the carrying amount of the continuing involvement plus remaining undrawn liquidity
and lending commitments, notional amount of net written derivative contracts, and notional amount
of other commitments and guarantees. 

COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS AND COLLATERALIZED LOAN OBLIGATIONS  A CDO or CLO is a
securitization where an SPE purchases a pool of assets consisting of asset-backed securities or
loans and issues multiple tranches of equity or notes to investors. In some transactions a portion
of the assets are obtained synthetically through the use of derivatives such as credit default
swaps or total return swaps. Generally, CDOs and CLOs are structured on behalf of a third party
asset manager that typically selects and manages the assets for the term of the CDO or CLO.
Typically, the asset manager has some discretion to manage the sale of assets of, or derivatives
used by the CDOs and CLOs.

Prior to the securitization, we may provide all or substantially all of the warehouse
financing to the asset manager. The asset manager uses this financing to purchase the assets into a
bankruptcy remote SPE during the warehouse period. At the completion of the warehouse period, the
assets are sold to the CDO or CLO and the warehouse financing is repaid with the proceeds received
from the securitization s investors.

The warehousing period is generally less than 12 months in duration. In the event the
securitization does not take place, the assets in the warehouse are liquidated. We consolidate the
warehouse SPEs when we are the primary beneficiary. We are the primary beneficiary when we provide
substantially all of the financing and therefore absorb the majority of the variability. Sometimes
we have loss sharing arrangements whereby a third party asset manager agrees to absorb the credit
and market risk during the warehousing period or upon liquidation of the collateral in the event a
securitization does not take place. In those circumstances we do not consolidate the warehouse SPE
because the third party asset manager absorbs the majority of the variability through the loss
sharing arrangement.

In addition to our role as arranger and warehouse financing provider, we may have other forms
of involvement with these transactions. Such involvements may include underwriter, liquidity
provider, derivative counterparty, secondary market maker or investor. For certain transactions, we
may also

115  

act as the collateral manager or servicer. We receive fees in connection with our role as
collateral manager or servicer. We also earn fees for arranging these transactions and distributing
the securities.

We assess whether we are the primary beneficiary of CDOs and CLOs at inception of the
transactions based on our expectation of the variability associated with our continuing
involvement. Subsequently, we monitor our ongoing involvement in these transactions to determine if
a more frequent assessment of variability is necessary. Variability in these transactions may be
created by credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk or liquidity risk associated with the CDO s
or CLO s assets. Our assessment of the variability is performed qualitatively because our
continuing involvement is typically senior in priority to the third party investors in
transactions. In most cases, we are not the primary beneficiary of these transactions because we do
not retain the subordinate interests in these transactions and, accordingly, do not absorb the
majority of the variability.

MULTI-SELLER COMMERCIAL PAPER CONDUIT  We administer a multi-seller asset-backed commercial paper
(ABCP) conduit that arranges financing for certain client transactions. We acquired the
relationship with this conduit in the Wachovia merger. This conduit is a bankruptcy remote entity
that makes loans to, or purchases certificated interests from SPEs established by our clients
(sellers) and which are secured by pools of financial assets. The conduit funds itself through the
issuance of highly rated commercial paper to third party investors. The primary source of repayment
of the commercial paper is the cash flows from the conduit s assets or the re-issuance of
commercial paper upon maturity. The conduit s assets are structured with deal-specific credit
enhancements generally in the form of overcollateralization provided by the seller, but also may
include subordinated interests, cash reserve accounts, third party credit support facilities and
excess spread capture. The table below summarizes the weighted average credit rating equivalents of
the conduit s assets. These ratings are as of December 31, 2008, and are based on internal rating
criteria. The weighted average life of the conduit s assets was 3.0 years at December 31, 2008.

The composition of the conduit s assets was as follows:

The credit rating of the conduit s assets was as follows:

The timely repayment of the commercial paper is further supported by asset-specific liquidity
facilities in the form of asset purchase agreements that we provide. Each facility is equal to 102%
of the conduit s funding commitments to a client. The aggregate amount of liquidity must be equal
to or greater than all the commercial paper issued by the conduit. At the discretion of the
administrator, we may be required to purchase assets from the conduit at par value plus interest,
including situations where the conduit is unable to issue commercial paper. Par value may be
different from fair value.

We receive fees in connection with our role as administrator and liquidity provider. We may
also receive fees related to the structuring of the conduit s transactions.

The weighted-average life of the commercial paper was 12.4 days in 2008 and the average yield
on the commercial paper was 2.57%. The ability of the conduit to issue commercial paper, which is a
function of general market conditions and the credit rating of the liquidity provider was
challenging during 2008 as a result of the credit market disruption. Although investors continued
to purchase the conduit s commercial paper, they did so at higher spreads and shorter maturities.
When the conduit s commercial paper maturities exceeded investor demand, Wachovia purchased some of
the conduit s commercial paper. During 2008, the maximum amount of commercial paper purchased on
any given day was $3.9 billion, or 33.6%, of the then outstanding commercial paper. These purchases
were made at market rates. At December 31, 2008, we did not hold any of the commercial paper issued
by the conduit. All commercial paper purchased was repaid at maturity through the issuance of new
commercial paper notes to third parties.

The conduit has issued a subordinated note to a third party investor. The subordinated note is
designed to absorb the expected variability associated with the credit risk in the conduit s assets
as well as assets that may be funded by us as a result of a purchase under the provisions of the
liquidity purchase agreements. Actual credit losses incurred on the conduit s assets or assets
purchased under the liquidity facilities are absorbed first by the subordinated note prior to any
allocation to us as the liquidity provider. At December 31, 2008, the balance of the subordinated
note was $13 million and it matures in 2016.

116  

At least quarterly, or more often if circumstances dictate, we assess whether we are the
primary beneficiary of the conduit based on our expectation of the variability associated with our
liquidity facility and administrative fee arrangement. Such circumstances may include changes to
deal-specific liquidity arrangements, changes to the terms of the conduit s assets or the purchase
of the conduit s commercial paper. We assess variability using a quantitative expected loss model.
The key inputs to the model include internally generated risk ratings that are mapped to third
party rating agency loss-given-default assumptions. We do not consolidate the conduit because our
expected loss model indicates that the holder of the subordinated note absorbs the majority of the
variability of the conduits  assets. Although we are not required to consolidate the conduit,
consolidation of the conduit would not have a material effect on our leverage ratio or Tier 1
capital.

ASSET-BASED LENDING STRUCTURES  We engage in various forms of structured lending arrangements with
VIEs that are collateralized by various asset classes including energy contracts, auto and other
transportation leases, intellectual property, equipment and general corporate credit. We typically
provide senior financing, and may act as an interest rate swap or commodity derivative counterparty
when necessary. In most cases, we are not the primary beneficiary of these structures because we do
not retain a majority of the variability in these transactions.

For example, we had investments in asset backed securities that were collateralized by auto
leases and cash reserves. These fixed-rate securities have been structured as single-tranche, fully
amortizing, unrated bonds that are equivalent to investment-grade securities due to their
significant overcollateralization. The securities are issued by SPEs that have been formed and
sponsored by third party auto financing institutions primarily because they require a source of
liquidity to fund ongoing vehicle sales operations. The structures are designed to keep the
overwhelming majority of the primary risks associated with structures (credit risk and residual
value risk of the autos) with the sponsors of the SPEs.

TAX CREDIT STRUCTURES  We make passive investments in affordable housing and sustainable energy
projects that are designed to generate a return primarily through the realization of federal tax
credits. In some instances, our investments in these structures may require that we fund future
capital commitments at the discretion of the project sponsors. While the size of our investment in
a single entity may at times exceed 50% of the outstanding equity interests, we do not consolidate
these structures due to performance guarantees provided by the project sponsors giving them a
majority of the variability.

INVESTMENT FUNDS  We have investments of $2.1 billion and lending arrangements of $349 million with
certain funds managed by one of our majority owned subsidiaries. In addition, we also provide a
default protection agreement to a third party lender to one of these funds. Our involvements in
these funds are either senior or of equal priority to third party investors. We do not consolidate
the investment funds because we do not absorb the majority of the expected future variability
associated with the funds  assets, including variability associated with credit, interest rate and
liquidity risks.

We are also a passive investor in various investment funds that invest directly in private
equity and mezzanine securities as well as funds sponsored by select private equity and venture
capital groups. We also invest in hedge funds on behalf of clients. In these transactions, we use
various derivative contracts that are designed to provide our clients with the returns of the
underlying hedge fund investments. We do not consolidate these funds because we do not hold a
majority of the subordinate interests in these funds.

MONEY MARKET FUNDS  We entered into a capital support agreement in first quarter 2008 for up to $130
million related to an investment in a structured investment vehicle (SIV) held by our AAA-rated
non-government money market funds. In third quarter 2008, we fulfilled our obligation under this
agreement by purchasing the SIV investment from the funds. At December 31, 2008, the SIV investment
was recorded as a debt security in our securities available-for-sale portfolio. In addition, at
December 31, 2008, we had outstanding support agreements of $101 million to certain other funds to
support the value of certain investments held by those funds. We recorded a guarantee liability of
$10 million in fourth quarter 2008 in connection with these support agreements. We do not
consolidate these funds because we are generally not responsible for investment losses incurred by
our funds, and we do not have a contractual or implicit obligation to indemnify such losses or
provide additional support to the funds. While we elected to enter into the capital support
agreements for the funds, we are not obligated and may elect not to provide additional support to
these funds or other funds in the future.

CREDIT-LINKED NOTE STRUCTURES  We structure transactions for clients designed to provide investors
with specified returns based on the returns of an underlying security, loan or index. To generate
regulatory capital for the Company, we also structure similar transactions that are indexed to the
returns of a pool of underlying securities or loans that we own. These transactions result in the
issuance of credit-linked notes. These transactions typically involve a bankruptcy remote SPE that
synthetically obtains exposure to the underlying through a derivative instrument such as a written
credit default swap or total return swap. The SPE issues notes

117  

to investors based on the referenced underlying. Proceeds received from the issuance of these notes
are usually invested in investment grade financial assets. We are typically the derivative
counterparty to these transactions and administrator responsible for investing the note proceeds.
We do not consolidate these SPEs because we typically do not hold any of the notes that they issue.

OTHER TRANSACTIONS WITH VIEs  In August 2008, Wachovia reached an agreement to purchase at par
auction rate securities (ARS) that were sold to third party investors by two of its subsidiaries.
See Note 15 for more information on the details of this agreement. ARS are debt instruments with
long-term maturities, but which reprice more frequently. Certain of these securities were issued by
VIEs. At December 31, 2008, we held in our securities available-for-sale portfolio $3.7 billion of
ARS issued by VIEs that we redeemed pursuant to this agreement. At December 31, 2008, we had a
liability in our balance sheet of $91 million for additional losses on anticipated future
redemptions of ARS issued by VIEs. Were we to redeem all remaining ARS issued by VIEs that are
subject to the agreement, our estimated maximum exposure to loss would be $620 million; however,
certain of these securities may be repaid in full by the issuer prior to redemption. We do not
consolidate the VIEs that issued the ARS because

we do not expect to absorb the majority of the expected future variability associated with the VIEs 
assets.

TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES  In addition to the involvements disclosed in the above table, we have
$16.6 billion of debt financing through the issuance of trust preferred securities at December 31,
2008. In these transactions, VIEs that we wholly own issue preferred equity or debt securities to
third party investors. All of the proceeds of the issuance are invested in debt securities that we
issue to the VIEs. In certain instances, we may provide liquidity to third party investors that
purchase long-term securities that reprice frequently issued by VIEs. The VIE s operations and cash
flows relate only to the issuance, administration and repayment of the securities held by third
parties. We do not consolidate these VIEs because the VIEs  sole assets are receivables from us.
This is the case even though we own all of the VIEs  voting equity shares, have fully guaranteed
the VIEs  obligations and may have the right to redeem the third party securities under certain
circumstances. We report the debt securities that we issue to the VIEs as long-term debt in our
consolidated balance sheet.

A summary of our transactions with VIEs accounted for as secured borrowings and involvements
with consolidated VIEs is as follows:

(1) 
       
     Amounts exclude loan loss reserves, and total assets may differ from consolidated assets due to
the different measurement methods used depending on the assets  classifications. 

We have raised financing through the securitization of certain financial assets in
transactions with VIEs accounted for as secured borrowings. We also consolidate VIEs where we are
the primary beneficiary. In certain transactions we provide contractual support in the form of
limited recourse

and liquidity to facilitate the remarketing of short-term securities issued to third party
investors. Other than this limited contractual support, the assets of the VIEs are the sole source
of repayment of the securities held by third parties.

118  

Note 9:     Mortgage Banking Activities

Mortgage banking activities, included in the Community Banking and Wholesale Banking operating
segments, consist of residential and commercial mortgage originations and servicing.

The changes in residential MSRs measured using the fair value method were:

(1) 
       
     Principally reflects changes in discount rates and prepayment speed assumptions, mostly due to
changes in interest rates. 

(2) 
       
     Represents changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows over time. 

The changes in amortized MSRs were:

(1) 
       
     Based on December 31, 2008, assumptions, the weighted-average amortization period for MSRs
added during the year was approximately 7.6 years. 

(2) 
       
     There was no valuation allowance for the periods presented. 

The components of our managed servicing portfolio were:

(1) 
       
     Consists of 1-4 family first mortgage and commercial mortgage loans. 

(2) 
       
     Consists of mortgages
held for sale and 1-4 family first mortgage loans. 

The components of mortgage banking noninterest income were:

(1) 
       
     Includes contractually specified servicing fees, late charges and other ancillary revenues.
Also includes impairment write-downs on other interests held of $26 million for 2006. There were no
impairment write-downs for 2007 or 2008. 

(2) 
       
     Principally reflects changes in discount rates and prepayment speed assumptions, mostly due to
changes in interest rates. 

(3) 
       
     Represents changes due to collection/realization of expected cash
flows over time. 

(4) 
       
     Represents results from free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the risk of
changes in fair value of MSRs. See Note 16   Free-Standing Derivatives for additional discussion
and detail. 

119  

Note 10:     Intangible Assets

The gross carrying amount of intangible assets and accumulated amortization was:

(1) 
       
     See Note 9 for additional information on MSRs. 

The following table provides the current year and estimated future amortization expense for
amortized intangible assets.

We based our projections of amortization expense
shown above on existing asset balances at December 31,
2008. Future amortization expense will vary based on

additional core deposit or other intangibles acquired through
business combinations.

120  

Note 11:     Goodwill

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill as allocated to our operating segments for goodwill
impairment analysis were:

(1) 
       
     To reflect the realignment of our corporate trust business from Community Banking into
Wholesale Banking in first quarter 2008, balances for prior periods have been revised. 

For goodwill impairment testing, enterprise-level goodwill
acquired in business combinations is allocated to reporting units
based on the relative fair value of assets acquired and recorded
in the respective reporting units. Through this allocation, we
assigned enterprise-level goodwill to the reporting units that
are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
We used discounted estimated future net cash flows to
evaluate goodwill reported at all reporting units.

For our goodwill impairment analysis, we allocate all
of the goodwill to the individual operating segments. For
management reporting we do not allocate all of the goodwill
to the individual operating segments; some is allocated at
the enterprise level. See Note 24 for further information
on management reporting. The balances of goodwill for
management reporting were:

(1) 
       
     To reflect the realignment of our corporate trust business from Community Banking into
Wholesale Banking in first quarter 2008, balances for prior periods have been revised. 

121  

Note 12:      Deposits

The total of time certificates of deposit and other
time deposits issued by domestic offices was $210,540
million and $46,351 million at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively.  Substantially all of these
deposits were interest bearing.  The contractual
maturities of these deposits follow.

Of these deposits, the amount of time deposits
with a denomination of $100,000 or more was $90,123
million and $16,890 million at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively. The contractual maturities of
these deposits follow.

Time certificates of deposit and other time
deposits issued by foreign offices with a denomination
of $100,000 or more represent a major portion of all
of our foreign deposit liabilities of $40,941 million
and $54,549 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

Demand deposit overdrafts of $1,067 million and
$845 million were included as loan balances at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Note 13:      Short-Term Borrowings

The table below shows selected information for short-term borrowings, which generally mature in
 less than 30 days.

122  

Note 14:     Long-Term Debt

Following is a summary of our long-term debt based on
original maturity (reflecting unamortized debt discounts

and premiums, and purchase accounting adjustments for debt assumed in the Wachovia acquisition, where applicable):

(continued on following page) 

123  

(1) 
       
     We entered into interest rate swap agreements for most of these notes, whereby we receive
fixed-rate interest payments approximately equal to interest on the notes and make interest
payments based on an average one-month, three-month or six-month London Interbank Offered Rate
(LIBOR). 

(2) 
       
     On December 10, 2008, Wells Fargo issued $3 billion of 3% fixed senior unsecured notes and $3
billion of floating senior unsecured notes both maturing on December 9, 2011. These notes are
guaranteed under the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and are backed by the full
faith and credit of the United States. 

(3) 
       
     We entered into interest rate swap agreements for a portion of these notes, whereby we
receive variable-rate interest payments and make interest payments based on a fixed rate. 

(4) 
       
     The extendable notes are floating-rate securities with an initial maturity of 13 or 24
months, which can be extended on a rolling monthly or quarterly basis, respectively, to a
final maturity of five years at the investor s option. 

(5) 
       
     Consists of long-term notes where the performance of the note is linked to an embedded
equity, commodity, or currency index, or basket of indices accounted for separately from the
note as a free-standing derivative. For information on embedded
derivatives, see Note 16  
Free-standing derivatives. 

(6) 
       
     On April 15, 2003, we issued $3 billion of convertible senior debentures as a private
placement. In November 2004, we amended the indenture under which the debentures were issued
to eliminate a provision in the indenture that prohibited us from paying cash upon conversion
of the debentures if an event of default as defined in the indenture exists at the time of
conversion. We then made an irrevocable election under the indenture on December 15, 2004,
that upon conversion of the debentures, we must satisfy the accreted value of the obligation
(the amount of accrued benefit of the holder exclusive of the conversion spread) in cash and
may satisfy the conversion spread (the excess conversion value over the accreted value) in
either cash or stock. 

(7) 
       
     On May 1, 2008, the $3 billion of convertible senior debentures were remarketed at a rate of
3.55175% per annum. Upon the remarketing event the debentures were no longer convertible
securities. 

(8) 
       
     Effective December 31, 2003, as a result of the adoption of FIN 46 (revised December 2003),
 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  (FIN 46(R)), we deconsolidated certain
wholly-owned trusts formed for the sole purpose of issuing trust preferred securities (the
Trusts). The junior subordinated debentures held by the Trusts are included in the Company s
long-term debt. 

(9) 
       
     On December 5, 2006, Wells Fargo Capital X issued 5.95% Capital Securities and used the
proceeds to purchase from the Parent 5.95% Capital Efficient Notes (the Notes) due 2086
(scheduled maturity 2036). When it issued the Notes, the Parent entered into a Replacement
Capital Covenant (the Covenant) in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the
Parent s 5.625% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2034 that it will not repay, redeem or
repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, any part
of the Notes or the Capital Securities on or before December 1, 2066, unless the repayment,
redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified
securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the Covenant. For more
information, refer to the Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed December 5, 2006. 

124  

(10) 
       
     On May 25, 2007, Wells Fargo Capital XI issued 6.25% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities
(Enhanced TRUPS   ) (the 2007 Capital Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from the
Parent 6.25% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due 2067 (the 2007 Notes).
When it issued the 2007 Notes, the Parent entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the
2007 Covenant) in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Parent s 5.625% Junior
Subordinated Debentures due 2034 that it will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and that none
of its subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the 2007 Notes or the 2007 Capital Securities
on or before June 15, 2057, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the
net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other
terms and conditions set forth in the 2007 Covenant. For more information, refer to the 2007
Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
May 25, 2007. 

(11) 
       
     On March 12, 2008, Wells Fargo Capital XII issued 7.875% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities
(Enhanced TRUPS   ) (the First 2008 Capital Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from
the Parent 7.875% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due 2068 (the First 2008
Notes). When it issued the First 2008 Notes, the Parent entered into a Replacement Capital
Covenant (the First 2008 Covenant) in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the
Parent s 5.375% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2035 that it will not repay, redeem or
repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the First 2008 Notes
or the First 2008 Capital Securities on or before March 15, 2048, unless the repayment,
redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain
qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the First
2008 Covenant. For more information, refer to the First 2008 Covenant, which was filed as
Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 12, 2008. 

(12) 
       
     On May 19, 2008, Wells Fargo Capital XIII issued 7.70% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal
Preferred Purchase Securities (PPS) (the Second 2008 Capital Securities). The proceeds were
used to purchase Remarketable 7.50% Junior Subordinated Notes maturing in 2044 (the Second
2008 Notes) from the Parent. In connection with the issuance of the Second 2008 Capital
Securities, the Trust and the Parent entered into a forward stock purchase contract that
obligates the Trust to purchase the Parent s Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A
(the Series A Preferred Stock) and obligates the Parent to make payments to the Trust of 0.20%
per annum through the stock purchase date, expected to be March 26, 2013 (the Series A Stock
Purchase Date). Prior to the Series A Stock Purchase Date, the Trust is required to remarket
and sell the Second 2008 Notes to third party investors to generate cash proceeds to satisfy
its obligation to purchase the Series A Preferred Stock. When it issued the Second 2008 Notes,
the Parent entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the Second 2008 Covenant) in which it
agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Parent s 5.375% Junior Subordinated Debentures
due 2035 (the Covered Debt) that, after the date it notifies the holders of the Covered Debt
of the Second 2008 Covenant, it will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and that none of its
subsidiaries will purchase, (i) any part of the Second 2008 Notes prior to the Series A Stock
Purchase Date or (ii) any part of the Second 2008 Capital Securities or the Series A Preferred
Stock prior to the date that is 10 years after the Series A Stock Purchase Date, unless the
repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the issuance of
certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the
Second 2008 Covenant. For more information, refer to the Second 2008 Covenant, which was filed
as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 19, 2008. 

(13) 
       
     On September 10, 2008, Wells Fargo Capital XV issued 9.75% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal PPS
(the Third 2008 Capital Securities). The proceeds were used to purchase Remarketable 9.25%
Junior Subordinated Notes maturing in 2044 (the Third 2008 Notes) from the Parent. In
connection with the issuance of the Third 2008 Capital Securities, the Trust and the Parent
entered into a forward stock purchase contract that obligates the Trust to purchase the
Parent s Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B (the Series B Preferred Stock) and
obligates the Parent to make payments to the Trust of 0.50% per annum through the stock
purchase date, expected to be September 26, 2013 (the Series B Stock Purchase Date). Prior to
the Series B Stock Purchase Date, the Trust is required to remarket and sell the Third 2008
Notes to third party investors to generate cash proceeds to satisfy its obligation to purchase
the Series B Preferred Stock. When it issued the Third 2008 Notes, the Parent entered into a
Replacement Capital Covenant (the Third 2008 Covenant) in which it agreed for the benefit of
the holders of the Covered Debt that, after the date it notifies the holders of the Covered
Debt of the Third 2008 Covenant, it will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and that none of its
subsidiaries will purchase, (i) any part of the Third 2008 Notes prior to the Series B Stock
Purchase Date or (ii) any part of the Third 2008 Capital Securities or the Series B Preferred
Stock prior to the date that is 10 years after the Series B Stock Purchase Date, unless the
repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the issuance of
certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the
Third 2008 Covenant. For more information, refer to the Third 2008 Covenant, which was filed
as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 10, 2008. 

(14) 
       
     On July 1, 2008, Wells Fargo   Company acquired the assets and liabilities of United
Bancorporation of Wyoming, Inc., which included Trust Preferred Securities. 

(15) 
       
     On February 15, 2007, Wachovia Capital Trust IV issued 6.375% Trust Preferred Securities (the
Second Wachovia Trust Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from Wachovia 6.375%
Extendible Long Term Subordinated Notes (the Second Wachovia Notes). When it issued the Second
Wachovia Notes, Wachovia entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the Second Wachovia
Covenant) in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Wachovia Covered Debt that
it will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, any
part of the Second Wachovia Notes or the Second Wachovia Trust Securities on or after the
scheduled maturity date of the Second Wachovia Notes and prior to the date that is 20 years
prior to the final repayment date of the Second Wachovia Notes, unless the repayment,
redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain
qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the Second
Wachovia Covenant. In connection with the Wachovia acquisition, the Parent assumed all of
Wachovia s obligations under the Second Wachovia Covenant. For more information, refer to the
Second Wachovia Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Wachovia s Current Report on Form
8-K filed February 15, 2007. 

(16) 
       
     On May 8, 2007, Wachovia Capital Trust IX issued 6.375% Trust Preferred Securities (the Third
Wachovia Trust Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from Wachovia 6.375% Extendible
Long Term Subordinated Notes (the Third Wachovia Notes). When it issued the Third Wachovia
Notes, Wachovia entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the Third Wachovia Covenant) in
which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Wachovia Covered Debt that it will not
repay, redeem or repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the
Third Wachovia Notes or the Third Wachovia Trust Securities (i) on or after the earlier of the
date that is 30 years prior to the final repayment date of the Third Wachovia Notes and the
scheduled maturity date of the Third Wachovia Notes and (ii) prior to the later of the date
that is 20 years prior to the final repayment date of the Third Wachovia Notes and June 15,
2057, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the
issuance of certain qualified
securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the Third Wachovia
Covenant. In connection with the Wachovia acquisition, the Parent assumed all of Wachovia s
obligations under the Third Wachovia Covenant. For more information, refer to the Third Wachovia
Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Wachovia s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 8,
2007. 

(17) 
       
     On November 21, 2007, Wachovia Capital Trust X issued 7.85% Trust Preferred Securities (the
Fourth Wachovia Trust Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from Wachovia 7.85%
Extendible Long Term Subordinated Notes (the Fourth Wachovia Notes). When it issued the Fourth
Wachovia Notes, Wachovia entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the Fourth Wachovia
Covenant) in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Wachovia Covered Debt that
it will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, any
part of the Fourth Wachovia Notes or the Fourth Wachovia Trust Securities (i) on or after the
earlier of the date that is 30 years prior to the final repayment date of the Fourth Wachovia
Notes and the scheduled maturity date of the Fourth Wachovia Notes and (ii) prior to the later
of the date that is 20 years prior to the final repayment date of the Fourth Wachovia Notes
and December 15, 2057, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net
cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms
and conditions set forth in the Fourth Wachovia Covenant. In connection with the Wachovia
acquisition, the Parent assumed all of Wachovia s obligations under the Fourth Wachovia
Covenant. For more information, refer to the Fourth Wachovia Covenant, which was filed as
Exhibit 99.1 to Wachovia s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 21, 2007. 

(18) 
       
     On February 1, 2006, Wachovia Capital Trust III issued 5.80% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Wachovia
Income Trust Securities (the First Wachovia Trust Securities) and used the proceeds to
purchase from Wachovia Remarketable Junior Subordinated Notes due 2042 (the First Wachovia
Notes). In connection with the issuance of the First Wachovia Trust Securities, the Trust and
Wachovia entered into a forward stock purchase contract that obligates the Trust to purchase
Wachovia s Noncumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series I (the Series I Preferred
Stock) and obligates Wachovia to make payments to the Trust of 0.60% per annum through the
stock purchase date, expected to be March 15, 2011 (the Series I Stock Purchase Date). Prior
to the Series I Stock Purchase Date, the Trust is required to remarket and sell the First
Wachovia Notes to third party investors to generate cash proceeds to satisfy its obligation to
purchase the Series I Preferred Stock. When it issued the First Wachovia Notes, Wachovia
entered into a Declaration of Covenant (the First Wachovia Covenant) in which it agreed for
the benefit of the holders of the Wachovia s Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Deferrable
Interest Debentures due January 15, 2027 (the Wachovia Covered Debt) that it will repurchase
the First Wachovia Trust Securities or redeem or repurchase shares of the Series I Preferred
Stock only if and to the extent that the total redemption or repurchase price is equal to or
less than the net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities as described
in the First Wachovia Covenant. In connection with the Wachovia acquisition, the Parent
assumed all of Wachovia s obligations under the First Wachovia Covenant. For more information,
refer to the First Wachovia Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Wachovia s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed February 1, 2006. 

(19) 
       
     At December 31, 2008, bank notes of $19.9 billion had floating rates of interest ranging from
0.14% to 5.53%, and $644 million of the notes had fixed rates of interest ranging from 1.00%
to 5.00%. 

125  

Wells Fargo is participating in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation s (FDIC) Temporary
Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP). The TLGP has two components: the Debt Guarantee Program, which
provides a temporary guarantee of newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by eligible entities;
and the Transaction Account Guarantee Program, which provides a temporary unlimited guarantee of
funds in noninterest bearing transaction accounts at FDIC insured institutions. Under the Debt
Guarantee Program, we have $91.7 billion of remaining capacity to issue guaranteed debt as of
December 31, 2008. Eligible entities will be assessed fees payable to the FDIC for coverage under
the program. This assessment will be in addition to risk-based deposit insurance assessments
currently imposed under FDIC rules and regulations.

The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt obligations (based on final maturity dates)
as of December 31, 2008, follow.

The interest rates on floating-rate notes are determined periodically by formulas based on
certain money market rates, subject, on certain notes, to minimum or maximum interest rates.

As part of our long-term and short-term borrowing arrangements, we are subject to various
financial and operational covenants. Some of the agreements under which debt has been issued have
provisions that may limit the merger or sale of certain subsidiary banks and the issuance of
capital stock or convertible securities by certain subsidiary banks. At December 31, 2008, we were
in compliance with all the covenants.

Note 15:      Guarantees and Legal Actions

Guarantees  

Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us to make payments to a guaranteed party based
on an event or a change in an underlying asset, liability, rate or index.

Guarantees are generally in the form of securities lending indemnifications, standby letters of
credit, liquidity

agreements, written put options, recourse obligations, residual value guarantees and contingent
consideration. The following table shows carrying amount, maximum risk of loss on our guarantees,
and for December 31, 2008, the amount with a higher risk of payment.

The amounts shown in the table above as having a higher payment risk represent the amount of
exposure for which there is a high likelihood that we will be required to make a payment or perform
under the guarantee. Such payment may not result in a loss and, accordingly, the higher payment
risk column is not an indication of loss probability. The risk of payment or performance is
considered high if the underlying assets under the guarantee have an external rating that is

below
investment grade or an internal credit default grade that is equivalent to a below investment grade
external rating. In rare circumstances for which neither external nor internal ratings are
available, we determine the current status of payment risk based on whether historical experience
indicates a higher likelihood of performance. We assumed substantially all of the guarantees in the
table above in the Wachovia acquisition.

126  

We issue standby letters of credit, which include performance and financial guarantees, for
customers in connection with contracts between our customers and third parties. Standby letters of
credit are agreements where we are obligated to make payment to a third party on behalf of a
customer in the event the customer fails to meet their contractual obligations. We consider the
credit risk in standby letters of credit and commercial and similar letters of credit in
determining the allowance for credit losses.

As a securities lending agent, we loan client securities, on a fully collateralized basis, to
third party broker/dealers. We indemnify our clients against broker default and, in certain cases,
against collateral losses. We support these guarantees with collateral, generally in the form of
cash or highly liquid securities, that is marked to market daily. At December 31, 2008, there was
$31.0 billion in collateral supporting the $30.1 billion loaned.

We enter into other types of indemnification agreements in the ordinary course of business
under which we agree to indemnify third parties against any damages, losses and expenses incurred
in connection with legal and other proceedings arising from relationships or transactions with us.
These relationships or transactions include those arising from service as a director or officer of
the Company, underwriting agreements relating to our securities, acquisition agreements and various
other business transactions or arrangements. Because the extent of our obligations under these
agreements depends entirely upon the occurrence of future events, our potential future
liability under these agreements is not determinable.

We provide liquidity facilities on all commercial paper issued by the conduit we administer.
We also provide liquidity to certain off-balance sheet entities that hold securitized fixed rate
municipal bonds and consumer or commercial assets that are partially funded with the issuance of
money market and other short-term notes. See Note 8 for additional information on these
arrangements.

Written put options are contracts that give the counterparty the right to sell to us an
underlying instrument held by the counterparty at a specified price, and include options, floors,
caps and credit default swaps. These written put option contracts generally permit net settlement.
While these derivative transactions expose us to risk in the event the option is exercised, we
manage this risk by entering into offsetting trades or by taking short positions in the underlying
instrument. We offset substantially all put options written to customers with purchased options.
Additionally, for certain of these contracts, we require the counterparty to pledge the underlying
instrument as collateral for the transaction. Our ultimate obligation under written put options is
based on future market conditions and is only quantifiable at settlement. See Note 8 for additional
information regarding transactions with VIEs and Note 16 for additional information regarding
written derivative contracts.

In certain loan sales or securitizations, we provide recourse to the buyer whereby we are
required to repurchase loans at par value plus accrued interest on the occurrence of certain
credit-related events within a certain period of time. The maximum risk of loss represents the
outstanding principal balance of the loans sold or securitized that are subject to recourse
provisions, but the likelihood of the repurchase of the entire balance is remote and amounts paid
can be recovered in whole or in part from the sale of collateral. In 2008 and in 2007, we did not
repurchase a significant amount of loans associated with these agreements.

We provide residual value guarantees as part of certain leasing transactions of corporate
assets, principally railcars. The lessors in these leases are generally large financial
institutions or their leasing subsidiaries. These guarantees protect the lessor from loss on sale
of the related asset at the end of the lease term. To the extent that a sale of the leased assets
results in proceeds less than a stated percent (generally 80% to 89%) of the asset s cost less
depreciation, we would be required to reimburse the lessor under our guarantee.

In connection with certain brokerage, asset management, insurance agency and other
acquisitions we have made, the terms of the acquisition agreements provide for deferred payments or
additional consideration, based on certain performance targets.

We have entered into various contingent performance guarantees through credit risk
participation arrangements. Under these agreements, if a customer defaults on its obligation to
perform under certain credit agreements with third parties, we will be required to make payments to
the third parties.

Wells Fargo is a Class B common shareholder of Visa Inc. (Visa). Based on agreements
previously executed among Wells Fargo, Visa and its predecessors and certain member banks of the
Visa USA network, we may be required to indemnify Visa with respect to certain covered litigation.
In conjunction with its initial public offering in March 2008, Visa deposited $3 billion of the
proceeds of the offering into a litigation escrow account to be used to satisfy settlement
obligations with respect to prior litigation and to make payments with respect to the future
resolution of the covered litigation. The extent of our future obligations, if any, under these
arrangements depends on the ultimate resolution of the covered litigation. In October 2008, Visa
entered into an agreement in principle to settle with Discover Financial Services (Discover). We
had previously established a reserve to reflect the fair value of our possible indemnification
obligation to Visa for the Discover litigation.

127  

Legal Actions  

Wells Fargo and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in a number of judicial, regulatory
and arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising from the conduct of our business activities.
These proceedings include actions brought against Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries with respect
to corporate related matters and transactions in which Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries were
involved. In addition, Wells Fargo and our subsidiaries may be requested to provide information or
otherwise cooperate with governmental authorities in the conduct of investigations of other persons
or industry groups.

Although there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome, Wells Fargo and/or our
subsidiaries have generally denied, or believe we have a meritorious defense and will deny,
liability in all significant litigation pending
against us, including the matters described below, and we intend to defend vigorously each
case, other than matters we describe as having settled. Reserves are established for legal claims
when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated.
The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts
reserved for those claims.

ADELPHIA LITIGATION  Wachovia Bank, N.A. and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, are defendants in
an adversary proceeding previously pending in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern
District of New York related to the bankruptcy of Adelphia Communications Corporation (Adelphia).
The Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors in Adelphia s bankruptcy case filed the claims; the
current plaintiff is the Adelphia Recovery Trust, which was substituted as the plaintiff pursuant
to Adelphia s confirmed plan of reorganization. In February 2006, an order was entered moving the
case to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint
asserts claims against the defendants under state law, bankruptcy law and the Bank Holding Company
Act and seeks equitable relief and an unspecified amount of compensatory and punitive damages. On
June 11, 2007, the Bankruptcy Court granted in part and denied in part the motions to dismiss filed
by the two Wachovia entities and other defendants. On January 17, 2008, the District Court affirmed
the decision of the Bankruptcy Court on the motion to dismiss with the exception that it dismissed
one additional claim. On July 17, 2008, the District Court issued a ruling dismissing all of the
bankruptcy related claims. The remaining claims essentially allege the banks should be liable to
Adelphia on theories of aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty and violation of the Bank
Holding Company Act. The case is now in discovery.

AUCTION RATE SECURITIES  On August 15, 2008, Wachovia Securities, LLC and Wachovia Capital
Markets, LLC (collectively the Wachovia Securities Affiliates) announced they had reached
settlements in principle with the Secretary of State for the State of Missouri (as the lead state
in the North American Securities Administrators Association task force investigating the marketing
and sale of auction rate securities), and with the New York State Attorney General s Office of
their respective investigations of sales practice and other issues related to the sales of auction
rate securities (ARS). Wachovia Securities also announced a settlement in principle with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) of its similar investigation. Without admitting or denying
liability, the agreements in principle require that the Wachovia Securities Affiliates purchase
certain ARS sold to customers in accounts at the Wachovia Securities Affiliates, reimburse
investors who sold ARS purchased at the Wachovia Securities Affiliates for less than par, provide
liquidity loans to customers at no net interest until the ARS are repurchased, offer to participate
in special arbitration procedures with customers who claim consequential damages from the lack of
liquidity in ARS and refund refinancing fees to certain municipal issuers who issued ARS and later
refinanced those securities through the Wachovia Securities Affiliates. Without admitting or
denying liability, the Wachovia Securities Affiliates will also pay a total fine of $50 million to
the state regulatory agencies and agreed to entry of consent orders by the two state regulators and
Wachovia Securities, LLC agreed to entry of an injunction by the SEC. All three settlements in
principle have been finalized. The Wachovia Securities Affiliates began the buy back of ARS in
November 2008. The second and final phase of the buy back will take place in June 2009.

Wells Fargo Investments, LLC (WFI), Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC, and Wells Fargo
Institutional Securities, LLC are engaged in discussions with regulators concerning the sale of
ARS. On November 20, 2008, the State of Washington Department of Financial Institutions filed a
proceeding entitled  In the Matter of determining whether there has been a violation of the
Securities Act of Washington by: Wells Fargo Investments, LLC; Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC;
and Wells Fargo Institutional Securities, LLC . The action seeks a cease and desist order against
violations of the anti-fraud and suitability provisions of the Washington Securities Act.

In addition, several purported civil class actions relating to the sale of ARS are currently
pending against various Wells Fargo affiliated defendants.

128  

DATA TREASURY LITIGATION  Wells Fargo   Company, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wachovia Bank, N.A.
and Wachovia Corporation are among over 55 defendants named in two actions asserting patent
infringement claims filed by Data Treasury Corporation in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Texas. Data Treasury seeks a declaration that its patents are valid and have been
infringed, and seeks damages and permanent injunctive relief. The cases are currently in discovery.

ELAVON LITIGATION  On January 16, 2009, Elavon, Inc., a provider of merchant processing
services, filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against
Wachovia Corporation, Wachovia Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo   Company, and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. The
complaint seeks equitable relief, including specific performance, and damages for Wachovia Bank s
allegedly wrongful termination of its merchant referral contract with Elavon. The complaint also
seeks damages, including punitive damages, against the Wells Fargo entities for tortious
interference with contractual relations.

ERISA LITIGATION  Seven purported class actions have been filed against Wachovia Corporation,
its board of directors and certain senior officers in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York on behalf of employees of Wachovia Corporation and its affiliates who held
shares of Wachovia Corporation common stock in their Wachovia Savings Plan accounts. The plaintiffs
allege breach of fiduciary duty under ERISA, among other things, claiming that the defendants
should not have permitted Wachovia Corporation common stock to remain an investment option in the
Savings Plan because alleged misleading disclosures relating to the Golden West mortgage portfolio,
exposure to CDOs and other problem loans, and other alleged misstatements made its stock a risky
and imprudent investment for employee retirement accounts.

GOLDEN WEST AND RELATED LITIGATION  A purported securities class action,  Lipetz v. Wachovia
Corporation, et al. , was filed on July 7, 2008, in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York by purported Wachovia Corporation shareholders alleging violations of Sections
10 and 20 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. An amended complaint was filed on December 15,
2008. Among other allegations, plaintiffs allege Wachovia Corporation s common stock price was
artificially inflated as a result of allegedly misleading disclosures relating to the Golden West
Financial Corp. (Golden West) mortgage portfolio, Wachovia Corporation s exposure to other mortgage
related products such as CDOs, control issues and auction rate securities. The defendants have
until February 27, 2009, to respond to the complaint.

A purported class action,  Miller, et al. v. Wachovia Corporation, et al. , was filed on January
31, 2008, against Wachovia Corporation, its board of directors and certain senior officers in the
New York Supreme Court for the County of Nassau, relating to Wachovia Corporation s May 2007
issuance of trust preferred securities. The plaintiffs allege violations of Sections 11, 12 and 15
of the Securities Act of 1933 as a result of allegedly misleading disclosures relating to the
Golden West mortgage portfolio. Wachovia Corporation removed the case to the U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of New York. On January 16, 2009, the case was voluntarily dismissed by
the plaintiff and, on the same day, was refiled in the Superior Court of the State of California,
Alameda County. A similar case,  Swiskay v. Wachovia Corporation, et al. , was filed on December 19,
2008, in the same court. The  Swiskay  case is essentially identical to the  Miller  case except it
includes allegations relating to additional Wachovia preferred offerings. On January 21, 2009, a
third case,  Orange County Employees  Retirement System, et al. v. Wachovia Corporation, et al. , was
also filed in the same California Superior Court on behalf of Orange County Employees  Retirement
System and others. The complaint contains similar allegations to the  Miller  and  Swiskay  cases,
except it includes some additional individuals and non-affiliated entities as defendants and adds
claims relating to additional issuances of preferred stock and debt securities. Wells Fargo will
file appropriate venue and other motions in response to these actions.

Several government agencies are investigating matters similar to the issues raised in this
litigation. Wells Fargo and its affiliates are cooperating fully.

INTERCHANGE LITIGATION  Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.,

Wells Fargo   Company, Wachovia Bank, N.A. and Wachovia Corporation are named as defendants,
separately or in combination, in putative class actions filed on behalf of a plaintiff class of
merchants and individual actions brought by individual merchants with regard to the interchange
fees associated with Visa and MasterCard payment card transactions. These actions have been
consolidated in the United States
 District Court for the Eastern District of New York. Visa,
MasterCard and several banks and bank holding companies are named as defendants in various of these
actions. The amended and consolidated complaint asserts claims against defendants based on alleged
violations of federal and state antitrust laws and seeks damages, as well as injunctive relief.
Plaintiff merchants allege that Visa, MasterCard and their member banks unlawfully colluded to set
interchange rates. Plaintiffs also allege that enforcement of certain Visa and MasterCard rules and
alleged tying and bundling of services offered to merchants are anticompetitive. Wells Fargo and
Wachovia, along with other members of Visa, are parties to Loss and Judgment Sharing Agreements,
which provide that they, along with other member banks of Visa, will share, based on a formula, in
any losses from certain litigation specified in the Agreements, including the Interchange
Litigation.

129  

LE-NATURE S, INC.  Wachovia Bank, N.A. is the administrative agent on a $285 million credit
facility extended to Le-Nature s, Inc. in September 2006, of which approximately $270 million was
syndicated to other lenders by Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC. Le-Nature s was the subject of a
Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition which was converted to a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition in November
2006 in the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. The filing was precipitated by an
apparent fraud relating to Le-Nature s financial condition. On March 14, 2007, the two Wachovia
entities filed an action against several hedge funds in the Superior Court for the State of North
Carolina, Mecklenburg County, alleging that the hedge fund defendants had acquired a significant
quantity of the outstanding debt with full knowledge of Le-Nature s fraud
and with the intention of pursuing alleged fraud and other tort claims against the two
Wachovia entities purportedly related to their role in Le-Nature s credit facility. A preliminary
injunction was entered by the Court that, among other things, prohibited defendants from asserting
any such claims in any other forum. On September 18, 2007, these defendants filed an action in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Wachovia Capital Markets, a third
party and two members of Le-Nature s management asserting claims arising under federal RICO laws.
On March 13, 2008, the North Carolina judge granted Defendants  motion to stay the North Carolina
action and modified the injunction to allow the Defendants to attempt to assert claims in the New
York action. The Wachovia entities have appealed. Wachovia Capital Markets filed a motion to
dismiss the New York action which was granted on August 26, 2008. Plaintiffs have appealed that
ruling. Plaintiffs subsequently filed a case asserting similar allegations in the New York State
Supreme Court for the County of Manhattan. On April 28, 2008, holders of Le-Nature s Senior
Subordinated Notes, an offering which was underwritten by Wachovia Capital Markets in June 2003,
sued alleging various fraud claims; this case is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Western
District of Pennsylvania. On October 30, 2008, the liquidation trust in Le-Nature s bankruptcy
filed suit against a number of individuals and entities, including Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC,
and Wachovia Bank, N.A., in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania,
asserting a variety of claims on behalf of the estate.

MERGER RELATED LITIGATION  On October 4, 2008, Citigroup, Inc. (Citigroup) purported to
commence an action in the Supreme Court of the State of New York for the County of Manhattan,
captioned  Citigroup, Inc. v. Wachovia Corp., et al. , naming as defendants Wachovia Corporation
(Wachovia), Wells Fargo   Company (Wells Fargo), and the directors of both companies. The complaint
alleged that Wachovia Corporation breached an exclusivity agreement with Citigroup, which by its
terms was to expire on October 6, 2008, by entering into negotiations and an eventual acquisition
agreement with Wells Fargo, and that Wells Fargo

and the individual defendants had tortiously
interfered with the same contract. In the complaint, Citigroup seeks $20 billion in compensatory
damages and $40 billion in punitive damages. After significant procedural activity over the week of
October 4-9, 2008, including a voluntary dismissal and re-filing of the action in amended form, the
case was removed on October 9, 2008, to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York. On October 10, 2008, Citigroup filed a motion to remand the case to the New York state court,
and filed a new proposed amended complaint. The proposed amended complaint includes claims for
breach of contract, tortious interference with contract, unjust enrichment, promissory estoppel,
and quantum meruit. In the proposed amended complaint, which the court has not yet approved,
Citigroup seeks $20 billion in compensatory damages, $20 billion in restitutionary and unjust
enrichment damages, and $40 billion in punitive damages. On October 24, 2008, Wachovia Corporation
and Wells Fargo filed a joint response to the motion to remand.

On October 4, 2008, Wachovia Corporation filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York, captioned  Wachovia Corp. v. Citigroup, Inc . The complaint seeks
declaratory relief, stating that the Wells Fargo merger agreement is valid, proper, and not
prohibited by the exclusivity agreement. On October 5, 2008, Wachovia filed a motion for a
preliminary injunction seeking to prevent Citigroup from interfering with or impeding its merger
with Wells Fargo. On October 9, 2008, Citigroup issued a press release stating that Citigroup would
no longer seek to enjoin the merger, but would continue to seek compensatory and punitive damages
against Wachovia Corporation and Wells Fargo. On October 14, 2008, Wells Fargo filed a related
complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, captioned  Wells Fargo
v. Citigroup, Inc . The complaint seeks declaratory and injunctive relief, stating that the Wells
Fargo merger agreement is valid, proper, and not prohibited by the exclusivity agreement. Citigroup
has moved to dismiss the complaint. The cases have been assigned to the same judge for further
proceedings.

MUNICIPAL DERIVATIVES BID PRACTICES INVESTIGATION 

The Department of Justice (DOJ) and the SEC, beginning in November 2006, have been requesting
information from a number of financial institutions, including Wachovia Bank, N.A. s municipal
derivatives group, generally with regard to competitive bid practices in the municipal derivative
markets. In connection with these inquiries, Wachovia Bank has received subpoenas from both the DOJ
and SEC as well as requests from the OCC and several states seeking documents and information. The
DOJ and the SEC have advised Wachovia Bank that they believe certain of its employees engaged in
improper conduct in conjunction with certain competitively bid transactions and, in November 2007,
the DOJ notified two Wachovia Bank employees, both of whom have since been terminated, that they
are regarded

130  

as targets of the DOJ s investigation. Wachovia Bank has been cooperating and
continues to fully cooperate with the government investigations.

Wachovia Bank, along with a number of other banks and financial services companies, has also
been named as a defendant in a number of substantially identical purported class actions, filed in
various state and federal courts by various municipalities alleging they have been damaged by the
activity which is the subject of the governmental investigations. A number of the federal matters
have been consolidated for pre trial proceedings.

PAYMENT PROCESSING CENTER  On February 17, 2006, the U.S. Attorney s Office for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania filed a civil fraud complaint against a former Wachovia Bank, N.A. customer,
Payment Processing
Center (PPC). PPC was a third party payment processor for telemarketing and catalogue companies. On
April 12, 2007, a civil class action,
 Faloney et al. v. Wachovia Bank, N.A. , was filed against Wachovia Bank in the U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania by a putative class of consumers who made purchases
through telemarketer customers of PPC. The suit alleges that between April 1, 2005 and February 21,
2006, Wachovia Bank conspired with PPC to facilitate PPC s purported violation of RICO. On February
15, 2008, a second putative class action,  Harrison v. Wachovia Bank, N.A. , was filed in the U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania by a putative class of consumers who made
purchases through telemarketing customers of three other third party payment processors which
banked with Wachovia Bank. This suit alleges that Wachovia Bank conspired with these payment
processors to facilitate purported violations of RICO. On April 24, 2008, Wachovia and the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) entered into an Agreement to resolve the OCC s
investigation into Wachovia s relationship with PPC and three other companies. The Agreement
provides, among other things, that (i) Wachovia will provide restitution to consumers, (ii) will
create a segregated account in the amount of $125 million to cover the estimated maximum cost of
the restitution, (iii) will fund organizations that provide education for consumers over a two year
period in the amount of $8.9 million, (iv) will make various changes to its policies and procedures
related to customers that use remotely created checks and (v) will appoint a special Compliance
Committee to oversee compliance with the Agreement. Wachovia Bank and the OCC also entered into a
Consent Order for Payment of a Civil Money Penalty whereby Wachovia, without admitting or denying
the allegations contained therein, agreed to payment of a $10 million civil money penalty. The OCC
Agreement was amended on December 8, 2008, to provide for direct restitution payments and those
payments were mailed to consumers on December 11, 2008. Wachovia Bank is cooperating with
government officials to administer the OCC settlement and in their further inquiries.

On August 14, 2008, Wachovia Bank reached agreements to settle the  Faloney  and  Harrison  class
action lawsuits. The settlements received approval from the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania on January 23, 2009.

OTHER REGULATORY MATTERS AND GOVERNMENT 

INVESTIGATIONS  In the course of its banking and financial services businesses, Wells Fargo and
its affiliates are subject to information requests and investigations by governmental and
self-regulatory authorities. These authorities have instituted various ongoing investigations of
various practices in the banking, securities and mutual fund industries, including those relating
to anti-money laundering, sales practices, record retention and other laws and regulations
involving our customers and their accounts.

In general, the investigations cover advisory companies to mutual funds, broker-dealers, hedge
funds and others and may involve the activities of customers or third parties with respect to
accounts maintained by Wells Fargo affiliates or transactions in which Wells Fargo affiliates may
be involved. Wells Fargo affiliates have received subpoenas and other requests for documents and
testimony relating to the investigations, is endeavoring to comply with those requests, is
cooperating with the investigations, and where appropriate, is engaging in discussions to resolve
the investigations or take other remedial actions. These investigations include an investigation
being conducted by the U.S. Attorney s Office for the Southern District of Florida into, among
other matters, Wachovia Bank, N.A. s correspondent banking relationship with certain non-domestic
exchange houses and Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering compliance.

Wachovia Bank is cooperating fully with the U.S. Attorney s Office s investigation.

OUTLOOK  Based on information currently available, advice of counsel, available insurance
coverage and established reserves, Wells Fargo believes that the eventual outcome of the actions
against Wells Fargo and/or its subsidiaries, including the matters described above, will not,
individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Wells Fargo s consolidated
financial position or results of operations. However, in the event of unexpected future
developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of those matters, if unfavorable, may be
material to Wells Fargo s results of operations for any particular period.

131  

Note 16:      Derivatives

We use derivatives to manage exposure to market risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and
foreign currency risk, to generate profits from proprietary trading and to assist customers with
their risk management objectives. Derivative
transactions are measured in terms of the notional amount, but this amount is not recorded on
the balance sheet and is not, when viewed in isolation, a meaningful measure of the risk profile of
the instruments. The notional amount is generally not exchanged, but is used only as the basis on
which interest and other payments are determined. Our approach to managing interest rate risk
includes the use of derivatives. This helps minimize significant, unplanned fluctuations in
earnings, fair values of assets and liabilities, and cash flows caused by interest rate volatility.
This approach involves modifying the repricing characteristics of certain assets and liabilities so
that changes in interest rates do not have a significant adverse effect on the net interest margin
and cash flows. As a result of interest rate fluctuations, hedged assets and liabilities will gain
or lose market value. In a fair value hedging strategy, the effect of this unrealized gain or loss
will generally be offset by the gain or loss on the derivatives linked to the hedged assets and
liabilities. In a cash flow hedging strategy, we manage the variability of cash payments due to
interest rate fluctuations by the effective use of derivatives linked to hedged assets and
liabilities.

We use derivatives as part of our interest rate and foreign currency risk management,
including interest rate swaps, caps and floors, futures and forward contracts, and options. We also
offer various derivatives, including interest rate, commodity, equity, credit and foreign exchange
contracts, to our customers but usually offset our exposure from such contracts by purchasing other
financial contracts. The customer accommodations and any offsetting financial contracts are treated
as free-standing derivatives. Free-standing derivatives also include derivatives we enter into for
risk management that do not otherwise qualify for hedge accounting, including economic hedge
derivatives. To a lesser extent, we take positions based on market expectations or to benefit from
price differentials between financial instruments and markets. Additionally, free-standing
derivatives include embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for from
their host contracts.

Our derivative activities are monitored by Corporate ALCO. Our Treasury function, which
includes asset/liability management, is responsible for various hedging strategies developed
through analysis of data from financial models and other internal and industry sources. We
incorporate the resulting hedging strategies into our overall interest rate risk management and
trading strategies.

Fair Value Hedges  

We use interest rate swaps to convert certain of our fixed-rate long-term debt and
certificates of deposit to floating rates to hedge our exposure to interest rate risk. We also
enter into cross-currency swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward contracts to hedge
our exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate risk associated with the issuance of
non-U.S. dollar denominated long-term debt and repurchase agreements. Prior to January 1, 2007, the
ineffective portion of these fair value hedges was recorded as part of interest expense in the
income statement. Subsequent to January 1, 2007, the ineffective portion of these fair value hedges
is recorded as part of noninterest income. We made this change after converting these hedge
relationships to the long-haul method of assessing hedge effectiveness, which results in
recognition of more ineffectiveness compared to the shortcut method. Consistent with our
asset/liability management strategy of converting fixed-rate debt to floating-rates, we believe
interest expense should reflect only the current contractual interest cash flows on the liabilities
and the related swaps. In addition, we use derivatives, such as Treasury futures and LIBOR swaps,
to hedge changes in fair value due to changes in interest rates of our commercial real estate
mortgage loans held for sale. The ineffective portion of these fair value hedges is recorded as
part of mortgage banking noninterest income. Finally, we use interest rate swaps to hedge against
changes in fair value of certain debt securities that are classified as securities available for
sale, due to changes in interest rates, foreign currency rates, or both. The ineffective portion of
these fair value hedges is recorded in  Net gains (losses) on debt securities available for sale 
in the income statement. For fair value hedges of long-term debt, certificates of deposit,
repurchase agreements, commercial real estate loans, and debt securities, all parts of each
derivative s gain or loss due to the hedged risk are included in the assessment of hedge
effectiveness.

For certain fair value hedging relationships, we use statistical analysis to assess hedge
effectiveness, both at inception of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis. Such analysis
may include regression analysis or analysis of the price sensitivity of the hedging instrument
relative to that of the hedged item. The regression analysis involves regressing the periodic
change in fair value of the hedging instrument against the periodic changes in fair value of the
asset or liability being hedged due to changes in the hedged risk(s). The assessment includes an
evaluation of the quantitative measures of the regression results used to validate the conclusion
of high effectiveness. Additionally, for other fair value hedging relationships, we use the
cumulative dollar-offset approach to validate the effectiveness of the hedge on a retrospective
basis.

132  

Prior to June 1, 2006, we used the short-cut method of assessing hedge effectiveness for
certain fair value hedging relationships of U.S. dollar denominated fixed-rate long-term debt and
certificates of deposits. The short-cut
method allows an entity to assume perfect hedge effectiveness if certain qualitative criteria
are met, and accordingly, does not require quantitative measures such as regression analysis. We
used the short-cut method only when appropriate, based on the qualitative assessment of the
criteria in paragraph 68 of FAS 133, performed at inception of the hedging relationship and on an
ongoing basis. Effective January 1, 2006, for any new hedging relationships of these types, we used
the long-haul method to assess hedge effectiveness. By June 1, 2006, we stopped using the short-cut
method by de-designating all remaining short-cut relationships and re-designating them to use the
long-haul method to evaluate hedge effectiveness.

From time to time, we enter into equity collars to lock in share prices between specified
levels for certain equity securities. As permitted, we include the intrinsic value only (excluding
time value) when assessing hedge effectiveness. We assess hedge effectiveness based on a
dollar-offset ratio, at inception of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis, by comparing
cumulative changes in the intrinsic value of the equity collar with changes in the fair value of
the hedged equity securities. The net derivative gain or loss related to the equity collars is
recorded in other noninterest income in the income statement.

Cash Flow Hedges  

We hedge floating-rate debt against future interest rate increases by using interest rate
swaps to convert floating-rate debt to fixed rates and by using interest rate caps, floors and
futures to limit variability of rates. We also use interest rate swaps and floors to hedge the
variability in interest payments received on certain floating-rate commercial loans, due to changes
in the benchmark interest rate. Upon adoption of FAS 159 on January 1, 2007, derivatives used to
hedge the forecasted sales of prime residential MHFS originated subsequent to January 1, 2007, were
accounted for as economic hedges. We previously accounted for these derivatives as cash flow hedges
under FAS 133. Gains and losses on derivatives that are reclassified from cumulative other
comprehensive income to current period earnings, are included in the line item in which the hedged
item s effect in

earnings is recorded. All parts of gain or loss on these derivatives are included
in the assessment of hedge effectiveness. For all cash flow hedges, we assess hedge effectiveness
using regression analysis, both at inception of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis.
The regression analysis involves regressing the periodic changes in cash flows of the hedging
instrument against the periodic changes in cash flows of the forecasted transaction being hedged
due to changes in the hedged risk(s). The assessment includes an evaluation of the quantitative
measures of the regression results used to validate the conclusion of high effectiveness.

We expect that $60 million of deferred net loss on derivatives in other comprehensive income
at December 31, 2008, will be reclassified as earnings during the next twelve months, compared with
$63 million and $53 million of net deferred gains at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We
are hedging our exposure to the variability of future cash flows for all forecasted transactions
for a maximum of seventeen years for both hedges of floating-rate debt and floating-rate commercial
loans.

The following table provides derivative gains and losses related to fair value and cash flow
hedges resulting from the change in value of the derivatives excluded from the assessment of hedge
effectiveness and the change in value of the ineffective portion of the derivatives.

(1) 
       
     Includes hedges of long-term debt and certificates of deposit, commercial real estate and
franchise loans, and debt and equity securities. 

(2) 
       
     Includes hedges of floating-rate long-term debt and floating-rate commercial loans and, for
2006, hedges of forecasted sales of prime residential MHFS. Upon adoption of FAS 159,
derivatives used to hedge our prime residential MHFS were no longer accounted for as cash flow
hedges under FAS 133. 

133  

Free-Standing Derivatives  

We use free-standing derivatives (economic hedges), in addition to debt securities available
for sale, to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of residential MSRs, new prime residential
MHFS, derivative loan commitments and other interests held, with the resulting gain or loss
reflected in income.

The derivatives used to hedge residential MSRs include swaps, swaptions, forwards, Eurodollar
and Treasury futures and options contracts. Net derivative gains of $3,099 million for 2008 and net
derivative gains of $1,154 million for 2007 from economic hedges related to our mortgage servicing
activities are included in mortgage banking noninterest income. The aggregate fair value of these
derivatives used as economic hedges was a net asset of $3,610 million at December 31, 2008, and
$1,652 million at December 31, 2007. Changes in fair value of debt securities available for sale
(unrealized gains and losses) are not included in servicing income, but are reported in cumulative
other comprehensive income (net of tax) or, upon sale, are reported in net gains (losses) on debt
securities available for sale.

Interest rate lock commitments for residential mortgage loans that we intend to sell are
considered free-standing derivatives. Our interest rate exposure on these derivative loan
commitments, as well as most new prime residential MHFS carried at fair value under FAS 159, is
hedged with free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) such as forwards and options, Eurodollar
futures and options, and Treasury futures, forwards and options contracts. The commitments,
free-standing derivatives and residential MHFS are carried at fair value with changes in fair value
included in mortgage banking noninterest income. For interest rate lock commitments issued prior to
January 1, 2008, we recorded a zero fair value for the derivative loan commitment at inception
consistent with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 105,  Application of Accounting Principles to Loan
Commitments . Effective January 1, 2008, we were required by SAB 109 to include, at inception and
during the life of the loan commitment, the expected net future cash flows related to the
associated servicing of the loan as part of the fair value measurement of derivative loan
commitments. The implementation of SAB 109 did not have a material impact on our results or the
valuation of our loan commitments. Changes subsequent to inception are based on changes in fair
value of the underlying loan resulting from the exercise of the commitment and changes in the
probability that the loan will not fund within the terms of the commitment (referred to as a
fall-out factor). The value of the underlying loan is affected primarily by changes in interest
rates and the passage of time. However, changes in investor demand, such as concerns about credit
risk, can also cause changes in the spread relationships between underlying loan value and the
derivative financial instruments that cannot be hedged. The aggregate fair

value of derivative
loan commitments in the balance sheet at December 31, 2008 and 2007, was a net asset of $125
million and $6 million, respectively, and is included in the caption  Interest rate contracts 
under Customer Accommodation, Trading and Other Free-Standing Derivatives in the table on page 136.

We also enter into various derivatives primarily to provide derivative products to customers.
To a lesser extent, we take positions based on market expectations or to benefit from price
differentials between financial instruments and markets. These derivatives are not linked to
specific assets and liabilities in the balance sheet or to forecasted transactions in an accounting
hedge relationship and, therefore, do not qualify for hedge accounting. We also enter into
free-standing derivatives for risk management that do not otherwise qualify for hedge accounting.
They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded as part of other noninterest
income.

Additionally, free-standing derivatives include embedded derivatives that are required to be
accounted for separate from their host contract. We periodically issue long-term notes and
certificates of deposit where the performance of the hybrid instrument notes is linked to an
equity, commodity or currency index, or basket of such indices. These notes contain explicit terms
that affect some or all of the cash flows or the value of the note in a manner similar to a
derivative instrument and therefore are considered to contain an  embedded  derivative instrument.
The indices on which the performance of the hybrid instrument is calculated are not clearly and
closely related to the host debt instrument. In accordance with FAS 133, the  embedded  derivative
is separated from the host contract and accounted for as a free-standing derivative.

Credit Derivatives  

We use credit derivatives to manage exposure to credit risk related to proprietary trading and
to assist customers with their risk management objectives. This may include protection sold to
offset purchased protection in structured product transactions, as well as liquidity agreements
written to special purpose vehicles. The maximum exposure of sold credit derivatives is managed
through posted collateral, purchased credit derivatives and similar
products in order to achieve our desired credit risk profile. This credit risk management
provides an ability to recover a significant portion of any amounts that would be paid under the
sold credit derivatives. We would be required to perform under the noted credit derivatives in the
event of default by the referenced obligors. Events of default include events such as bankruptcy,
capital restructuring or lack of principal and/or interest payment. In certain cases, other
triggers may exist, such as the credit downgrade of the referenced obligors or the inability of the
special purpose vehicle for which we have provided liquidity to obtain funding.

134  

The following table provides details of credit derivatives at December 31, 2008.

The higher payment risk category is based on the portion of the maximum loss exposure for
which there is a greater risk that we will be required to make a payment or perform under the
credit derivative. The current status of the risk of payment or performance being required is
considered high if the underlying assets under the credit derivative have an external rating that
is below investment grade or an internal credit default grade that would be equivalent to a below
investment grade external rating. It is important to note that the higher payment risk represents
the amount of exposure for which payment is of a high likelihood. Such payment may not result in a
loss. As such, the higher payment risk column is not an indication of loss probability.

Counterparty Credit Risk  

By using derivatives, we are exposed to credit risk if counterparties to the derivative
contracts do not perform as expected. If a counterparty fails to perform, our counterparty credit
risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset in our balance sheet. The amounts
reported as a derivative asset are derivative contracts in a gain position, and to the extent
subject to master netting arrangements, net of derivatives in a loss position with the same
counterparty and cash collateral received. We minimize counterparty

credit risk through credit
approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, executing master netting arrangements and obtaining
collateral, where appropriate. To the extent the master netting arrangements and other criteria
meet the requirements of FASB Interpretation No. 39,  Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain
Contracts , as amended by FSP FIN 39-1, derivatives balances and related cash collateral amounts are
shown net in the balance sheet. Counterparty credit risk related to derivatives is considered and,
if material, provided for separately.

In connection with the bankruptcy filing by Lehman Brothers in September 2008, we recognized a
$106 million charge in noninterest income related to unsecured counterparty exposure on our
derivative contracts with Lehman Brothers. The bankruptcy filing triggered an early termination of
the derivative contracts that after consideration of the master netting arrangement and posted cash
collateral, resulted in a net amount due to us of $106 million. We assessed the collectability of
this receivable and determined it was not realizable. We took appropriate actions to replace, as
necessary, the terminated derivative contracts in order to maintain our various risk management
strategies that previously involved the Lehman Brothers derivative contracts.

135  

The total notional or contractual amounts and fair values for derivatives were:

(1) 
       
     Includes free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the risk of changes in the
fair value of residential MSRs, MHFS, interest rate lock commitments and other interests held. 

(2) 
       
     Represents netting of derivative asset and liability balances, and related cash collateral,
with the same counterparty subject to master netting arrangements under FIN 39.
The amount of cash collateral netted against derivative assets and liabilities was $17.7 billion
and $22.2 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2008. 

136  

Note 17:     Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities

We use fair value measurements to record fair value
adjustments to certain assets and liabilities and to determine
fair value disclosures. Trading assets, securities available
for sale, derivatives, prime residential mortgages held for
sale (MHFS), certain commercial loans held for sale (LHFS),
residential MSRs, principal investments and securities sold
but not yet purchased (short sale liabilities) are recorded at
fair value on a recurring basis. Additionally, from time to
time, we may be required to record at fair value other assets
on a nonrecurring basis, such as nonprime residential and
commercial MHFS, certain LHFS, loans held for investment and
certain other assets. These nonrecurring fair value
adjustments typically involve application of
lower-of-cost-or-market accounting or write-downs of
individual assets.

Under FAS 159, we elected to measure MHFS at fair value
prospectively for new prime residential MHFS originations, for
which an active secondary market and readily available market
prices existed to reliably support fair value pricing models
used for these loans. On December 31, 2008, we elected to
measure at fair value prime residential MHFS acquired from
Wachovia. We also elected to remeasure at fair value certain of
our other interests held related to residential loan sales and
securitizations. We believe the election for MHFS and other
interests held (which are now hedged with free-standing
derivatives (economic hedges) along with our MSRs) reduces
certain timing differences and better matches changes in the
value of these assets with changes in the value of derivatives
used as economic hedges for these assets. There was no
transition adjustment required upon adoption of FAS 159 for
MHFS because we continued to account for MHFS originated prior
to 2007 at the lower of cost or market value. At December 31,
2006, the book value of other interests held was equal to fair
value and, therefore, a transition adjustment was not required.

Upon the acquisition of Wachovia, we elected to measure
at fair value certain portfolios of LHFS that we intend to
hold for trading purposes and that may be economically hedged
with derivative instruments. In addition, we elected to
measure at fair value certain letters of credit that are
hedged with derivative instruments to better reflect the
economics of the transactions. These letters of credit are
included in trading account assets or liabilities.

Under FAS 159, we were also required to adopt FAS 157,
 Fair Value Measurements  (FAS 157). FAS 157 defines fair value,
establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value
and expands disclosure requirements for fair value
measurements. Additionally, FAS 157 amended FAS 107,
 Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
(FAS 107), and, as such, we follow FAS 157 in determination
of FAS 107 fair value disclosure amounts. The disclosures
required under FAS 159, FAS 157 and FAS 107 are included in
this Note.

Fair Value Hierarchy  

Under FAS 157, we group our assets and liabilities at fair
value in three levels, based on the markets in which the
assets and liabilities are traded and the reliability of the
assumptions used to determine fair value. These levels are:

Level 1   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for
identical instruments traded in active markets. 

Level 2   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for
similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for
identical or similar instruments in markets that are not
active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all
significant assumptions are observable in the market. 

Level 3   Valuation is generated from model-based
techniques that use significant assumptions not observable
in the market. These unobservable assumptions reflect
estimates of assumptions that market participants would
use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation
techniques include use of option pricing models,
discounted cash flow models and similar techniques. 

Determination of Fair Value  

Under FAS 157, we base our fair values on the price that would
be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability
in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date. It is our policy to maximize the use of
observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs
when developing fair value measurements, in accordance with
the fair value hierarchy in FAS 157.

Fair value measurements for assets and liabilities where
there exists limited or no observable market data and,
therefore, are based primarily upon our own estimates, are
often calculated based on current pricing policy, the
economic and competitive environment, the characteristics of
the asset or liability and other such factors. Therefore, the
results cannot be determined with precision and may not be
realized in an actual sale or immediate settlement of the
asset or liability. Additionally, there may be inherent
weaknesses in any calculation technique, and changes in the
underlying assumptions used, including discount rates and
estimates of future cash flows, that could significantly
affect the results of current or future values.

We incorporate lack of liquidity into our fair value
measurement based on the type of asset measured and the
valuation methodology used. For example, for residential
mortgage loans held for sale and certain securities where the
significant inputs have become unobservable due to the illiquid
markets, we use a discounted cash flow technique to measure
fair value. This technique incorporates forecasting of expected
cash flows discounted at an appropriate market discount rate to
reflect the lack of liquidity in the market that a market
participant would consider. For other securities, we use
unadjusted broker quotes or vendor prices to measure

137  

fair value, which inherently reflect any lack of liquidity in
the market as the fair value measurement represents an exit
price from a market participant viewpoint.

Following is a description of valuation methodologies
used for assets and liabilities recorded at fair value and
for estimating fair value for financial instruments not
recorded at fair value (FAS 107 disclosures).

Assets  

SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL ASSETS  Short-term financial assets include
cash and due from banks, federal funds sold and securities
purchased under resale agreements and due from customers on
acceptances. These assets are carried at historical cost. The
carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value because
of the relatively short time between the origination of the
instrument and its expected realization.

TRADING ASSETS AND SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE  Trading assets
and securities available for sale are recorded at fair value on
a recurring basis. Fair value measurement is based upon quoted
prices, if available. Such instruments are classified within
Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Examples include
exchange-traded equity securities and some highly liquid
government securities such as U.S. Treasuries.

When instruments are traded in secondary markets and
quoted market prices do not exist for such securities, we
generally rely on internal valuation techniques or on prices
obtained from independent pricing services or brokers
(collectively, vendors). Trading assets and liabilities are
typically valued using trader prices that are subject to
independent price verification procedures. The majority of fair
values derived using internal valuation techniques are verified
against multiple pricing sources, including prices obtained
from independent vendors. Vendors compile prices from various
sources and often apply matrix pricing for similar securities
when no price is observable. We review pricing methodologies
provided by the vendors in order to determine if observable
market information is being used, versus unobservable inputs.
When evaluating the appropriateness of an internal trader price
compared to vendor prices, considerations include the range and
quality of vendor prices. Vendor prices are used to ensure the
reasonableness of a trader price; however valuing financial
instruments involves judgments acquired from knowledge of a
particular market and is not perfunctory. If a trader asserts
that a vendor price is not reflective of market value,
justification for using the trader price, including recent
sales activity where possible, must be provided to and approved
by the appropriate levels of management. Similarly, while
securities available for sale traded in secondary markets are
typically valued using a vendor price, these prices are
reviewed and, if deemed inappropriate by a trader who has the
most knowledge of a particular market, can be adjusted.
Securities measured with these internal valuation techniques
are generally classified as Level 2 of the hierarchy and often
involve using quoted market prices for similar securities,
pricing models or discounted cash flow analyses using inputs
observable in the market where available.

Examples include private CMOs, municipal bonds, U.S.
government and agency mortgage-backed securities, and
corporate debt securities.

Where significant inputs are unobservable in the market
due to limited activity or a less liquid market, securities
valued using models with such inputs are classified as Level 3
of the fair value hierarchy. Securities classified as Level 3
include private placement asset-backed securities,
collateralized by auto leases and cash reserves, private CMOs,
collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) and collateralized loan
obligations (CLOs), and certain residual and retained interests
in residential mortgage loan securitizations. CDOs are valued
using the prices of similar instruments, the pricing of
completed or pending third party transactions or the pricing of
the underlying collateral within the CDO. Where prices are not
readily available, management s best estimate is used.

MORTGAGES HELD FOR SALE (MHFS)  Under FAS 159, we elected to
carry our new prime residential MHFS portfolio at fair value.
The remaining MHFS are carried at the lower of cost or market
value. Fair value is based on independent quoted market prices,
where available, or the prices for other mortgage whole loans
with similar characteristics. As necessary, these prices are
adjusted for typical securitization activities, including
servicing value, portfolio composition, market conditions and
liquidity. Most of our MHFS are classified as Level 2. For the
portion where market pricing data is not available, we use a
discounted cash flow model to estimate fair value and,
accordingly, classify as Level 3.

LOANS HELD FOR SALE (LHFS)  Loans held for sale are carried at
the lower of cost or market value, or at fair value for
certain portfolios that we intend to hold for trading
purposes. The fair value of LHFS is based on what secondary
markets are currently offering for portfolios with similar
characteristics. As such, we classify those loans subjected to
nonrecurring fair value adjustments as Level 2.

LOANS  For the carrying value of loans, including loans
accounted for under SOP 03-3, see Note 1   Loans. We do not
record loans at fair value on a recurring basis. As such,
valuation techniques discussed herein for loans are primarily
for estimating fair value for FAS 107 disclosure purposes.
However, from time to time, we record nonrecurring fair value
adjustments to loans to reflect (1) partial write-downs that
are based on the observable market price or current appraised
value of the collateral, or (2) the full charge-off of the
loan carrying value.

The fair value estimates for FAS 107 purposes
differentiate loans based on their financial characteristics,
such as product classification, loan category, pricing features
and remaining maturity. Prepayment and credit loss estimates
are evaluated by product and loan rate.

The fair value of commercial and commercial real estate
loans is calculated by discounting contractual cash flows,
adjusted for credit loss estimates, using discount rates that
reflect our current pricing for loans with similar
characteristics and remaining maturity.

138  

For real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien
mortgages, fair value is calculated by discounting contractual
cash flows, adjusted for prepayment and credit loss estimates,
using discount rates based on current industry pricing (where
readily available) or our own estimate of an appropriate
risk-adjusted discount rate for loans of similar size, type,
remaining maturity and repricing characteristics.

For credit card loans, the portfolio s yield is equal to
our current pricing and, therefore, the fair value is equal to
book value adjusted for estimates of credit losses inherent in
the portfolio at the balance sheet date.

For all other consumer loans, the fair value is generally
calculated by discounting the contractual cash flows, adjusted
for prepayment and credit loss estimates, based on the current
rates we offer for loans with similar characteristics.

Loan commitments, standby letters of credit and commercial
and similar letters of credit are not included in the FAS 107
table on page 143. These instruments generate ongoing fees at
our current pricing levels, which are recognized over the term
of the commitment period. In situations where the credit
quality of the counterparty to a commitment has declined, we
record a reserve. A reasonable estimate of the fair value of
these instruments is the carrying value of deferred fees plus
the related reserve. This amounted to $719 million and $33
million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Certain
letters of credit that are hedged with derivative instruments
are carried at fair value in trading assets or liabilities. For
those letters of credit fair value is calculated based on
readily quotable credit default spreads, using a market risk
credit default swap model.

DERIVATIVES  Quoted market prices are available and used for our
exchange-traded derivatives, such as certain interest rate
futures and option contracts, which we classify as Level 1.
However, substantially all of our derivatives are traded in
over-the-counter (OTC) markets where quoted market prices are
not readily available. OTC derivatives are valued using
internal valuation techniques. Valuation techniques and inputs
to internally-developed models depend on the type of derivative
and nature of the underlying rate, price or index upon which
the derivative s value is based. Key inputs can include yield
curves, credit curves, foreign-exchange rates, prepayment
rates, volatility measurements and correlation of such inputs.
Where model inputs can be observed in a liquid market and the
model does not require significant judgment, such derivatives
are typically classified as Level 2 of the fair value
hierarchy. Examples of derivatives classified as Level 2
include generic interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps,
commodity swaps, and option contracts. When instruments are
traded in less liquid markets and significant inputs are
unobservable, such derivatives are classified within Level 3.
Examples of derivatives classified as Level 3 include complex and highly
structured derivatives, credit default swaps, interest rate
lock commitments written for our residential mortgage loans
that we intend to sell and long dated equity options where
volatility is not observable. Additionally, significant
judgments are required when classifying financial instruments
within the fair value hierarchy, particularly between Level 2 and 3, as is the case for certain derivatives.

MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS AND CERTAIN OTHER INTERESTS HELD IN
SECURITIZATIONS  Mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) and certain
other interests held in securitizations (e.g., interest-only
strips) do not trade in an active market with readily
observable prices. Accordingly, we determine the fair value of
MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the present value
of estimated future net servicing income. The model
incorporates assumptions that market participants use in
estimating future net servicing income, including estimates of
prepayment speeds (including housing price volatility),
discount rate, cost to service (including delinquency and
foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings, contractual
servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees.
Commercial MSRs are carried at lower of cost or market value,
and therefore can be subject to fair value measurements on a
nonrecurring basis. For other interests held in securitizations
(such as interest-only strips) we use a valuation model that
calculates the present value of estimated future cash flows.
The model incorporates our own estimates of assumptions market
participants use in determining the fair value, including
estimates of prepayment speeds, discount rates, defaults and
contractual fee income. Interest-only strips are recorded as
trading assets. Fair value measurements of our MSRs and
interest-only strips use significant unobservable inputs and,
accordingly, we classify as Level 3. We may also retain
securities from our loan securitization activities. The
valuation technique for these securities is discussed in
 Securities available for sale .

FORECLOSED ASSETS  Foreclosed assets include foreclosed
properties securing residential, auto and GNMA loans.
Foreclosed assets are adjusted to fair value less costs to sell
upon transfer of the loans to foreclosed assets. Subsequently,
foreclosed assets are carried at the lower of carrying value or
fair value less costs to sell. Fair value is generally based
upon independent market prices or appraised values of the
collateral and, accordingly, we classify foreclosed assets as
Level 2.

NONMARKETABLE EQUITY INVESTMENTS  Nonmarketable equity
investments are recorded under the cost or equity method of
accounting. Nonmarketable equity securities that fall within
the scope of the AICPA Investment Company Audit Guide are
carried at fair value (principal investments). There are
generally restrictions on the sale and/or liquidation of these
investments, including federal bank stock. Federal bank stock
carrying value approximates fair value. We use facts and
circumstances available to estimate the fair value of our
nonmarketable equity investments. We typically consider our
access to and need for capital (including recent or projected
financing activity), qualitative assessments of the viability
of the investee, evaluation of the financial statements of the
investee and prospects for its future. Principal investments,
including certain public equity and non-public securities and
certain investments in private equity funds, are recorded at
fair value with realized and unrealized gains and losses
included in gains and losses on equity investments in the
income statement, and are included in other assets on the
balance sheet. Public equity investments are valued

139  

using quoted market prices and discounts are only applied when
there are trading restrictions that are an attribute of the
investment. Investments in non-public securities are recorded
at our estimate of fair value using metrics such as security
prices of comparable public companies, acquisition prices for
similar companies and original investment purchase price
multiples, while also incorporating a portfolio company s
financial performance and specific factors. For investments in
private equity funds, we use the net asset value (NAV) provided
by the fund sponsor as an appropriate measure of fair value. In
some cases, such NAVs require adjustments based on certain
unobservable inputs.

Liabilities  

DEPOSIT LIABILITIES  Deposit liabilities are carried at
historical cost. FAS 107 states that the fair value of
deposits with no stated maturity, such as noninterest-bearing
demand deposits, interest-bearing checking, and market rate
and other savings, is equal to the amount payable on demand at
the measurement date. The fair value of other time deposits is
calculated based on the discounted value of contractual cash
flows. The discount rate is estimated using the rates
currently offered for like wholesale deposits with similar
remaining maturities.

SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL LIABILITIES  Short-term financial
liabilities are carried at historical cost and include federal
funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase
agreements, commercial paper and other short-term borrowings.
The carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value
because of the relatively short time between the origination
of the instrument and its expected realization.

OTHER LIABILITIES  Other liabilities recorded at fair value on a
recurring basis, excluding derivative liabilities (see
 Derivatives  section for derivative liabilities), includes short
sale liabilities and repurchase obligations (due to standard
representations and warranties) under our residential mortgage
loan contracts. Short sale liabilities are classified as either
Level 1 or Level 2, generally dependent upon whether the
underlying securities have readily obtained quoted prices in
active exchange markets. The value of the repurchase
obligations is determined using a cash flow valuation technique
consistent with what market participants would use in
estimating the fair value. Key assumptions in the valuation
process are estimates for repurchase demands and losses
subsequent to repurchase. Such assumptions are unobservable
and, accordingly, we classify repurchase obligations as Level
3.

LONG-TERM DEBT  Long-term debt is carried at amortized cost.
However, we are required to estimate the fair value of
long-term debt under FAS 107. Generally, the discounted cash
flow method is used to estimate the fair value of our long-term
debt. Contractual cash flows are discounted using rates
currently offered for new notes with similar remaining
maturities and, as such, these discount rates include our
current spread levels. The fair value estimates generated are
corroborated against observable market prices. For
foreign-currency denominated debt, we estimate fair value based
upon observable market prices for the instruments.

Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis  

The table below presents the balances of assets and liabilities
measured at fair value on a recurring basis.

(1) 
       
     Derivatives are reported net of cash collateral received and paid and, to the extent that the
criteria of FIN 39 are met, positions with the same counterparty are netted as part of a legally
enforceable master netting agreement. 

(2) 
       
     Derivative assets other than trading and principal investments are
included in this category. 

(3) 
       
     Derivative liabilities other than
trading are included in this category. 

(4) 
       
     Includes investments in certain asset-backed securities, including those collateralized by auto
leases and cash reserves, private CMOs, CDOs, CLOs and auction-rate preferred securities. 

140  

We continue to invest in asset-backed securities
collateralized by auto leases and cash reserves that provide
attractive yields and are structured equivalent to
investment-grade securities. Based on our experience with
underwriting auto leases and the significant
overcollateralization of our interests, which results in
retention by the counterparty of a significant amount of the
primary risks of the investments (credit risk and residual
value risk of the autos), we consider

these assets to be of high credit quality. The securities are
relatively short duration, therefore not as sensitive to
market interest rate movements.

For certain assets and liabilities, we obtain fair
value measurements from independent brokers or independent
third party pricing services. The detail by level is shown
in the table below.

The changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are
summarized as follows:

(1) 
       
     The amounts presented as transfers into and out of Level 3 represent the fair value as of the
beginning of the period presented. 

(2) 
       
     Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and
management s estimates of fair value and excludes changes due to the collection/realization of cash
flows over time. 

(3) 
       
     Included in other noninterest income in the income statement. 

(4) 
       
     Represents transfers from Level 2 of residential MHFS and debt securities (including CDOs) for
which significant inputs to the valuation became unobservable, largely due to reduced levels of
market liquidity. Related gains and losses for the period are included in the above table. 

(5) 
       
     Included in mortgage banking in the income statement. 

(6) 
       
     Represents total unrealized losses of $571 million, net of gains of
$23 million related to sales. 

(7) 
       
     Represents total unrealized losses of
$3,341 million, net of losses of $8 million related to sales. 

141  

Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis  

We may be required, from time to time, to measure certain
assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in accordance with
GAAP. These adjustments to fair value usually result from
application of lower-of-cost-or-market accounting or
write-downs of individual assets. The valuation methodologies

used to measure these fair value adjustments are described
previously in this Note. For assets measured at fair value on
a nonrecurring basis in 2008 and 2007 that were still held in
the balance sheet at the respective year ends, the following
table provides the level of valuation assumptions used to
determine each adjustment and the carrying value of the
related individual assets or portfolios at year end.

(1) 
       
     Represents carrying value and related write-downs of loans for which adjustments are based on
the appraised value of the collateral. The carrying value of loans fully charged-off, which
includes unsecured lines and loans, is zero. 

(2) 
       
     Represents the fair value and related losses of foreclosed real estate and other collateral
owned that were measured at fair value subsequent to their initial classification as foreclosed
assets. 

Fair Value Option  

The following table reflects the differences between the fair
value carrying amount of MHFS and LHFS measured at fair

value under FAS 159 and the aggregate unpaid principal amount
we are contractually entitled to receive at maturity.

(1) 
       
     The difference between fair value carrying amount and aggregate unpaid principal includes
changes in fair value recorded at and subsequent to funding, gains and losses on the related loan
commitment prior to funding, and premiums on acquired loans. 

142  

The assets accounted for under FAS 159 are initially
measured at fair value. Gains and losses from initial
measurement and subsequent changes in fair value are
recognized in earnings. The changes in fair values related

to initial measurement and subsequent changes in fair value
included in earnings for these assets measured at fair value
are shown, by income statement line item, below.

(in millions) 
       
     Year ended December 31, 

2008  

2007 

Mortgages  

Other  

Mortgages 

Other 

held for  

interests  

held for 

interests 

sale  

held  

sale 

held 

Changes in fair value included in net income:

Mortgage banking noninterest income:

Net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities  (1) 

$  
      2,111  

$  

$ 
     986 

$ 

Other noninterest income

(109  
      )  

(153 
     ) 

(1) 
       
     Includes changes in fair value of servicing associated with MHFS. 

Interest income on MHFS measured at fair value is
calculated based on the note rate of the loan and is recorded
in interest income in the income statement.

For MHFS measured at fair value under FAS 159, the
estimated amount of losses included in earnings attributable to
instrument-specific credit risk for the year ended December 31,
2008 and 2007, was $648 million and $515 million, respectively.
For performing loans, instrument-specific credit risk gains or
losses were derived principally by determining the change in
fair value of the loans due to changes in the observable or
implied credit spread. Credit spread is the market yield on the
loans less the relevant risk-free benchmark interest rate.
Since the second half of 2007, spreads have been significantly
impacted by the lack of liquidity in the secondary market for
mortgage loans. For nonperforming loans, we attribute all
changes in fair value to instrument-specific credit risk.

FAS 107,    Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments   

The table below is a summary of fair value estimates as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, for financial instruments, as
defined by FAS 107, excluding short-term financial assets and
liabilities, for which carrying amounts approximate fair
value, and excluding financial instruments recorded at fair
value on a recurring basis. The carrying amounts in the
following table are recorded in the balance sheet under the
indicated captions.

In accordance with FAS 107, we have not included assets
and liabilities that are not financial instruments in our
disclosure, such as the value of the long-term relationships
with our deposit, credit card and trust customers, amortized
MSRs, premises and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles,
deferred taxes and other liabilities. Additionally, the amounts
in the table have not been updated since year end, therefore
the valuations may have changed significantly since that point
in time. For these reasons, the total of the fair value
calculations presented does not represent, and should not be
construed to represent, the underlying value of the Company.

(1) 
       
     Balance excludes mortgages held for sale for which the fair value option under FAS 159 was
elected, and therefore includes nonprime residential and commercial
mortgages held for sale. 

(2) 
       
     The carrying amount and fair value exclude obligations under capital leases of $103 million and
$20 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

143  

Note 18:     Preferred Stock

We are authorized to issue 20 million shares of preferred stock
and 4 million shares of preference stock, both without par
value. Preferred shares outstanding rank senior to common
shares both as to dividends and liquidation preference but

have no general voting rights. We have not issued any
preference shares under this authorization.

The following table provides detail of preferred stock
at  
December 31, 2008.

(1) 
       
     Series D, J, K and L preferred shares qualify as Tier 1 capital. 

(2) 
       
     In conjunction with the acquisition of Wachovia, at December 31, 2008, shares of Series J, K
and L perpetual preferred stock were converted into shares of a corresponding series of Wells Fargo
preferred stock having substantially the same rights and preferences. The carrying amount is par
value adjusted to fair value in purchase accounting. 

In addition to the preferred stock issued and outstanding
described in the table above, we have the following preferred
stock authorized with no shares issued and outstanding:

PREFERRED STOCK ISSUED TO THE DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY  On
October 28, 2008, we issued to the United States Department of
the Treasury 25,000 shares of our Fixed Rate Cumulative
Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series D without par value, having a
liquidation preference per share equal to $1,000,000. The
Series D Preferred Stock pays cumulative dividends at a rate of
5% per year for the first five years and thereafter at a rate
of 9% per year. After three years, we may, at our option,
subject to any necessary bank regulatory approval, redeem the
Series D Preferred Stock at par value plus accrued and unpaid
dividends. The Series D Preferred Stock is generally
non-voting. Prior to October 28, 2011, unless we have redeemed
the Series D Preferred Stock or the Treasury has transferred
all of the Series D Preferred Stock to third parties, the
consent of the Treasury will be required for us to declare or
pay any dividends or make any distribution on our common stock,
other than regular quarterly cash dividends not exceeding $0.34
or dividends payable only in shares of its common stock, or
repurchase our common stock or other equity or capital
securities, other than in connection with benefit plans
consistent with past practice and certain

144  

other circumstances specified in the Securities Purchase
Agreement with the Treasury. Treasury, as part of the preferred
stock issuance, received warrants to purchase approximately
110.3 million shares of Wells Fargo common stock at an initial
exercise price of $34.01 (based on the trailing 20 day Wells
Fargo average stock price as of October 10, 2008). The proceeds
from Treasury were allocated based on the relative fair value
of the warrants as compared with the fair value of the
preferred stock. The fair value of the warrants was determined
using a valuation model which incorporates assumptions
including our common stock price, dividend yield, stock price
volatility and the risk-free interest rate. The fair value of
the preferred stock is determined based on assumptions
regarding the discount rate (market rate) on the preferred
stock which was estimated to be approximately 13% at the date
of issuance. The discount on the preferred stock will be
accreted to par value using a constant effective yield of 7.2%
over a five-year term, which is the expected life of the
preferred stock.

ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  All shares of our
ESOP (Employee Stock Ownership Plan) Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock (ESOP Preferred Stock) were issued to a trustee
acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan (the
401(k) Plan). Dividends on the ESOP Preferred Stock are
cumulative from the date of initial issuance and are payable
quarterly at annual rates ranging from 8.50% to 12.50%,
depending upon the year of issuance. Each share of ESOP
Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the
401(k) Plan is converted into shares of our common stock based
on the stated value of the ESOP Preferred Stock and the then
current market price of our common stock. The ESOP Preferred
Stock is also convertible at the option of the holder at any
time, unless previously redeemed. We have the option to redeem
the ESOP Preferred Stock at any time, in whole or in part, at a
redemption price per share equal to the higher of (a) $1,000
per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends or (b) the fair
market value, as defined in the Certificates of Designation for
the ESOP Preferred Stock.

(1) 
       
     Liquidation preference $1,000. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, additional paid-in capital
included $35 million and $32 million, respectively, related to preferred stock. 

(2) 
       
     In accordance
with the AICPA Statement of Position 93-6,  Employers  Accounting for Employee Stock Ownership
Plans , we recorded a corresponding charge to unearned ESOP shares in connection with the issuance
of the ESOP Preferred Stock. The unearned ESOP shares are reduced as shares of the ESOP Preferred
Stock are committed to be released. For information on dividends paid, see Note 19. 

145  

Note 19:     Common Stock and Stock Plans

Common Stock  

The following table presents our reserved, issued and authorized shares of common stock at December
31, 2008.

(1) 
       
     Includes employee option, restricted shares and restricted share rights, 401(k), profit sharing
and compensation deferral plans. 

Dividend Reinvestment and Common Stock Purchase Plans  

Participants in our dividend reinvestment and common stock direct purchase plans may purchase
shares of our common stock at fair market value by reinvesting dividends and/or making optional
cash payments, under the plan s terms.

Employee Stock Plans  

We offer the stock-based employee compensation plans described below. Effective January 1, 2006, we
adopted FAS 123(R),  Share-Based Payment , using the  modified prospective  transition method. FAS
123(R) requires that we measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of
equity instruments, such as stock options or restricted share rights (RSRs), based on the fair
value of the award on the grant date. The cost is normally recognized in our income statement over
the vesting period of the award; awards with graded vesting are expensed on a straight-line method.
Awards to retirement-eligible employees are subject to immediate expensing upon grant. Total stock
option compensation expense was $174 million in 2008, $129 million in 2007 and $134 million in
2006, with a related recognized tax benefit of $65 million, $49 million and $50 million for the
same years, respectively. Stock option expense is based on the fair value of the awards at the date
of grant. Prior to January 1, 2006, we did not record any compensation expense for stock options.

LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS   Our Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan provides for
awards of incentive and nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted shares,
RSRs, performance awards and stock awards without restrictions. Options must have an exercise price
at or above fair market value (as defined in the plan) of the stock at the date of grant (except
for substitute or replacement options granted in connection with mergers or other acquisitions) and
a term of no more than 10 years. Except for options granted in 2004 and 2005, which generally
vested in full upon grant, options generally become

exercisable over three years beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant. Except as
otherwise permitted under the plan, if employment is ended for reasons other than retirement,
permanent disability or death, the option exercise period is reduced or the options are canceled.

Options granted prior to 2004 may include the right to acquire a  reload  stock option. If an
option contains the reload feature and if a participant pays all or part of the exercise price of
the option with shares of stock purchased in the market or held by the participant for at least six
months and, in either case, not used in a similar transaction in the last six months, upon exercise
of the option, the participant is granted a new option to purchase, at the fair market value of the
stock as of the date of the reload, the number of shares of stock equal to the sum of the number of
shares used in payment of the exercise price and a number of shares with respect to related
statutory minimum withholding taxes. Reload grants are fully vested upon grant and are expensed
immediately under FAS 123(R) beginning in 2006.

Holders of RSRs are entitled to the related shares of common stock at no cost generally over
three to five years after the RSRs were granted. Holders of RSRs granted prior to July 2007 may be
entitled to receive cash payments equal to the cash dividends that would have been paid had the
RSRs been issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Except in limited circumstances, RSRs are
canceled when employment ends.

The compensation expense for RSRs equals the quoted market price of the related stock at the
date of grant and is accrued over the vesting period. Total compensation expense for RSRs was not
significant in 2008 or 2007.

For various acquisitions and mergers, we converted employee and director stock options of
acquired or merged companies into stock options to purchase our common stock based on the terms of
the original stock option plan and the agreed-upon exchange ratio. In addition, we converted
restricted stock awards into awards that entitle holders to our stock after the vesting conditions
are met. Holders receive cash dividends on outstanding awards if provided in the original award.

The total number of shares of common stock available for grant under the plans at December 31,
2008, was 235 million.

PARTNERSHARES    PLAN   In 1996, we adopted the  PartnerShares     Stock
Option Plan, a broad-based employee
stock option plan. It covers full- and part-time employees who generally were not included in the
long-term incentive compensation plan described above. No options have been granted under the plan
since 2002, and as a result of action taken by the Board of Directors on January 22, 2008, no
future awards will be granted under the plan. The exercise date of options granted under the
 PartnerShares  Plan is the earlier of (1) five years after the date of grant or (2) when the quoted
market price of the stock reaches a predetermined price. These

146  

options generally expire 10 years after the date of grant. Because the exercise price of each
 PartnerShares  Plan grant has been equal to or higher than the quoted market price of our common
stock at the date of grant, we did not recognize any compensation expense in 2005 and prior years.
In 2006, under FAS 123(R), we began to recognize expense related to these grants, based on the
remaining vesting period. All of our  PartnerShares  Plan grants were fully vested as of December 31,
2008.

Director Plan  

We grant common stock and options to purchase common stock to non-employee directors elected or
re-elected at the annual meeting of stockholders and prorated awards to directors who join the
Board at any other time. The stock

award vests immediately. Options granted in 2008 or earlier can be exercised after six months
through the tenth anniversary of the grant date. Stock awards and option grants were made to
non-employee directors under the Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan. As a result of
action taken by the Board of Directors on September 30, 2008, future stock awards and option grants
will be made under our Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan.

The table below summarizes stock option activity and related information for 2008. Options
assumed in mergers are included in the activity and related information for Incentive Compensation
Plans if originally issued under an employee plan, and in the activity and related information for
Director Plans if originally issued under a director plan.

(1)  
     Adjusted for estimated forfeitures. 

As of December 31, 2008, there was $140 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to
stock options. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.9 years.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during 2008 and 2007 was $348 million and $588
million, respectively.

Cash received from the exercise of options for 2008 and 2007 was $747 million and $1,026
million, respectively. The actual tax benefit recognized in stockholders  equity for the tax

deductions from the exercise of options totaled $123 million and $210 million, respectively, for
2008 and 2007.

We do not have a specific policy on repurchasing shares to satisfy share option exercises.
Rather, we have a general policy on repurchasing shares to meet common stock issuance requirements
for our benefit plans (including share option exercises), conversion of its convertible securities,
acquisitions, and other corporate purposes. Various factors determine the amount and timing of our
share repurchases,

147  

including our capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for acquisitions and
employee benefit plans, market conditions (including the trading price of our stock), and legal
considerations. These factors can change at any time, and there can be no assurance as to the
number of shares we will repurchase or when we will repurchase them.

Effective with the adoption of FAS 123(R), the fair value of each option award granted on or
after January 1, 2006, is estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model. The expected term of
options granted is generally based on the historical exercise behavior of full-term options. Our
expected volatilities are based on a combination of the historical volatility of our common stock
and implied volatilities for traded options on our common stock. The risk-free rate is based on the
U.S. Treasury zero-coupon yield curve in effect at the time of grant. Both expected volatility and
the risk-free rates are based on a period commensurate with our expected term. The expected
dividend is based on the current dividend, consideration of our historical pattern of dividend
increases and the market price of our stock.

Effective with the adoption of FAS 123(R), we changed our method of estimating our volatility
assumption. Prior to 2006, we used a volatility based on historical stock price changes. Effective
January 1, 2006, we used a volatility based on a combination of historical stock price changes and
implied volatilities of traded options as both volatilities are relevant in estimating our expected
volatility.

The following table presents the weighted-average per share fair value of options granted and
the assumptions used, based on a Black-Scholes option valuation model.

At December 31, 2008, there was $5 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
nonvested RSRs. The cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.4 years.
The total fair value of RSRs that vested during 2008 and 2007 was $1 million for both years.

A summary of the status of our RSRs and restricted share awards at December 31, 2008, and
changes during 2008 is in the following table:

The weighted-average grant-date fair value of RSRs granted during 2007 was $34.76.

Employee Stock Ownership Plan  

Under the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan (the 401(k) Plan), a defined contribution ESOP, the
401(k) Plan may borrow money to purchase our common or preferred stock. Since 1994, we have loaned
money to the  
401(k) Plan to purchase shares of our ESOP Preferred Stock. As we release and convert
ESOP Preferred Stock into common shares, we record compensation expense equal to the current market
price of the common shares. Dividends on the common shares allocated as a result of the release and
conversion of the ESOP Preferred Stock reduce retained earnings and the shares are considered
outstanding for computing earnings per share. Dividends on the unallocated ESOP Preferred Stock do
not reduce retained earnings, and the shares are not considered to be common stock equivalents for
computing earnings per share. Loan principal and interest payments are made from our contributions
to the 401(k) Plan, along with dividends paid on the ESOP Preferred Stock. With each principal and
interest payment, a portion of the ESOP Preferred Stock is released and, after conversion of the
ESOP Preferred Stock into common shares, allocated to the 401(k) Plan participants.

The balance of ESOP shares, the dividends on allocated shares of common stock and unreleased
preferred shares paid to the 401(k) Plan and the fair value of unearned ESOP shares were:

Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Sales Agents  

WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Parent formed solely to
sponsor a deferred compensation plan for independent sales agents who provide investment, financial
and other qualifying services for or with respect to participating affiliates. The Nonqualified
Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors, which became effective January 1, 2002,
allows participants to defer all or part of their eligible compensation payable to them by a
participating affiliate. The Parent has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the deferred
compensation obligations of WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. under the plan.

148  

Note 20:     Employee Benefits and Other Expenses

Employee Benefits  

We sponsor noncontributory qualified defined benefit retirement plans including the Wells Fargo  
Company Cash Balance Plan (Cash Balance Plan), which covers eligible employees of the legacy Wells
Fargo and the Wachovia Corporation Pension Plan (Pension Plan), a cash balance plan that covers
eligible employees of the legacy Wachovia Corporation.

Under the Cash Balance Plan, eligible employees  Cash Balance Plan accounts are allocated a
compensation credit based on a percentage of their qualifying compensation. The compensation credit
percentage is based on age and years of credited service. In addition, investment credits are
allocated to participants quarterly based on their accumulated balances. Prior to January 1, 2008,
employees became vested in their Cash Balance Plan accounts after completing five years of vesting
service or reaching age 65, if earlier. Effective January 1, 2008, employees become vested in their
Cash Balance Plan accounts after completing three years of vesting service or reaching age 65, if
earlier.

Under the Pension Plan, eligible employees who were hired prior to January 1, 2008, are
allocated an annual compensation credit based on a percentage of their qualifying compensation. The
compensation credit is based on their level of compensation. In addition, investment credits are
allocated to participants annually based on their accumulated balances. Effective January 1, 2008,
employees become vested in their Pension Plan accounts after completing three years of vesting
service.

We made a $250 million contribution to our Cash Balance Plan in 2008 although a contribution
was not required. We expect that we will not be required to make a contribution to the Cash Balance
Plan or the Pension Plan in 2009, however, this is dependent on the finalization of participant
data. Our decision of whether to make a contribution in 2009 will be based on various factors
including the maximum deductible contribution under the Internal Revenue Code and the actual
investment performance of plan assets during 2009. Given these uncertainties, we cannot estimate at
this time the amount, if any, that we will contribute in 2009 to the Cash Balance Plan or Pension
Plan. The total amount contributed for our other pension plans in 2008 was $33 million. For the
unfunded nonqualified pension plans and postretirement benefit plans, we will contribute the
minimum required amount in 2009, which equals the benefits paid under the plans. In 2008, we paid
$65 million in benefits for the postretirement plans, which included $39 million in retiree
contributions.

We sponsor defined contribution retirement plans including the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k)
Plan (401(k) Plan) and the Wachovia Savings Plan (Savings Plan). We also have a frozen defined
contribution plan resulting from a company acquired by Wachovia. No contributions are permitted to
that plan. Under the 401(k) Plan, after one month of service, eligible employees may contribute up
to 25% of their pre-tax qualifying compensation, although there may be a lower limit for certain
highly compensated employees in order to maintain the qualified status of the 401(k) Plan. Eligible
employees who complete one year of service are eligible for matching company contributions, which
are generally a 100% match up to 6% of an employee s qualifying compensation. The matching
contributions generally vest over four years.

Under the Savings Plan, after one month of service, eligible employees may contribute up to
30% of their qualifying compensation on a pre-tax or after-tax basis, although there may be a lower
limit for certain highly compensated employees in order to maintain the qualified status of this
Savings Plan. Eligible employees who complete one year of service are eligible for matching company
contributions, which are generally a 100% match up to 6% of an employee s qualifying compensation.
The matching contributions vest immediately.

Expenses for defined contribution retirement plans were $411 million, $426 million and $373
million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

We provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain retired employees and reserve
the right to terminate or amend any of the benefits at any time.

The information set forth in the following tables is based on current actuarial reports using
the measurement date of December 31 for our pension and postretirement benefit plans.

Under FAS 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R) , we were required to change the
measurement date for our pension and postretirement plan assets and benefit obligations from
November 30 to December 31 beginning in 2008. To reflect this change, we recorded an $8 million
(after tax) adjustment to the 2008 beginning balance of retained earnings.

149  

The changes in the projected benefit obligation of pension benefits and the accumulated
benefit obligation of other benefits and the fair value of plan assets during 2008 and

2007, the funded status at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the amounts recognized in the balance
sheet at December 31, 2008 and 2007, were:

(1) 
       
     Represents acquisition of Greater Bay Bancorp on October 1, 2007. 

(2) 
       
     Excludes foreign benefit plans of Wachovia with a total benefit obligation of $32 million, a
fair value of plan assets of $30 million, and an underfunded status of $2 million. 

(3) 
       
     Represents change in benefit obligation and plan assets during December 2007 to reflect an
additional month of activity due to the change in measurement date from November 30 to December 31
as required by FAS 158. 

Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (pre tax) for the year ended December
31, 2008 and 2007, consist of:

The net actuarial loss and net prior service credit for the defined benefit pension plans that
will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost in
2009 are $430 million and $5 million, respectively. The net actuarial loss and net prior service
credit for the other postretirement plans that will be amortized from accumulated other
comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost in 2009 are $3 million and $4 million,
respectively.

The weighted-average assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation were:

(1)  
     Includes both qualified and nonqualified pension benefits. 

150  

The accumulated benefit obligation for the defined benefit pension plans was $9,423 million
and $4,734 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

We seek to achieve the expected long-term rate of return with a prudent level of risk given
the benefit obligations of the pension plans and their funded status. We target the asset
allocation for our Cash Balance Plan and Pension Plan at a target mix range of 35 65% equities,
20 50% fixed income, and approximately 15% in real estate, venture capital, private equity and
other investments. The target ranges referenced above account for the employment of an asset
allocation methodology designed to overweight stocks or bonds when a compelling opportunity exists.
The Employee Benefit Review Committee (EBRC), which includes several members of senior management,
formally reviews the investment risk and performance of our Cash Balance Plan on a quarterly basis
and will incorporate the Pension Plan into this process starting in 2009. Annual Plan liability
analysis and periodic asset/liability evaluations are also conducted.

The weighted-average allocation of plan assets was:

(1) 
       
     Excludes approximately $46 million in assets associated with Wachovia Retiree Medical Benefit
plans, which are invested in a combination of municipal bonds, money market investments and a Trust
Owned Life insurance policy for the purpose of paying claims. 

The table below provides information for pension plans with benefit obligations in excess of
plan assets.

The components of net periodic benefit cost were:

(1) 
       
     Net actuarial loss is generally amortized over five years. 

151  

The weighted-average assumptions used to determine the net periodic benefit cost were:

(1)  
     Includes both qualified and nonqualified pension benefits. 

The long-term rate of return assumptions above were derived based on a combination of factors
including (1) long-term historical return experience for major asset class categories (for example,
large cap and small cap domestic equities, international equities and domestic fixed income), and
(2) forward-looking return expectations for these major asset classes.

To account for postretirement health care plans we use health care cost trend rates to
recognize the effect of expected changes in future health care costs due to medical inflation,
utilization changes, new technology, regulatory requirements and Medicare cost shifting. We assumed
average annual increases of approximately 9% (before age 65) and 8.5% (after age 65) for health
care costs for 2009. The rates of average annual increases are assumed to trend down 0.5% each year
until the trend rates reach an ultimate trend of 5% in 2017 (before age 65) and 2016 (after age
65). Increasing the assumed health care trend by one percentage point in each year would increase
the benefit obligation as of December 31, 2008, by $60 million and the total of the interest cost
and service cost components of the net periodic benefit cost for 2008 by $5 million. Decreasing the
assumed health care trend by one percentage point in each year would decrease the benefit
obligation as of December 31, 2008, by $55 million and the total of the interest cost and service
cost components of the net periodic benefit cost for 2008 by $4 million.

The investment strategy for assets held in the Retiree Medical Plan Voluntary Employees 
Beneficiary Association (VEBA) trust and other pension plans is maintained separate from the
strategy for the assets in the Cash Balance Plan and Pension Plan. The general target asset mix is
 
45 65% equities and 35 55% fixed income. In addition, the strategy for the VEBA trust assets
considers the effect of income taxes by utilizing a combination of variable annuity and low
turnover investment strategies. Members of the EBRC formally review the investment risk and
performance of these assets on a quarterly basis.

Future benefits, reflecting expected future service that we expect to pay under the pension
and other benefit plans, follow.

Other benefits payments are expected to be reduced by prescription drug subsidies from the
federal government provided by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
2003, as follows:

Other Expenses  

Expenses exceeding 1% of total interest income and noninterest income in any of the years presented
that are not otherwise shown separately in the financial statements or Notes to Financial
Statements were:

152  

Note 21:     Income Taxes

The components of income tax expense were:

The tax benefit related to the exercise of employee stock options recorded in stockholders 
equity was $123 million, $210 million and $229 million for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

We had a net deferred tax asset of $13,864 million for 2008 and a net deferred tax liability
of $4,657 million for 2007. Our net deferred tax asset (liability) and the tax effects of temporary
differences that gave rise to significant portions of these deferred tax assets and liabilities are
presented in the table on the right.

We have determined that a valuation reserve is required for 2008 in the amount of $973 million
primarily attributable to deferred tax assets in various state and foreign jurisdictions where we
believe it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will not be realized. In these
jurisdictions, carry back limitations, lack of sources of taxable income, and tax planning strategy
limitations contributed to our conclusion that the deferred tax assets would not be realizable. We
have concluded that it is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax assets will be
realized based on our history of earnings, sources of taxable income in carry back periods, and our
ability to implement tax planning strategies.

At December 31, 2008, we had net operating loss and credit carry forwards with related
deferred tax assets of $424 million and $96 million, respectively. If these carry forwards are not
utilized, they will expire in varying amounts through 2028.

Deferred taxes related to net unrealized losses on securities available for sale, net
unrealized gains on derivatives, foreign currency translation, and employee benefit plan
adjustments are recorded in cumulative other comprehensive income.

At December 31, 2008, Wachovia had undistributed foreign earnings of $2.2 billion related to
foreign subsidiaries. We intend to reinvest these earnings indefinitely outside the U.S. and
accordingly have not provided $669 million of income tax liability on these earnings.

The table below reconciles the statutory federal income tax expense and rate to the effective
income tax expense and rate.

153  

Income tax expense for 2008 and the effective tax rate included FIN 48 tax benefits of $126
million, as well as the impact of lower pre-tax earnings and higher levels of tax-exempt income and
tax credits.

The change in unrecognized tax benefits in 2008 and 2007 follows:

(1) 
       
     Unrecognized tax benefits from the Wachovia acquisition. 

Of the $7,521 million of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2008, approximately $2,718
million would, if recognized, affect the effective tax rate. The remaining $4,803 million of
unrecognized tax benefits relates to income tax positions on temporary differences.

We recognize interest and penalties as a component of income tax expense. At the end of 2008
and 2007, we accrued approximately $1,560 million and $230 million for the payment of interest,
respectively. The increase in accrued interest is primarily related to interest accrued by Wachovia
prior to the acquisition. Interest expense of $62 million (after tax) and interest income of $34
million (after tax) was recognized for 2008 and 2007, respectively, as a component of income tax
expense.

We are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income tax in numerous state and foreign
jurisdictions. With few exceptions, Wells Fargo and its subsidiaries are not subject to federal
income tax examinations for taxable years prior to 2005, and state, local and foreign income tax
examinations for taxable years prior to 2004. Wachovia Corporation and its subsidiaries, with few
exceptions, are no longer subject to federal income tax examinations for taxable years prior to
2003, and state, local and foreign income tax examinations for taxable years prior to 2000.

We are routinely examined by tax authorities in various jurisdictions. The Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) is currently examining Wachovia Corporation and its Subsidiaries for tax years 2003
through 2005 and certain non-consolidated Wachovia subsidiaries
for tax years 2001 through 2006. In
addition, Wachovia is appealing various issues related to their 2000 through 2002 tax years.
Wachovia is also currently subject to examination by various state, local and foreign taxing
authorities. While it is possible that one or more of these examinations may be resolved within the
next twelve months, we do not anticipate that there will be a significant impact to the
unrecognized tax benefits as a result of these examinations. In October of 2008, Wachovia submitted
a nonbinding acceptance to participate in the IRS resolution offer related to sale-in, lease-out
(SILO) transactions. We are awaiting further information from the IRS to evaluate the full impact
of the resolution offer on our financial statements. Acceptance of the resolution offer could
significantly impact our unrecognized tax benefits.

The IRS is examining the 2005 and 2006 consolidated federal income tax returns of Wells Fargo
  Company and its Subsidiaries. We anticipate the audit phase of this examination will be completed
in 2009. We are also litigating or appealing various issues related to our prior IRS examinations
for the periods 1997-2004. We have paid the IRS the contested income tax associated with these
issues and refund claims have been filed for the respective years. We are also under examination in
numerous other taxing jurisdictions. While it is possible that one or more of these examinations
may be resolved within the next 12 months, we do not anticipate that these examinations will
significantly impact our uncertain tax positions. We are estimating that our unrecognized tax
benefits could decrease by between $350 million and $3.5 billion during the next 12 months
primarily related to the potential resolution of the Wachovia SILO transactions, statute
expirations and settlements.

154  

Note 22:     Earnings Per Common Share

The table below shows earnings per common share and diluted earnings per common share and
reconciles the numerator and denominator of both earnings per common share calculations.

At December 31, 2008, options and warrants to purchase 172.4 million and 110.3 million shares,
respectively, were

outstanding but not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common
share because the exercise price was higher than the market price, and therefore were antidilutive.
At December 31, 2007 and 2006, options to purchase 13.8 million and 6.7 million shares,
respectively, were antidilutive.

Note 23:     Other Comprehensive Income

The components of other comprehensive income and the related tax effects were:

155  

Cumulative other comprehensive income balances were:

(1) Adoption of FAS 158.

Note 24:     Operating Segments

We have three lines of business for management reporting: Community Banking, Wholesale Banking and
Wells Fargo Financial. The results for these lines of business are based on our management
accounting process, which assigns balance sheet and income statement items to each responsible
operating segment. This process is dynamic and, unlike financial accounting, there is no
comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management accounting equivalent to generally accepted
accounting principles. The management accounting process measures the performance of the operating
segments based on our management structure and is not necessarily comparable with similar
information for other financial services companies. We define our operating segments by product
type and customer segments. If the management structure and/or the allocation process changes,
allocations, transfers and assignments may change. Because the Wachovia acquisition was completed
on December 31, 2008, Wachovia s results are not included in the segment results or average
balances for 2008. To reflect the realignment of our corporate trust business from Community
Banking into Wholesale Banking in 2008, results for prior periods have been revised.

The Community Banking Group  offers a complete line of diversified financial products and
services to consumers and small businesses with annual sales generally up to $20 million in which
the owner generally is the financial decision maker. Community Banking also offers investment
management and other services to retail customers and high net worth individuals, securities
brokerage through affiliates and venture capital financing. These products and services include the
 Wells Fargo Advantage Funds  SM , a family of mutual funds, as well as personal trust and
agency assets. Loan products include lines of credit, equity lines and loans, equipment and
transportation (recreational vehicle and marine) loans, education loans, origination and purchase
of

residential mortgage loans and servicing of mortgage loans and credit cards. Other credit
products and financial services available to small businesses and their owners include receivables
and inventory financing, equipment leases, real estate financing, Small Business Administration
financing, venture capital financing, cash management, payroll services, retirement plans, Health
Savings Accounts and merchant payment processing. Consumer and business deposit products include
checking accounts, savings deposits, market rate accounts, Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs),
time deposits and debit cards.

Community Banking serves customers through a wide range of channels, which include traditional
banking stores, in-store banking centers, business centers and ATMs. Also,  Phone Bank  SM
 centers and the National Business Banking Center provide 24-hour telephone service. Online
banking services include single sign-on to online banking, bill pay and brokerage, as well as
online banking for small business.

The Wholesale Banking Group  serves businesses across the United States with annual sales
generally in excess of $10 million. Wholesale Banking provides a complete line of commercial,
corporate and real estate banking products and services. These include traditional commercial loans
and lines of credit, letters of credit, asset-based lending, equipment leasing, mezzanine
financing, high-yield debt, international trade facilities, foreign exchange services, treasury
management, investment management, institutional fixed-income sales, interest rate, commodity and
equity risk management, online/electronic products such as the
 Commercial Electronic Office     ( CEO    ) portal, insurance, corporate trust fiduciary and agency
services and investment banking services. Wholesale Banking manages and administers institutional
investments, employee benefit trusts and mutual funds, including the  Wells Fargo Advantage Funds .

156  

Wholesale Banking includes the majority ownership interest in the Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank,
which provides trade financing, letters of credit and collection services and is sometimes
supported by the Export-Import Bank of the United States (a public agency of the United States
offering export finance support for American-made products). Wholesale Banking also supports the
commercial real estate market with products and services such as construction loans for commercial
and residential development, land acquisition and development loans, secured and unsecured lines of
credit, interim financing arrangements for completed structures, rehabilitation loans, affordable
housing loans and letters of credit, permanent loans for securitization, commercial real estate
loan servicing and real estate and mortgage brokerage services.

Wells Fargo Financial  includes consumer finance and auto finance operations. Consumer finance
operations make direct consumer and real estate loans to individuals and purchase sales finance
contracts from retail merchants from offices throughout the United States, and in Canada and the
Pacific Rim. Auto finance operations specialize in making loans secured by autos in the United
States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Wells Fargo Financial also provides credit cards and lease and
other commercial financing.

The  Other  column includes certain items recorded at the enterprise level. The provision for
credit losses for 2008 represents the $1.2 billion provision for credit losses to conform Wachovia
estimated loss emergence periods to Wells Fargo policies. Average assets for 2008 and 2007 consist
of unallocated goodwill.

(1) 
       
     Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on assets and the cost of
liabilities to fund those assets. Interest earned includes actual interest earned on segment assets
and, if the segment has excess liabilities, interest credits for providing funding to other
segments. The cost of liabilities includes interest expense on segment liabilities and, if the
segment does not have enough liabilities to fund its assets, a funding charge based on the cost of
excess liabilities from another segment.
In general, Community Banking has excess liabilities and receives interest credits for the funding
it provides to other segments. 

157  

Note 25:     Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements

Following are the condensed consolidating financial statements of the Parent and Wells Fargo
Financial, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (WFFI). In 2002, the Parent issued a full and
unconditional guarantee of all outstanding term debt securities and commercial paper of WFFI. WFFI
ceased filing periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is no longer a
separately rated company. The Parent also guaranteed all outstanding
term debt securities of Wells
Fargo Financial Canada

Corporation
(WFFCC),  WFFI s wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary. WFFCC has
continued to issue term debt securities and commercial paper in Canada, unconditionally guaranteed
by the Parent. The Wells Fargo Financial business segment for management reporting (see Note 24)
consists of WFFI and other affiliated consumer finance entities managed by WFFI that are included
within other consolidating subsidiaries in the following tables.

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income 

158  

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income 

159  

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets 

160  

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows 

161  

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows 

Note 26:     Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements

The Company and each of its subsidiary banks are subject to various regulatory capital adequacy
requirements administered by the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) and the OCC, respectively. The Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA) required that the federal regulatory
agencies adopt regulations defining five capital tiers for banks: well capitalized, adequately
capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized.
Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and possibly
additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material
effect on our financial statements.

Quantitative measures, established by the regulators to ensure capital adequacy, require that
the Company and each of the subsidiary banks maintain minimum ratios (set forth in the following
table) of capital to risk-weighted assets. There are three categories of capital under the
guidelines. Tier 1 capital includes common stockholders  equity, qualifying preferred stock and
trust preferred securities, less goodwill and certain other deductions (including a portion of
servicing assets and the unrealized net gains and losses, after taxes, on securities available for
sale). Tier 2 capital includes preferred stock not qualifying as Tier 1 capital, subordinated debt,
the allowance for credit losses and net unrealized gains

162  

on marketable equity securities, subject to
limitations by the guidelines. Tier 2 capital is
limited to the amount of Tier 1 capital (i.e., at
least half of the total capital must be in the form
of Tier 1 capital). Tier 3 capital includes certain
qualifying unsecured subordinated debt.

We do not consolidate our wholly-owned trusts
(the Trusts) formed solely to issue trust preferred
securities. The amount of trust preferred securities
and perpetual preferred purchase securities issued by
the Trusts that was includable in Tier 1 capital in
accordance with FRB risk-based capital guidelines was
$19.3 billion at December 31, 2008. The junior
subordinated debentures held by the Trusts were
included in the Company s long-term debt. See Note 14
for additional information on trust preferred
securities.

Under the guidelines, capital is compared with
the relative risk related to the balance sheet. To
derive the risk included in the balance sheet, a risk
weighting is applied to each balance sheet asset and
off-balance sheet item, primarily based on the
relative credit risk of the counterparty. For

example, claims guaranteed by the U.S. government or
one of its agencies are risk-weighted at 0% and
certain real estate related loans risk-weighted at
50%. Off-balance sheet items, such as loan commitments
and derivatives, are also applied a risk weight after
calculating balance sheet equivalent amounts. A credit
conversion factor is assigned to loan commitments
based on the likelihood of the off-balance sheet item
becoming an asset. For example, certain loan
commitments are converted at 50% and then
risk-weighted at 100%. Derivatives are converted to
balance sheet equivalents based on notional values,
replacement costs and remaining contractual terms. See
Notes 6 and 16 for further discussion of off-balance
sheet items. For certain recourse obligations, direct
credit substitutes, residual interests in asset
securitization, and other securitized transactions
that expose institutions primarily to credit risk, the
capital amounts and classification under the
guidelines are subject to qualitative judgments by the
regulators about components, risk weightings and other
factors.

(1) 
       
     The leverage ratio consists of Tier 1 capital divided by quarterly average total assets,
excluding goodwill and certain other items. The minimum leverage ratio guideline is 3% for banking
organizations that do not anticipate significant growth and that have well-diversified risk,
excellent asset quality, high liquidity, good earnings, effective management and monitoring of
market risk and, in general, are considered top-rated, strong banking organizations. 

Management believes that, as of December 31,
2008, the Company and each of the covered
subsidiary banks met all capital adequacy
requirements to which they are subject.

The most recent notification from the OCC
categorized each of the covered subsidiary banks as
well capitalized, under the FDICIA prompt corrective
action provisions applicable to banks. To be
categorized as well capitalized, the institution must
maintain a total risk-based capital ratio as set forth
in the table above and not be subject to a capital
directive order. There are no conditions or events
since that notification that management believes have
changed the risk-based capital category of any of the
covered subsidiary banks.

Certain subsidiaries of the Company are approved
seller/ servicers, and are therefore required to
maintain minimum levels of shareholders  equity, as
specified by various agencies, including the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development,
Government National Mortgage Association, Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corporation and Federal National
Mortgage Association. At December 31, 2008, each
seller/servicer met these requirements.

163  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

The Board of Directors and
Stockholders  
Wells Fargo   Company:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Wells Fargo   Company and
Subsidiaries ( the Company ) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated
statements of income, changes in stockholders  equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2008. These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of
evaluating other-than-temporary impairment on certain investment securities in 2008 and changed its
method of accounting for certain mortgages held for sale in 2007.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2008, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated
February 23, 2009, expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting.

San Francisco, California 
February 23, 2009

164  

Quarterly Financial Data  

Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income   Quarterly (Unaudited) 

(1) Based on daily prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting
System.

165  

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 9
 f51597exv21.htm
 EX-21

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

1005 Corp.

North Carolina 

1020 Leavenworth Street Lessee Limited Liability Company

Nebraska 

1024 Dodge Street Limited Partnership

Nebraska 

110 Monastery Associates, Limited Partnership

Massachusetts 

1368 Euclid Street Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

150 Miami Associates Tenant, LLC

Florida 

1CC-Waco TX, LLC

Delaware 

1st Capital Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

2007 Vento II, LLC

Delaware 

3217917 Nova Scotia Company

Canada-Nova Scotia 

343 South Dearborn II, LLC

Illlinois 

425 South Tryon Street, LLC

North Carolina 

509 Vine Street Tenant, L.P.

Pennsylvania 

660 Master, LLC

Ohio 

A.G. Edwards Technology Group, Inc.

Missouri 

A.G. Edwards Technology Partners

Missouri 

A.G. Edwards   Sons (U.K.) Limited

United Kingdom 

A.G. Edwards   Sons, LLC

Delaware 

A.G. Edwards Capital, Inc.

Delaware 

A.G. Edwards Hedging Services, Inc.

Nevada 

A.G. Edwards Private Equity Partners II, L.P.

Delaware 

A.G. Edwards Private Equity Partners QP II, L.P.

Delaware 

A.G. Edwards Private Equity Partners QP, L.P.

Delaware 

A.G. Edwards Private Equity Partners, L.P.

Delaware 

A.G. Edwards, Inc.

Delaware 

ABCA, Inc

Florida 

ABD Financial Services, Inc.

Colorado 

ABD Insurance and Financial Services

California 

ACAS/WCM, LLC

Delaware 

ACO Brokerage Holdings Corporation

Delaware 

Acordia of Indiana, Inc.

Indiana 

Adams at Broad Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

Advance Mortgage

Virginia 

Advantage Mortgage Partners, LLC

Delaware 

AGE Capital Holding, Inc.

Delaware 

AGE International, Inc.

Delaware 

AGE Investments, Inc.

Delaware 

AHC Limited Partnership - 10

Virginia 

AHC
Limited Partnership - 11

Virginia 

AHG Tax Credit Fund I, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund II, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund III, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund IV, L.L.C.

Delaware 

1 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

AHG Tax Credit Fund IX, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund V, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund VI, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund VII, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund X, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund XII L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund XIV, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund XVI, L.P.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund XVII, L.P.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund XVIII, LLC

Delaware 

Alano Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Alaska Best Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Alces Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Alexandria Apartments/Condo Holdings, L.L.C.

Delaware 

Alliance Group Lending, LLC

Delaware 

Alliance Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Alopekis Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Alta Mesa AZ, LLC

Delaware 

AM/F Managing Member, LLC

Delaware 

AM/F2 Managing Member, LLC

Delaware 

AM/F4A Managing Member, LLC

Delaware 

Amber Asset Management Inc.

Maryland 

American Capital/Wachovia CDO Investor Fund, L.P.

Delaware 

American E   S Insurance Brokers California, Inc.

California 

American Mortgage Network, Inc.

Delaware 

American Priority Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

American Securities Company

California 

American Securities Company of Missouri

Missouri 

American Securities Company of Nevada

Nevada 

American Securities Company of Utah

Utah 

American Southern Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

American Tobacco SCP, LP

Maryland 

AmNet Mortgage, Inc.

Maryland 

APM Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Appomattox Governor s School L.P.

Virginia 

Ascent Financial Services, LLC

Delaware 

Ashton Woods Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Aspen Delaware Funding, LLC

Delaware 

ATC Realty Fifteen, Inc.

California 

ATC Realty Nine, Inc.

California 

ATC Realty Sixteen, Inc.

California 

Atlas - OCI Enhanced Loan Income Fund LLC

Delaware 

Atlas Advisors, Inc.

California 

2 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Atlas Capital Funding, Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

Atlas Loan Funding (CENT I), LLC

Delaware 

Atlas Loan Funding (Hartford), LLC

Delaware 

Atlas Loan Funding (Navigator), LLC

Delaware 

Atlas Loan Funding 2, LLC

Delaware 

Augusta Landings Raleigh, LLC

Delaware 

Augustus Ventures, L.L.C.

Nevada 

Aurora GP Holding, LLC

Delaware 

AZ-#3644 Jackson, LLC

Delaware 

Azalea Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Bacon Housing, L.P.

Virginia 

BAFSC/WLC CX HUP I Trust

Delaware 

BAFSC/WLC CX HUP II Trust

Delaware 

BAFSC/WLC CX HUP, Ltd.

Bermuda 

Bankers Funding Company, LLC

Delaware 

Barrington Crestview GA, LLC

Delaware 

Bart, Inc.

Florida 

Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards Housing Investors, Inc.

California 

Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards Realty Co., Incorporated

California 

Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards Realty Services, Inc.

California 

Bay Harbor Homes, LLC

Delaware 

Bayshore Insurance Agency, Inc.

Texas 

Beaumont Insurance Company

Vermont 

BEHR Housing Investors 1981-1, L.P.

California 

Belgravia Mortgage Group, LLC

Delaware 

Benefit Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

BenefitElect Alliance, LLC

Georgia 

Bergamasco Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Berks Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

Besso Holdings Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Operational Support Services Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Re Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Risk Solutions Ltd

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Special Groups Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Transportation Limited

United Kingdom-England 

BGMCO PA, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

BHS Home Loans, LLC

Delaware 

Biggs Building SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Biscoe Finance, LLC

Delaware 

Bitterroot Asset Management, Inc.

Cayman Islands 

Blackhawk Bancorporation

Iowa 

Blue Spirit Insurance Company

Vermont 

3 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Bluebonnet Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

BluePoint Holdings Limited

Bermuda 

Bluffwalk Center Lessee, L.P.

Virginia 

Bluffwalk SCP, L.L.C.

Virginia 

Boettcher Properties, Ltd.

Colorado 

Bowler Housing L.P.

Virginia 

Boxer Building LLC

North Carolina 

BPL Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

B-R Penn Tenant, LLC

Pennsylvania 

Bridgewater Falls Hamilton, LLC

Delaware 

Brittlebush Financing, LLC

Nevada 

Bryan, Pendleton, Swats   McAllister, LLC

Tennessee 

Business Development Corporation of South Carolina

South Carolina 

CACC SCP, LP

Virginia 

CACC Tenant, LP

Virginia 

Calibre Advisory Services, Inc.

Delaware 

Canal Walk Lofts II L.P.

Virginia 

Canal Walk Lofts II SCP L.P.

Virginia 

Canal Walk Lofts III SCP L.P.

Virginia 

Canal Walk Lofts III Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

Canal Walk Lofts Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

Capitol Finance Group, Inc.

North Carolina 

Capitol Places IV, LLC

South Carolina 

Capstone Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Cardinal Finance Corporation

Delaware 

Cardinal Holding, Inc.

New York 

Cardinal International Leasing, LLC

Delaware 

Cardinal Oreo Finance Corporation

Delaware 

Carnation Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

CAROLINA/CONSOLIDATED SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Cascade Home Lending, LLC

Delaware 

Caveness Partners, LLC

Delaware 

Cayman Bay Apartments, LLC

Delaware 

CBC Affinity Groups Limited

United Kingdom-England 

CBC UK Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Centennial Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Central Federal Mortgage Company

Not Required 

Central Fidelity Capital Trust I

Delaware 

Central Fidelity Properties, Inc.

Virginia 

Centurion Agency Nevada, Inc.

Nevada 

Centurion Casualty Company

Iowa 

Centurion Funding, Inc.

California 

Centurion Funding, LLC

Delaware 

4 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Centurion Life Insurance Company

Iowa 

Century Bancshares, Inc.

Texas 

Century Bank, National Association

United States 

Century Capital Trust

Delaware 

Century Mill Investors LLC

Delaware 

Cervus Funding, L.P.

Delaware 

CFC Acushnet Avenue, LLC

Delaware 

CGT Insurance Company LTD.

Barbados 

Charter Holdings, Inc.

Nevada 

Chestnut Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Choice Mortgage Servicing, LLC

Delaware 

City First Capital III, LLC

Delaware 

City First Capital V, LLC

Delaware 

City First Capital XI, LLC

Delaware 

City Market Lofts SCP, LLC

North Carolina 

City Market Lofts Tenant, LLC

North Carolina 

CityLife Lending Group, LLC

Delaware 

CMLB 2001, LLC

Delaware 

CNB Investment Trust I

Maryland 

CNB Investment Trust II

Maryland 

Coliseum Lofts, L.P.

Virginia 

Collin Equities, Inc.

Texas 

Colorado Mortgage Alliance, LLC

Delaware 

Colorado Professionals Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

CoLTS 2005-1, Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

CoLTS 2007-1, Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

CoLTS LLC 2005-1

Delaware 

CoLTS LLC 2005-2

Delaware 

CoLTS LLC 2007-1

Delaware 

Columbine Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Columbus RI Operator, LLC

North Carolina 

Congress Financial Capital (US) Corporation

Delaware 

Congress Financial Capital Company

Canada-Nova Scotia 

Congress Financial Capital Corporation (Canada)

Canada-Ontario 

Consortium America II, LLC (Washington, D.C.)

Delaware 

Cookman Restoration L.L.C.

New Jersey 

CoreStates Capital I

Delaware 

CoreStates Capital II

Delaware 

CoreStates Capital III

Delaware 

CoreStates Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Crocker Properties, Inc.

California 

CTB Realty Ventures XXI, Inc.

Connecticut 

CWC MT, LLC

Virginia 

5 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

CWC SCP, LLC

Virginia 

Danube Holdings I C.V.

Netherlands 

Danube Holdings II C.V.

Netherlands 

Danube Holdings III C.V.

Netherlands 

Davenport Alley, L.P.

Virginia 

Delaware Trust Company, National Association

United States 

Desert Mirage Gilbert, LLC

Delaware 

DH Financial, LLC

Delaware 

Dial Finance Company, Inc.

Nevada 

Dial National Community Benefits, Inc.

Nevada 

Dooley Transport, LLC

Illinois 

Downtown Revival Limited Partnership

Pennsylvania 

Dulles Station Herndon, LLC

Delaware 

Eastdil Secured, L.L.C.

New York 

Eaton Village Associates, Ltd. Co.

New Mexico 

ECM Holdings Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Edgeworth SCP, LLC

Virginia 

Edward Jones Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Edwards Development Corporation

Missouri 

EIMCO Trust

Massachusetts 

Electric Building Tenant LLC

Mississippi 

Elf Tenant, L.P.

Virginia 

Elite Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Ellis Advertising, Inc.

Iowa 

EMAR Group, Inc.

New Jersey 

EnerVestWachovia CoInvestment Partnership, L.P.

Delaware 

Ennis Home Mortgage, LP

Delaware 

Epic Funding Corporation

California 

Equity Insurance Agency, Inc.

New Jersey 

European Credit Management Limited

United Kingdom 

EVEREN Capital Corporation

Delaware 

Everen Leasing, LLC

Delaware 

Evergreen Alternative Capital, Inc.

Delaware 

Evergreen Asset Management Corp.

New York 

Evergreen ECM Holdings B.V.

Netherlands 

Evergreen Financing Company, LLC

Delaware 

Evergreen International SMID Cap Absolute Return Offshore Fund Ltd

UK-Cayman Islands 

Evergreen International SMID Cap Absolute Return Offshore Master Fund Ltd

UK-Cayman Islands 

Evergreen International SMID Cap Absolute Return, LLC

Delaware 

Evergreen Investment Company, Inc.

North Carolina 

Evergreen Investment Management Company, LLC

Delaware 

Evergreen Investment Management Trust

Delaware 

Evergreen Investment Services, Inc.

Delaware 

6 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Evergreen Offshore SMID Cap Holding Co., LLC

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Equity Fund II, L. P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Equity Fund, L.P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Investment Funds-Absolute Return Fund, Super Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Investment Funds-Global MultiStrategy Fund, Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Investment Funds-Hedged Equities Super Accredited, L. P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Investment Funds-Hedged Opportunities Fund, Accredited, L. P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Investment Funds-MultiStrategy Accredited, L. P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Investment Funds-MultiStrategy Fund II, Super Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Investment Funds-MultiStrategy Super Accredited, L. P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Investment Funds-ULQ, L.P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Service Company LLC

Delaware 

Evergreen Worldwide Distributors, Ltd.

Bermuda 

Evergreen Worldwide U.S. Dollar Fund, Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

Express Financial   Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

FA Recruiting Services, LLC

Texas 

Fairway 05 Housing, LP

Delaware 

Fairways 340 LLC

Delaware 

Falcon Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Family Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Farmington, Incorporated

North Carolina 

FC Ashton Mill Master Lessee, LLC

Rhode Island 

FC CONSOLIDATED MASTER LESSEE, LLC

Ohio 

FC Edgeworth Lessor, LLC

Virginia 

FC Edgeworth Master Lessee, LLC

Virginia 

FC Lucky Strike Lessor, LLC

Virginia 

FC Lucky Strike Master Lessee, LLC

Virginia 

FCC-PR, Inc

Puerto Rico 

FFBIC, Inc.

Delaware 

FFL Services Corporation

New Jersey 

Fidelcor Business Credit Corporation

New York 

Finvercon USA, Inc.

Nevada 

First Associates Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

First Citizens SC Capital Trust II

Delaware 

First Clearing, LLC

Delaware 

First Commerce Bancshares, Inc.

Nebraska 

First Commonwealth Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

First Community Capital Corporation

Texas 

First Community Capital Corporation of Delaware, Inc.

Delaware 

First Community Capital Trust I

Delaware 

First Community Capital Trust II

Delaware 

First Community Capital Trust III

Delaware 

First Consumer Services, Inc.

New Jersey 

7 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

First Fidelity Urban Investment Corporation

New Jersey 

First Financial (CA) Statutory Trust I

Connecticut 

First International Advisors, LLC

Delaware 

First Mortgage Consultants, LLC

Delaware 

First National Properties, Inc.

South Carolina 

First Penco Realty, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

First Peninsula Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

First Place Financial Corporation

New Mexico 

First Rate Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

First Security Capital I

Delaware 

First State Service Corporation

North Carolina 

First Union Capital I

Delaware 

First Union Capital II

Delaware 

First Union Commercial Investments, LLC

Tennessee 

First Union Commercial Leasing Group, L.L.C.

North Carolina 

First Union Community Development Corporation

Virginia 

First Union Financial Investments, LLC

Tennessee 

First Union Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund I, LLC

Delaware 

First Union Holdings,LLC

Tennessee 

First Union I, Inc.

US-Virgin Islands 

First Union Institutional Capital I

Delaware 

First Union Institutional Capital II

Delaware 

First Union Insurance Group Trust I

Delaware 

First Union Rail Corporation

North Carolina 

First Union Title Corporation

Georgia 

Five Star Lending, LLC

Delaware 

Flagstone Apartment Property, LLC

Delaware 

Florida Home Finance Group, LLC

Delaware 

FNL Insurance Company

Vermont 

Foothill Capital Corporation

California 

Foothill Group, Inc., The

Delaware 

Foothill Group, LLC, The

Delaware 

Foothill Partners IV, L.P.

Delaware 

Forest Glen Ballroom, LLC

Wisconsin 

Forest Glen Main Master Tenant, LLC

Maryland 

Forum Capital Markets, LLC

Delaware 

Foundation Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

FPFC Management LLC

New Mexico 

FSD Master Tenant, LLC

North Carolina 

Fullerton Towers Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Fulton Homes Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

FUNC Holdings, Inc.

Florida 

G. C. Leasing, Inc.

Virginia 

8 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

G/WDC N Fairbanks, LLC

Delaware 

Gallatin Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Galliard Capital Management, Inc.

Minnesota 

Garden-Howe Urban Renewal Associates, L.P.

New Jersey 

GBB Capital II

Delaware 

GBB Capital III

Delaware 

GBB Capital IV

Delaware 

GBB Capital VI

Delaware 

GBB Capital VIII

Delaware 

General Homes Corp.

Texas 

Genesis Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Gibraltar Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

Gibraltar Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Global Flying Insurance Services Limited

UK-England 

Golden Capital Management, LLC

Delaware 

Golden Funding Company

Cayman Islands 

Golden Pacific Insurance Company

Vermont 

Golden West Financial Corporation

North Carolina 

Golden West Savings Association Service Co.

California 

Goldenrod Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Great East Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Great Plains Insurance Company

Vermont 

Greater Atlanta Financial Services, LLC

Delaware 

Greater Bay Bancorp

California 

Greenfield Funding, LLC

Minnesota 

Greenridge Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

Greensboro-Richmond Properties, LLC

Delaware 

GS Bridgeport I CDE, LLC

Delaware 

GS Capital Funding (Cayman) Limited

UK-Cayman Islands 

GS Capital Funding (UK) II Limited

UK-England 

GS Capital Funding, Inc.

Delaware 

GS Private Equity Partners IX ASW Fund, LLC

Delaware 

GST Co.

Delaware 

Guarantee Pacific Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Gunther HQ Federal LLC

Maryland 

GWFC, LP

Delaware 

H. Bernstein Insurance Brokers Limited

United Kingdom-England 

H.D. Vest Advisory Services, Inc.

Texas 

H.D. Vest Insurance Agency, L.L.C.

Texas 

H.D. Vest Insurance Agency, L.L.C.

Montana 

H.D. Vest Insurance Agency, L.L.C.

Massachusetts 

H.D. Vest Investment Securities, Inc.

Texas 

H.D. Vest, Inc.

Texas 

9 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

HADBO Investments C.V.

Netherlands 

Hallmark Mortgage Group, LLC

Delaware 

Hanover/FUDC Master Limited Partnership

Delaware 

Hansen and Horn Financial, LLC

Delaware 

Harrier Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Haskell Limited Partnership

Massachusetts 

Havanese Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Headhouse Retail Associates, L.P.

Pennsylvania 

Heartland Security Lending, LLC

Delaware 

Hendricks Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Heritage Home Mortgage Group, LLC

Delaware 

Heritage Indemnity Company

California 

Heritage Mechanical Breakdown Corporation

Delaware 

Hewitt Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

Highland Glen, LLC

Delaware 

Hillsborough Lending, LLC

Delaware 

Historic West Elementary, LLC

Wisconsin 

HNB Auto Exchange, LLC

Delaware 

Hokkaido Apartments LLC

Delaware 

Home Loan Experts, Inc.

California 

Home Mortgage Specialists, LLC

Delaware 

Home Services Title Reinsurance Company

Vermont 

HomeLife Financial, LLC

Delaware 

Homeservices Lending, LLC

Delaware 

Horizon Management Services, Inc.

Florida 

HREG Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

HSM/WDC Kansas City Portfolio, LLC

Delaware 

HSM/WDC Pinetree, LLC

Delaware 

HSM/WDC Regency, LLC

Delaware 

HSM/WDC Westbrooke I, LLC

Delaware 

HSM/WDC Westbrooke II, LLC

Delaware 

HS-ORLANDO FL, LLC

Delaware 

Hub Building Limited Partnership

Illlinois 

Iapetus Funding, LLC

Delaware 

IBID, Inc.

Delaware 

Iilustrated Properties Mortgage Company, LLC

Delaware 

IJL 2004, LLC

North Carolina 

Integrated Capital Group, Inc.

California 

Integrity Home Funding, LLC

Delaware 

InterWest Capital Trust I

Delaware 

IntraWest Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Ironbrand Capital LLC

North Carolina 

Island Finance Credit Services, Inc.

New York 

10 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Island Finance Holding Company, LLC

Cayman Islands 

Island Finance New York, Inc.

New York 

Island Finance Puerto Rico, Inc.

Delaware 

Island Finance Sales Finance Corporation

Cayman Islands 

Island Finance Sales Finance Trust

Puerto Rico 

IWIC Insurance Company

Vermont 

J. L. Kaplan Associates, LLC

Delaware 

JC-Warren MI, LLC

Delaware 

JERSEY CENTER/FIDOREO, INC.

New Jersey 

John Laing Mortgage, LP

California 

Johnston Mill Master Tenant, LP

Georgia 

Jones   Minear Financial Services, LLC

Delaware 

Jordan Investments GP

UK-Cayman Islands 

Jordan Investments LP

UK-Cayman Islands 

JPSD, Inc.

Delaware 

Kardon/Atlantic Associates, L.P.

Pennsylvania 

Keller Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

KH Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Kidron Partners IV, LP

Minnesota 

King Walton Way Apartments, LLC

Delaware 

Knoxville Apartment Portfolio, LLC

Delaware 

Knoxville-ASH, LLC

North Carolina 

Knoxville-Courtyards, LLC

North Carolina 

Knoxville-Eagle Pointe, LLC

North Carolina 

Knoxville-Forest Ridge I, LLC

North Carolina 

Knoxville-Forest Ridge II, LLC

North Carolina 

Knoxville-Forest Ridge III, LLC

North Carolina 

Knoxville-Smoky Crossing I, LLC

North Carolina 

Knoxville-Smoky Crossing II, LLC

North Carolina 

Knoxville-Surplus, LLC

North Carolina 

KW 300 California Manager, LLC

North Carolina 

KW Investment Co., Ltd.

Japan 

KW La Serena 187 LLC

California 

KW Residential, LLC

Delaware 

KW/WDC Apartment Portfolio, LLC

Delaware 

KW/WDC Beaverton, LLC

Delaware 

KW/WDC La Mesa, LLC

Delaware 

KW/WDC Norwalk, LLC

Delaware 

KW/WDC Oxnard, LLC

Delaware 

KW/WDC Sacramento LLC

Delaware 

KW/WDC Vallejo LLC

Delaware 

KW/WDC Vista, LLC

Delaware 

KW/WDC Westmoreland, LLC

Delaware 

11 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

KWI America Multifamily, LLC

Delaware 

La Perla Sunny Isles, L.L.C.

Florida 

Lake Spivey Senior Living/WDC, LLC

Delaware 

Lake Street Lofts, L.L.C.

Illlinois 

Lamont SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Land Partners Two, LLC

Delaware 

Landfill Portfolio, LLC

Delaware 

Landmark Equity Partners XIV ASW Fund, LLC

Delaware 

Legacy Glenn Partnership, LLC

Georgia 

Legacy Mortgage

Delaware 

Lehman Crossroads XVIII ASW Fund, LLC

Delaware 

LG-354 Lewisville TX, LLC

Delaware 

Lincoln Building Corporation

Colorado 

Linear Financial, LP

Delaware 

Lordship, LLC

Delaware 

Lowry Hill Investment Advisors, Inc.

Minnesota 

Lucini/Parish Insurance, Inc.

Nevada 

LYNX 2002-I, Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

Mackerel Lane Carolina Beach, LLC

Delaware 

Macro*World Research Corporation

North Carolina 

Macro*World Research Philippines Inc.

Philippines 

Maggie L. Walker Governor s School Tenant, L.P.

Virginia 

Marben Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Marigold Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Marigold International Limited

Cayman Islands 

Market Villas SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Martha Turner Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Maryland Housing Equity Fund III Limited Partnership

Maryland 

Mastiff Funding, LP

Delaware 

Matthew International Sales, Inc.

US-Virgin Islands 

Max Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

MC of America, LLC

Delaware 

McCart Landing Conyers, LLC

Delaware 

McClellan Greensboro, LLC

Delaware 

McMillin Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

MDR Partners, LLC

Delaware 

Meadowmont JV, LLC

Delaware 

Melbourne Atlantic Joint Venture

Florida 

Mercy Housing Georgia I, L.L.L.P.

Georgia 

Meridian Mortgage Corporation

Pennsylvania 

Meridian Venture Partners

Pennsylvania 

Metropolitan West Capital Management, LLC

California 

Metropolitan West Securities, LLC

California 

12 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

MidCity Community CDE-Operating Fund, LLC

Delaware 

Mid-Peninsula Capital, LLC

California 

Milford Highlands PA, LLC

Delaware 

MMF Charlotte Partners, LLC

Delaware 

Montana Apartments Pheonix, LLC

Delaware 

Monument Peak, LLC

Delaware 

Monument Street Funding, Inc.

California 

Monument Street Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Monument Street Funding-II, LLC

Delaware 

Monument Street Holding LLC

Delaware 

Monument Street International Funding-I, LLC

Delaware 

Monument Street International Funding-II, LLC

Delaware 

Mortgage 100, LLC

Delaware 

Mortgage One

Not Required 

Mortgages On-Site, LLC

Delaware 

Mortgages Unlimited, LLC

Delaware 

Mountain Ventures Treviso Bay, LLC

Delaware 

Mountain Ventures WWG II, LLC

Delaware 

Mountain Ventures WWG III, LLC

Delaware 

Mountain Ventures WWG IV, LLC

Delaware 

Mountain Ventures WWG VI, LLC

Delaware 

Mountain Ventures WWG VII, LLC

Delaware 

Mountain Ventures WWG, LLC

Delaware 

MSC Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Mt. Vernon Middle Tier, LLC

Delaware 

Mulberry Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Mulberry SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Mutual Service Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

MVP Distribution Partners

Pennsylvania 

MWI-2002, LLC

Delaware 

NCT Exchange, LLC

Delaware 

NDC Financial Services, LLC

Delaware 

NEC IX, LLC

Delaware 

NEC VIII, LLC

Delaware 

Nero Limited, LLC

Delaware 

New Markets Investment XIII, LLC

Delaware 

NFPS, Inc.

Delaware 

Nolde Bakery SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

North Hart Run, Inc.

Virginia 

North Star Mortgage Guaranty Reinsurance Company

Vermont 

Northbrooke Woodstock, LLC

Delaware 

Northern Prairie Indemnity Limited

Cayman Islands 

Norwest Alliance System, Inc.

Minnesota 

13 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Norwest Equity Capital, L.L.C.

Minnesota 

Norwest Equity Partners IX, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Equity Partners V, a Minnesota Limited Partnership

Minnesota 

Norwest Equity Partners VI, LP

Minnesota 

Norwest Equity Partners VII, LP

Minnesota 

Norwest Equity Partners VIII, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Financial Canada DE, Inc.

Delaware 

Norwest Financial Funding, Inc.

Nevada 

Norwest Financial Investment 1, Inc.

Nevada 

Norwest Financial Investment, Inc.

Nevada 

Norwest Financial Massachusetts

Massachusetts 

Norwest Limited LP, LLLP

Delaware 

Norwest Mezzanine Partners I, LP

Minnesota 

Norwest Mezzanine Partners II, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Mezzanine Partners III, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Properties Holding Company

Minnesota 

Norwest Venture Capital Management, Inc.

Minnesota 

Norwest Venture Partners Advisory-Mauritius

Mauritius 

Norwest Venture Partners FVCI-Mauritius

Mauritius 

Norwest Venture Partners IX, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Venture Partners VI, LP

Minnesota 

Norwest Venture Partners VI-A, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Venture Partners VII, LP

Minnesota 

Norwest Venture Partners VII-A, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Venture Partners VIII, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Venture Partners X -Mauritius

Mauritius 

Norwest Venture Partners X, LP

Delaware 

NVP Associates, LLC

Delaware 

NVP Venture Capital India Private Limited

India 

Oak Haven Senior Living, LLC

Delaware 

Ocean View Holdco, LLC

Delaware 

Oilwell Supply, L.P.

Texas 

Old Swedish Bank Master Tenant, LLC

Minnesota 

OmniPlus Capital Corporation

Tennessee 

OmniServe of Alabama, L.L.C.

Alabama 

Oosterpark, LLC

Delaware 

OPC Hampton SCP, LP

Virginia 

OPC Hampton Tenant, L.P.

Virginia 

OPC Hampton, LLC

Virginia 

O Sullivan and Associates Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Oxmoor Center, LLC

Delaware 

P   C Select, LLC

Georgia 

Pacific Lifestyle Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

14 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Pacific Northwest Bancorp

Washington 

Pacific Northwest Statutory Trust I

Connecticut 

Palmer   Cay Investment Services, Inc.

Georgia 

Palmer   Cay Real Estate, Inc.

Georgia 

Palmer   Cay Securities Corporation

Georgia 

Palo Alto Partners, LLC

Delaware 

Parachute Factory SCP, LLC

Virginia 

Parachute Factory Tenant, LLC

Virginia 

Paramount Theater SCP L.P.

Virginia 

Paramount Theater Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

Parkland Senior Housing, LP

Missouri 

Peachtree Residential Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Pelican Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Peony Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Peregrine Capital Management, Inc.

Minnesota 

Perfect Eagle Group Limited

UK-Virgin Islands 

Personal Mortgage Group, LLC

Delaware 

Pheasant Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

PHH Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Philadelphia International Equities, Inc.

Delaware 

Philadelphia National Limited

UK-England 

PHMCWF, LLC

Delaware 

Phoenix Metro Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Pinnacle Mortgage of Nevada, LLC

Delaware 

PINTA, LLC

Delaware 

Placer Sierra Bancshares

California 

Placer Statutory Trust III

Delaware 

Placer Statutory Trust IV

Delaware 

Platinum Residential Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

PNC Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Pohlig SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Premia Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Premium Timberland Sales, Inc.

North Carolina 

Prime Direct LLC

Delaware 

Prime Era Investments Limited

UK-Virgin Islands 

Primrose Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Princeton Reconveyance Services Inc.

California 

Priority Mortgage Company, LLC

Delaware 

Private Mortgage Advisors, LLC

Delaware 

PRN Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Professional Direct Agency, Inc.

Ohio 

Professional Financial Services of Arizona, LLC

Delaware 

Prometheus Investment, LLC

North Carolina 

15 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

PSH State Investor, LLC

Delaware 

PTO Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Pumi Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Pursuit of Joy, LLC

Delaware 

Quail Asset Management, LLC

Delaware 

Questpoint L.P., Inc.

Delaware 

R.B.C. Corporation

North Carolina 

RA Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Railcar Investment, LLC

Delaware 

Railroad Y L.P.

Virginia 

Railway Tenant, LLC

Maryland 

Rainier Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Real Estate Consultants of the South, Inc.

North Carolina 

Real Estate Lenders

Not Required 

Real Living Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Real Sincere Group Limited

UK-Virgin Islands 

Realty Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Atlanta Club Homes, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Atlanta Subdivisions, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Houston, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Properties, Inc.

Delaware 

REDUS SC Coastal, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS TX Homes, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS TX Properties, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Virginia Subdivisions, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Westwood, LLC

Delaware 

Regency Insurance Agency, Inc.

Minnesota 

Reliable Finance Holding Company

Puerto Rico 

Reliable Finance Holding Company, LLC

Nevada 

Reliable Financial Services, Inc.

Puerto Rico 

Reliable Insurance Services Corp.

Puerto Rico 

Renaissance Finance II, LLC

Delaware 

Renaissance West Partners, LLC

Delaware 

Residential Asset Funding Corporation

North Carolina 

Residential Community Mortgage Company, LLC

Delaware 

Residential Home Division, LLC

Delaware 

Residential Home Mortgage Investment, L.L.C.

Delaware 

Residential Mortgage Division, LLC

Delaware 

Residential Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

Rigil Funding, LLC

Delaware 

RIJK, LLC

Delaware 

Riverside Home Loans, LLC

Delaware 

Roanoke TS SCP, LP

Virginia 

16 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Roanoke TS Tenant, LP

Virginia 

Rocketts View L.P.

Virginia 

Rocky River Project LLC

Delaware 

Rohm   Haas Co.

Pennsylvania 

Royalton Apartments, Ltd.

Florida 

Ruby Asset Management Inc.

Maryland 

Rural Community Insurance Agency, Inc.

Minnesota 

Rural Community Insurance Company

Minnesota 

Russ Lyon Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

RWF Mortgage Company

California 

RWF Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

RYACCOM Real Estate, LLC

Delaware 

Ryaccom, LLC

Delaware 

Ryder Exchange, LLC

Delaware 

Sagebrush Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Saguaro Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Salvo Finance GP

Delaware 

Santa Fe Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Sapphire Asset Management Inc.

Maryland 

Savings Associations Financial Enterprises, Incorporated (S.A.F.E., Inc.)

District of Columbia 

SC Realty, LLC

Delaware 

SCG Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Scott Life Insurance Company

Arizona 

Security First Financial Group, LLC

Delaware 

Select Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Select Lending Services, LLC

Delaware 

SelectNet Plus, Inc.

West Virginia 

Seventeenth Street Lofts SCP L.P.

Virginia 

Seventeenth Street Lofts Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

SG Group Holdings LLC

Delaware 

SG New York LLC

Delaware 

SG Pennsylvania LLC

Delaware 

SG Tucson LLC

Delaware 

Shenandoah Hotel Associates L.P.

Virginia 

SHHO, L.P.

Virginia 

Shockoe-Cary Building Tenant, L.P.

Virginia 

Sierra Delaware Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Sierra Peaks Funding, LP

Delaware 

Signature Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Signet Student Loan Corporation

Virginia 

Siguler Guff BRIC Opportunities II ASW Fund, LLC

Delaware 

Silver Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Sirius Funding, LLC

Delaware 

17 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Site 15 Affordable Associates, LLC

New York 

SK 55 Wall LLC

New York 

Skogman Mortgage Company

Not Required 

Skyline Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Smart Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

SoCo Community Development Company, LLC

Alabama 

Solution Delivery, LLC

Delaware 

Source One Liquidation, LLC

Delaware 

South Beach Courtyard Development, Ltd.

Florida 

South Street Lofts SCP L.P.

Virginia 

South Street Lofts Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

Southeast Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Southeast Minnesota Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Southern Ohio Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

SouthSide Plaza 455 Ltd., L.L.P.

Texas 

SouthTrust Capital Funding Corporation

Delaware 

SouthTrust Community Reinvestment Company, LLC

Alabama 

SouthTrust Development Corporation

Georgia 

SouthTrust Mobile Services Funding Corporation

Alabama 

SouthTrust Mortgage Corporation

Delaware 

Southwest Community Statutory Trust I

Connecticut 

Southwest Partners, Inc.

California 

Sparta GP Holding REO Corp.

Delaware 

Sparta GP Holding, LLC

Delaware 

SPFE, Inc.

North Carolina 

SPH Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Spring Cypress Water Supply Corporation

Texas 

SS Bolingbrook Boughton, LLC

Delaware 

SS Columbus Chestnut, LLC

Delaware 

SS Columbus Georgesville, LLC

Delaware 

SS Columbus Morse, LLC

Delaware 

SS Columbus Roberts, LLC

Delaware 

SS Columbus South High, LLC

Delaware 

SS Exeter RI, LLC

Delaware 

SS Johnston Putnam, LLC

Delaware 

SS LaGrange, LLC

Delaware 

SS Lewis Enterprise, LLC

Delaware 

SS Lincoln Park Western, LLC

Delaware 

SS New Smyrna, LLC

Delaware 

SS Patchoque Waverly, LLC

Delaware 

SS Sanford 46, LLC

Delaware 

SS South Loop, LLC

Delaware 

SS Vegas East Horizon, LLC

Delaware 

18 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

SS Wakefield Church, LLC

Delaware 

SS Winter Park, LLC

Delaware 

SS Woonsocket Diamond, LLC

Delaware 

St. Joseph s Affordable Housing Limited Partnership

Pennsylvania 

Stagecoach Insurance Agency, Inc.

California 

Stagecoach Insurance Services, LLC

Delaware 

Stirling Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

Stock Financial Services, LLC

Delaware 

STRATS, LLC

Delaware 

Strouse Adler Associates, Limited Partnership

Connecticut 

Structured Asset Investors, LLC

Delaware 

Structured Credit Partners, LLC

Delaware 

Structured Principal Strategies Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Structured Principal Strategies, LLC

Delaware 

Suffolk Center for Cultural Arts SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Sullivan Investments, Inc.

Delaware 

Summit National Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Superior Guaranty Insurance Company

Vermont 

Superior Warehouse Apartment SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Superior Warehouse Apartments Tenant, L. P.

Virginia 

SURREY DOWNS/FIDOREO, INC.

New Jersey 

Sweetroot Funding, LLC

Cayman Islands 

Synthetic Fixed-Income Securities, Inc.

Delaware 

Tai Mo Shan Investments Partnership

Hong Kong 

TAI Title Trust

Delaware 

Tattersall Advisory Group, Inc.

Virginia 

TAYLORR LAKES/FIDOREO, INC.

New Jersey 

TCF A/GA-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF A/NC-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF A/V-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF AEG/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF AM/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF AM/F-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF AM/F-4A, LLC

Delaware 

TCF AM/F-4B, LLC

Delaware 

TCF BA/F-G, LLC

Delaware 

TCF BO/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF BOH/H-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF BOH/H-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF C/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF C/F-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF CN/VA-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF CN/VA-2, LLC

Delaware 

19 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

TCF CN/VA-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF CON/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF GW/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF GW/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF GW-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF HH/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF JH/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF JP/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF JP/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF JPM/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF M/F-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF NA/VA-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF NA/VA-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF NA/VA-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF P/GA-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF P/MO-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF P/VA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF S/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/GA-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/GA-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/MO, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/VA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/VA-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/VA-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF UB-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF USB/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF WF-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF WF-4, LLC

Delaware 

TCF WF-5, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund I, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund II, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund III, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund IV, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund V, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund VI, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund VII, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Historic Tax Credit Fund I, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG NC State Credit Fund, LLC

North Carolina 

TCIG Tax Credit Fund I, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Tax Credit Fund II, LLC

Delaware 

Telomian Funding, Inc.

Delaware 

The Ceres Investment Company

Missouri 

The Exchange Building Limited Partnership

Maine 

20 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

The Fairfax Corporation

North Carolina 

The Florida Community New Markets Fund II, LLC

Florida 

The Lofts San Marco Tenant, LLC

Florida 

The Money Store, LLC

New Jersey 

The Money Store/Service Corp.

New Jersey 

The Ratcliffe, LLC

North Carolina 

The Thirty-Eight Hundred Fund, LLC

Delaware 

The Trumbull Group, LLC

Delaware 

The Westlake Group, Limited

British West Indies 

Therapy Insurance Services Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Thirty-Eight Hundred Investments Limited

Cayman Islands 

THM Master TE, LLC

Minnesota 

Thoroughbred Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Tiberius Ventures, L.L.C.

Nevada 

Timmitch, LLC

Delaware 

TMS Funding Limited

Cayman Islands 

TMS Special Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

TMS Student Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Todd Tenant, L. P.

Virginia 

Topaz Asset Management Inc.

Maryland 

TQI Exchange, LLC

Delaware 

Trademark Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Transportation Equipment Advisors, Inc.

Illinois 

Treviso Bay Development, LLC

Delaware 

Triad Apartment Portfolio II, LLC

Delaware 

Triad Apartment Portfolio, LLC

Delaware 

Triblle Lakes Cumming, LLC

Delaware 

Tribune Tower Investors, L.P.

California 

TRM of North Carolina, LLC

North Carolina 

TRSTE II, Inc.

Tennessee 

TRSTE, Inc.

Virginia 

Tryon Management, Inc.

North Carolina 

Two APM Plaza, Inc. (89%)

Pennsylvania 

Tyree Financing, S.A. (Luxembourg, Luxembourg)

Luxembourg 

Tyro Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Union Commerce Title Company, LLC

Delaware 

Union Hamilton Reinsurance, Ltd.

Bermuda 

Union Hamilton Special Purpose Funding 2005-1, LLC

Delaware 

Union Hamilton Special Purpose Funding 2005-2, LLC

Delaware 

Union Hamilton Special Purpose Funding 2006-1, LLC

Delaware 

Union Station Holding Company LLC

Delaware 

United Bancorporation of Wyoming Capital Trust I

Delaware 

United Bancorporation of Wyoming Capital Trust II

Delaware 

21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

United Bancorporation of Wyoming Capital Trust III

Delaware 

United Bancshares, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

United Bank of Philadelphia

Pennsylvania 

United California Bank Realty Corporation

California 

Universal Master Servicing, LLC

Delaware 

Valley Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Valuedrive Investments Limited

UK-Virgin Islands 

VCP-Carlington, LLC.

Florida 

Vento WF LLC

Delaware 

Vermillion Huntersville, LLC

Delaware 

Victoria Investments, LLC

Delaware 

Village Communities Financial, LLC

Delaware 

Villages at Warner Ranch PUD, LP

Delaware 

Violet Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Virginia Street SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Vista Lofts Denver, LLC

Delaware 

Vista Realty Portfolio Investments LLC

Delaware 

Vondelpark, LLC

Delaware 

W/A Tax Credit Fund 2003-I, LLC

Delaware 

Wachau Insurance Advisors, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia 300 California Member, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Administrative Services, Inc.

Florida 

Wachovia Advisors International Limited

Hong Kong 

Wachovia Affordable Housing Community Development Corporation

North Carolina 

Wachovia Affordable Housing Corp.

North Carolina 

Wachovia Alternative Strategies Managed Futures   Commodities Platform, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Alternative Strategies Offshore Platform, SPC

UK-Cayman Islands 

Wachovia Alternative Strategies Platform, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Alternative Strategies Real Estate Platform, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Alternative Strategies, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia Asia Holding Corporation

Alabama 

Wachovia Asia Investments Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Wachovia Asia Limited

Hong Kong 

Wachovia Auto Loan Owner Trust 2007-1

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Loan Owner Trust 2007-2

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Loan Owner Trust 2007-3

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Loan Owner Trust 2008-1

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Owner Trust 2004-A

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Owner Trust 2004-B

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Owner Trust 2005-A

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Owner Trust 2005-B

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Owner Trust 2006-A

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Owner Trust 2007-B

Delaware 

22 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wachovia Auto Owner Trust 2008-A

Delaware 

Wachovia Bank and Trust Company (Cayman) Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

Wachovia Bank International

Ireland 

Wachovia Bank of Delaware, National Association

United States 

Wachovia Bank, FSB

Texas 

Wachovia Bank, National Association

United States 

Wachovia Capital Finance Corporation (Canada)

Canada-Ontario 

Wachovia Capital Finance Corporation (Central)

Illinois 

Wachovia Capital Finance Corporation (New England)

Massachusetts 

Wachovia Capital Finance Corporation (Western)

California 

Wachovia Capital Investments, Inc.

Georgia 

Wachovia Capital Investors, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Partners 1997, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 1998, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 1998-II, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 1999, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 1999-II, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2000, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2001, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2002, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2003, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2004, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2005, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners II ASW Fund, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Partners Management Company, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Partners Secondary Fund I, L.P.

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Partners, Inc.

Virginia 

Wachovia Capital Trust I

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust II

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust III

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust IV

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust IX

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust V

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust X

Delaware 

Wachovia Card Receivables, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Card Services, National Association

United States 

Wachovia Caveness Member, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Century Mill Member, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Commercial Mortgage Inc.

New Jersey 

Wachovia Commercial Mortgage Loan Warehouse Corporation

North Carolina 

Wachovia Commercial Mortgage Securities, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia Commodities Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

23 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wachovia Commodities, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Community Development Corporation

North Carolina 

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises I, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises II, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises V, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1 Investor, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1, Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

Wachovia Dealer Services, Inc.

California 

Wachovia Defeasance 3409 PRIMM III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Alta Mira Shopping Center LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2000-2 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2001-1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2001-PB1 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2001-PB1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2002-2 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2003-1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BOA-FUNB 2001-3 CAC VCRIT Portfolio LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BOA-FUNB 2001-3 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BOA-FUNB 2001-3 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 1999-C1 II LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 1999-C1 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 1999-C1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 1999-WF2 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 1999-WF2 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2000-WF1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2000-WF2 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2001-TOP2 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2002-PBW1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2002-TOP6 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2003-TOP10 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2003-Top10 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2003-Top12 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2004-PWR3 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2004-TOP16 525 Vine Street LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2004-TOP16 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2005-TOP18 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Chase 1997-2 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Chase 1999-2 II LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance CHASE 1999-2 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Chase 1999-2 LLC

Delaware 

24 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

25 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

26 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

27 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

28 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

29 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

30 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

31 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

32 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C22 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2006-C23 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2006-C25 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Development Corporation

North Carolina 

Wachovia Directors (Cayman) Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

Wachovia Education Finance Inc.

Delaware 

Wachovia Education Loan Funding LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Encryption Technologies, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Equity Servicing, LLC

New Jersey 

Wachovia Exchange Services, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia Exchange Services, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Finance Ireland Limited

Ireland 

Wachovia Financial Services, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia Fixed Income Structured Trading Solutions, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia FSD SCP, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Guaranteed Middle Tier III-A/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Middle Tier III-ANC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Middle Tier IV-P/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Middle Tier IV-U/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund II, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund III-A/GA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund III-A/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund III-CN/GA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund IV-P/GA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund IV-P/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund IV-U/GA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund IV-U/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund V-F/M, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund V-VA/M, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit FundC/GA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit FundWF/CA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit FundWF/CA-2, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia High Yield Investments Corporation

Delaware 

Wachovia Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Wachovia Insurance Agency, Inc.

Virginia 

Wachovia Insurance Services Broker Dealer, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia Insurance Services, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia International B.V.

Netherlands 

Wachovia International Banking Corporation

United States 

Wachovia International Capital Corporation

Georgia 

Wachovia International Services Private Limited

India 

Wachovia International Servicos, LTDA

Brazil 

Wachovia Investment Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

33 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wachovia Investors, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia KW1, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia KW2, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Large Loan, Inc.

Delaware 

Wachovia Life Insurance Company

Arizona 

Wachovia Management Corporation

California 

Wachovia Management Services Private Limited

India 

Wachovia Mortgage Corporation

North Carolina 

Wachovia Mortgage Loan Trust, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Mortgage, FSB

New Jersey 

Wachovia Multifamily Capital, Inc.

Delaware 

Wachovia Netherlands B.V.

Netherlands 

Wachovia Netherlands Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Wachovia Ocean View Member, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Operational Services, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia PASS Co., LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Preferred Funding Corp.

Delaware 

Wachovia Preferred Funding Holding Corp.

California 

Wachovia Preferred Realty, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Premium Finance, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia Private Capital, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wachovia Proprietary Equity Trading, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia RE, Inc.

South Carolina 

Wachovia Real Estate Investment Corp.

Delaware 

Wachovia Real Estate Korea, Inc.

Korea 

Wachovia Regional Community Development Corporation, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wachovia Risk Services, Inc.

Virginia 

Wachovia SBA Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Wachovia SBA Lending, Inc.

New Jersey 

Wachovia
Securities (Cayman) Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

Wachovia Securities (Argentina) LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Securities (Chile) LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Securities (Japan) Co. Ltd.

Japan 

Wachovia Securities (Montevideo) Usuaria de Zona Franca S.A.

Uruguay 

Wachovia Securities (Uruguay) S.A.

Uruguay 

Wachovia Securities Asia Limited

Hong Kong 

Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Securities Financial Network, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Securities Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Securities Insurance Agency of Puerto Rico, Inc.

Puerto Rico 

Wachovia Securities International Limited

UK-England 

Wachovia Securities Servicos e Participacoes (Brasil) LTDA

Brazil 

Wachovia Securities, LLC

Delaware 

34 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wachovia Service Corporation

Delaware 

Wachovia Settlement Services of AL, LLC

Alabama 

Wachovia Settlement Services, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Shared Resources, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Structured Finance Management, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia Student Loan Trust 2005-1

Delaware 

Wachovia Student Loan Trust 2006-1

Delaware 

Wachovia Technology Planning   Solutions Private Limited

India 

Wachovia Trade Finance Corporation

Delaware 

Wachovia Trust Company of California

California 

Wachovia Trust Services, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia Warranty Corporation

Delaware 

Wachovia/Maher Partners

Delaware 

Wapiti Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Warder Mansion, L. P.

Virginia 

Waterside Villages, LLC

Delaware 

Wauregan Development LLC

Connecticut 

WB Loan Funding 1, LLC

Delaware 

WB Loan Funding 10, LLC

Delaware 

WB Loan Funding 14, LLC

Delaware 

WB Loan Funding 15, LLC

Delaware 

WB Loan Funding 16, LLC

Delaware 

WB Loan Funding 17, LLC

Delaware 

WB Loan Funding 18, LLC

Delaware 

WB Loan Funding 2, LLC

Delaware 

WB Loan Funding 3, LLC

Delaware 

WB Loan Funding 5, LLC

Delaware 

WB Loan Funding 6 (ONSHORE), LLC

Delaware 

WB Loan Funding 7 (OFFSHORE), LLC

Delaware 

WB Loan Funding 8, LLC

Delaware 

WB Loan Funding 9, LLC

Delaware 

WB Re Ltd. (North Charleston, SC)

South Carolina 

WBI Holdings I, LLC

Delaware 

WBI Holdings II, LLC

Delaware 

WBI Holdings III, LLC

Delaware 

WBI Holdings IV, LLC

Delaware 

WBI Holdings V, LLC

Delaware 

WBI Holdings VI, LLC

Delaware 

WCP Compression Holdings, LLC

North Carolina 

WCP Compression, LLC

North Carolina 

WCP Fund I, L.P.

Delaware 

WCP Fund II, L.P.

Delaware 

WCP Holdings 2002, LLC

North Carolina 

35 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

WCP Holdings 2004, LLC

North Carolina 

WCP Holdings 2005, LLC

North Carolina 

WCP Holdings 2006, LLC

North Carolina 

WCP Secondary Fund I GP, LLC

Delaware 

WDC 541 N Fairbanks Member, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Fairways Mezzanine Lender LLC

Delaware 

WDC KW America Member, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Lake Spivey Member, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Member KW Portfolio, LLC

Delaware 

WDC MMF Charlotte Partners Member, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Triad Member I, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Triad Member II, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Triad Parent, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Union Station, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Ventures Ltd.

Mauritius 

WDC Windward Campus, LLC

Delaware 

WDC/Babcock Fairways, LLC

Delaware 

WDS Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

WDSI, LLC

Delaware 

WELF Holding LLC

Delaware 

Wells Capital Management Incorporated

California 

Wells Fargo Alaska Trust Company, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo Alternative Asset Management, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Asia Limited

Hong Kong 

Wells Fargo Asset Management Corporation

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Asset Securities Corporation

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Auto Finance, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo Bank Grand Junction, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo Bank Grand Junction-Downtown, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo Bank International

United States 

Wells Fargo Bank Northwest, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo Bank South Central, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo Bank, Ltd.

California 

Wells Fargo Bank, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo Bill Presentment Venture Member, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Business Credit Canada ULC

Canada 

Wells Fargo Capital A

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital B

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital C

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital I

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital II

Delaware 

36 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wells Fargo Capital IV

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital IX

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital VII

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital VIII

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital X

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital XI

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital XII

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital XIII

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital XIV

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital XV

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Cash Centers, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Cedar Creek, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Central Bank

California 

Wells Fargo Central Pacific Holdings, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo CM Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Community Development Corporation

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Credit Card Funding LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Credit Card Master Note Trust

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Credit, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Delaware Trust Company

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Distribution Finance, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Energy Capital, Inc.

Texas 

Wells Fargo Equipment Finance Company

Canada 

Wells Fargo Equipment Finance, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Equity Capital, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo Escrow Company, LLC

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Acceptance America, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wells Fargo Financial Acceptance, LLC

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Financial Agency, Co.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Alabama, Inc.

Alabama 

Wells Fargo Financial Alaska, Inc.

Alaska 

Wells Fargo Financial America, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wells Fargo Financial Arizona, Inc.

Arizona 

Wells Fargo Financial Arkansas, Inc.

Arkansas 

Wells Fargo Financial Auto Owner Trust 2005-A

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Bank

South Dakota 

Wells Fargo Financial California, Inc.

Colorado 

Wells Fargo Financial Canada Corporation

Canada 

Wells Fargo Financial Colorado, Inc.

Colorado 

Wells Fargo Financial Connecticut, Inc.

Connecticut 

Wells Fargo Financial Corporation Canada

Canada 

Wells Fargo Financial Credit Services New York, Inc.

New York 

37 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wells Fargo Financial Delaware, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Florida, Inc.

Florida 

Wells Fargo Financial Funding B.V.

Netherlands 

Wells Fargo Financial Georgia, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Guam, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Hawaii, Inc.

Hawaii 

Wells Fargo Financial Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Hong Kong Limited

Hong Kong 

Wells Fargo Financial Idaho, Inc.

Idaho 

Wells Fargo Financial Illinois, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Indiana, Inc.

Indiana 

Wells Fargo Financial Information Services, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Investments, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Financial Iowa 1, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Iowa 3, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Kansas, Inc.

Kansas 

Wells Fargo Financial Kentucky 1, Inc.

Kentucky 

Wells Fargo Financial Kentucky, Inc.

Kentucky 

Wells Fargo Financial Leasing, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Louisiana, Inc.

Louisiana 

Wells Fargo Financial Maine, Inc.

Maine 

Wells Fargo Financial Maryland, Inc.

Maryland 

Wells Fargo Financial Massachusetts 1, Inc.

Massachusetts 

Wells Fargo Financial Massachusetts, Inc.

Massachusetts 

Wells Fargo Financial Michigan, Inc.

Michigan 

Wells Fargo Financial Minnesota, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Financial Mississippi 2, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Mississippi, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Missouri, Inc.

Missouri 

Wells Fargo Financial Montana, Inc.

Montana 

Wells Fargo Financial National Bank

United States 

Wells Fargo Financial Nebraska, Inc.

Nebraska 

Wells Fargo Financial Nevada 1, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Financial Nevada 2, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Financial Nevada, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Financial New Hampshire 1, Inc.

New Hampshire 

Wells Fargo Financial New Hampshire, Inc.

New Hampshire 

Wells Fargo Financial New Jersey, Inc.

New Jersey 

Wells Fargo Financial New Mexico, Inc.

New Mexico 

Wells Fargo Financial New York, Inc.

New York 

Wells Fargo Financial North Carolina 1, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wells Fargo Financial North Carolina, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wells Fargo Financial North Dakota, Inc.

North Dakota 

38 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wells Fargo Financial Ohio 1, Inc.

New Hampshire 

Wells Fargo Financial Ohio, Inc.

Ohio 

Wells Fargo Financial Oklahoma, Inc.

Oklahoma 

Wells Fargo Financial Oregon, Inc.

Oregon 

Wells Fargo Financial Pennsylvania, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wells Fargo Financial Puerto Rico, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Receivables, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Resources, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Retail Credit, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Retail Services Company Canada

Canada 

Wells Fargo Financial Retail Services, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Rhode Island, Inc.

Rhode Island 

Wells Fargo Financial Saipan, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Security Services, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Services Virginia, Inc.

Virginia 

Wells Fargo Financial Services, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial South Carolina, Inc.

South Carolina 

Wells Fargo Financial South Dakota, Inc.

South Dakota 

Wells Fargo Financial System Florida, Inc.

Florida 

Wells Fargo Financial System Minnesota, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Financial System Virginia, Inc.

Virginia 

Wells Fargo Financial Tennessee 1, LLC

Tennessee 

Wells Fargo Financial Tennessee, Inc.

Tennessee 

Wells Fargo Financial Texas, Inc.

Texas 

Wells Fargo Financial Utah, Inc.

Utah 

Wells Fargo Financial Vermont, Inc.

Vermont 

Wells Fargo Financial Virginia, Inc.

Virginia 

Wells Fargo Financial Washington 1, Inc.

Washington 

Wells Fargo Financial Washington, Inc.

Washington 

Wells Fargo Financial West Virginia, Inc.

West Virginia 

Wells Fargo Financial Wisconsin, Inc.

Wisconsin 

Wells Fargo Financial Wyoming, Inc.

Wyoming 

Wells Fargo Financial, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financing Corporation

California 

Wells Fargo Foothill Canada ULC

Canada 

Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo Foothill, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Funding, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Funds Distributor, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Funds Management, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Global Broker Network, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Home Mortgage of Hawaii, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Housing Advisors, Inc.

California 

39 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo India Solutions Private Limited

India 

Wells Fargo Institutional Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Institutional Securities, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Insurance Agency of Michigan, Inc.

Michigan 

Wells Fargo Insurance Nevada, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services Mountain West, Inc.

Colorado 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services Northeast, Inc.

New Jersey 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services Northwest, Inc.

Washington 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Alabama, Inc.

Alabama 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Alaska, Inc.

Alaska 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Arizona, Inc.

Arizona 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Illinois, Inc.

Illinois 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Indiana, LLC

Indiana 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Kentucky, Inc.

Kentucky 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Minnesota, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Nevada, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of New York, Inc.

New York 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of North Carolina, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Ohio, LLC

Ohio 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Oregon, Inc.

Oregon 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Pennsylvania, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Tennessee, Inc.

Tennessee 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Texas, Inc.

Texas 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Virginia, Inc.

Virginia 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of West Virginia, Inc.

West Virginia 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services Southeast, Inc.

Florida 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Insurance Wyoming, Inc.

Wyoming 

Wells Fargo Insurance, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo International Commercial Services Limited

Hong Kong 

Wells Fargo Investment Group, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Investments, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Merchant Services, L.LC.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo of California Insurance Services, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo Preferred Capital, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Private Client Funding, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Private Investment Advisors, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Properties, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo RE, Inc.

New Jersey 

Wells Fargo Real Estate Capital Investments, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Real Estate Tax Services, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Retail Finance II, LLC

Delaware 

40 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wells Fargo Retail Finance, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Securities Limited

United Kingdom 

Wells Fargo Securities, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Securitisation Services Limited

United Kingdom 

Wells Fargo Servicing Solutions, LLC

Florida 

Wells Fargo Small Business Investment Company, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo Special Risks, Inc.

Illinois 

Wells Fargo Structured Lending, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Student Loans Receivables I, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Third Party Administrators, Inc.

West Virginia 

Wells Fargo Trade Capital Services, Inc.

New York 

Wells Fargo Trade Capital, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Ventures, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Wind Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo, Ltd.

Hawaii 

WES Holding Corporation

Delaware 

WestFin Insurance Agency, Inc.

California 

Westlake Insurance Company (Bermuda), Ltd.

Bermuda 

WEX Chestertown, LLC

Delaware 

WEX WWG IX, LLC

Delaware 

WEX WWG VIII, LLC

Delaware 

WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

WFC Holdings Corporation

Delaware 

WFI Insurance Agency Montana, Inc.

Montana 

WFI Insurance Agency Washington, Inc.

Washington 

WFLC Subsidiary, LLC

Delaware 

WFS Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

WFS Web Investments

California 

WG-4511 MI, LLC

Delaware 

WG-5278 MO, LLC

Delaware 

Wheat First Butcher Singer Private Equity Fund, Limited Partnership

Virginia 

Wheels Exchange, LLC

Delaware 

Whippet Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Whitney Hotel Limited Partnership

Louisiana 

WIBC Aruba N.V.

Aruba 

WIH CDO, LLC

Delaware 

WIH Holdings

Mauritius 

William Byrd Hotel Associates, L.P.

Virginia 

William Pitt Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Winchester REO, LLC

North Carolina 

Windward Campus Manager, LLC

Delaware 

Windward Campus Owner, LLC

Delaware 

Winmark Financial, LLC

Delaware 

41 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2008:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

WLC Company

Nevada 

WLH 2008-1, LLC

Delaware 

World Loan Company, LLC

Texas 

World Mortgage Company

Colorado 

World Mortgage Investors, Inc.

Maryland 

World Savings Insurance Agency, Inc.

California 

World Savings, Inc.

California 

WPFC Asset Funding LLC

Delaware 

WS Insurance Agency of Wyoming, LLC

Wyoming 

WS Insurance Services of Massachusetts, LLC

Massachusetts 

WS Insurance Services, LLC

Virginia 

WSH Holdings, Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

Yucca Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

42 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 10
 f51597exv23.htm
 EX-23

exv23 

Exhibit 23 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors 
Wells Fargo   Company:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements noted below on Forms
S-3, S-4 and S-8 of Wells Fargo   Company, of our reports dated February 23, 2009, with respect to
the consolidated balance sheet of Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008
and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders  equity and
comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December
31, 2008 and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2008, which reports appear in the December 31, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wells Fargo  
Company. Our report on the aforementioned consolidated financial statements refers to a change in
the method for evaluating other-than-temporary impairment on certain investment securities in 2008
and  a change in the method of accounting for   certain mortgages held for sale
 in 2007.

/s/ KPMG
LLP 
San Francisco, California 
February 27, 2009

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 11
 f51597exv24.htm
 EX-24

exv24 

Exhibit 24 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY

Power of Attorney of Director

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned director of WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a
Delaware corporation, does hereby make, constitute, and appoint NICHOLAS G. MOORE, a director and
Chairman of the Audit and Examination Committee of the Board of Directors, and CYNTHIA H. MILLIGAN,
a director and member of the Audit and Examination Committee of the Board of Directors, and each or
either of them, the undersigned s true and lawful attorneys-in-fact, with power of substitution,
for the undersigned and in the undersigned s name, place, and stead, to sign and affix the
undersigned s name as such director of said Company to an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2008, and all amendments thereto, to be filed by said Company with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C. under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and
the rules and regulations of said Commission, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and
other supporting documents, with said Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact, and each of
them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts necessary or incidental to the
performance and execution of the powers herein expressly granted.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this power of attorney this 24th day of
February, 2009.

/s/ JOHN D. BAKER II

/s/ CYNTHIA H. MILLIGAN 

/s/ JOHN S. CHEN

/s/ NICHOLAS G. MOORE 

/s/ LLOYD H. DEAN

/s/ PHILIP J. QUIGLEY 

/s/ SUSAN E. ENGEL

/s/ DONALD B. RICE 

/s/ ENRIQUE HERNANDEZ, JR.

/s/ JUDITH M. RUNSTAD 

/s/ DONALD M. JAMES

/s/ STEPHEN W. SANGER 

/s/ ROBERT L. JOSS

/s/ ROBERT K. STEEL 

/s/ RICHARD M. KOVACEVICH

/s/ JOHN G. STUMPF 

/s/ RICHARD D. McCORMICK

/s/ SUSAN G. SWENSON 

/s/ MACKEY J. McDONALD

/s/ MICHAEL W. WRIGHT 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.(A)>
 12
 f51597exv31wxay.htm
 EX-31.(A)

exv31wxay 

Exhibit 31(a) 

CERTIFICATION  

I, John G. Stumpf, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008,
of Wells Fargo   Company; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case
of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 27, 2009

/s/ JOHN G. STUMPF

John G. Stumpf 

President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.(A)>

<EX-31.(B)>
 13
 f51597exv31wxby.htm
 EX-31.(B)

exv31wxby 

Exhibit 31(b) 

CERTIFICATION  

I, Howard I. Atkins, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008,
of Wells Fargo   Company; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case
of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 27, 2009

/s/ HOWARD I. ATKINS

Howard I. Atkins 

Senior Executive Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.(B)>

<EX-32.(A)>
 14
 f51597exv32wxay.htm
 EX-32.(A)

exv32wxay 

Exhibit 32(a) 

Certification of Periodic Financial Report by 
Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
and 18 U.S.C.   1350 

I, John G. Stumpf, President and Chief Executive Officer of Wells Fargo   Company (the
 Company ), certify that:

(1) 
       
     The Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, (the
 Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ JOHN G. STUMPF

John G. Stumpf 

President and Chief Executive Officer  

Wells Fargo   Company 

February 27, 2009 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Wells
Fargo   Company and will be retained by Wells Fargo   Company and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.(A)>

<EX-32.(B)>
 15
 f51597exv32wxby.htm
 EX-32.(B)

exv32wxby 

Exhibit 32(b) 

Certification of Periodic Financial Report by 
Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
and 18 U.S.C.   1350 

I, Howard I. Atkins, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Wells
Fargo   Company (the  Company ), certify that:

(1) 
       
     The Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, (the
 Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ HOWARD I. ATKINS

Howard I. Atkins 

Senior Executive Vice President and  

Chief Financial Officer 

Wells Fargo   Company 

February 27, 2009 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Wells
Fargo   Company and will be retained by Wells Fargo   Company and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.(B)>

