<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100226_10-K_edgar_data_72971_0000950123-10-017877_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>13043016</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>964983</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>339471</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2060847</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>3648171</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>4627677</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>172</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>23</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-10-017877.hdr.sgml : 20100226
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100226132606
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-10-017877
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		29
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100226
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100226

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WELLS FARGO & CO/MN
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000072971
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				410449260
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02979
		FILM NUMBER:		10637802

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		420 MONTGOMERY STREET
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94163
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6126671234

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		WELLS FARGO & COMPANY
		STREET 2:		420 MONTGOMERY STREET
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94163

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NORWEST CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NORTHWEST BANCORPORATION
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19830516

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 P1p2q/K9xBVx6z8YrXZdbwF8yhwi8HwRObHBnJca7MGg475lH4fHB38iIaBayJiz
 Ddfwwlw6GB8SWRNk30mreA==

 0000950123-10-017877.txt : 20100226

10-K
 1
 f54129e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Washington, D.C. 20549 

Form 10-K 

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009                    Commission File
Number 001-2979

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

420 Montgomery Street, San Francisco, California 94163 
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 1-866-878-5865

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Name of Each Exchange 

Title of Each Class

on Which Registered

Common Stock, par value $1-2/3

New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/40 th  interest in a
shares of 8.00% Non- Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series J

NYSE 

7.5% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A Preferred Stock, Series L

NYSE 

See list of additional securities listed on the NYSE and the NYSE Alternext U.S. on the page
directly following this cover page.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 

Dividend Equalization Preferred Shares, no par value

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of
the Securities Act.      Yes             No           

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes            No            

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2)
has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.             Yes             No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant
to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files).             Yes             No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.              

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large
accelerated filer,   accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer    

Accelerated filer     

Non-accelerated filer    

Smaller reporting company     

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell Company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).

Yes            No            

At June 30, 2009, the aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates was
approximately $111.9 billion, based on a closing price of $24.26. At January 31, 2010,
5,180,727,661 shares of common stock were outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference in Form 10-K 

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

PART I.   
     ITEM 1. BUSINESS   
     ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   
     ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   
     ITEM 2. PROPERTIES   
     ITEM 3.      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   
     ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   
     PART II   
     ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   
     ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   
     ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
     ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   
     ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   
     ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   
     ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   
     ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION   
     PART III   
     ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   
     ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   
     ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   
     ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE   
     ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES   
     PART IV   
     ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   
   SIGNATURES   
   EXHIBIT INDEX   
   EX-10.A   
   EX-10.C   
   EX-10.F   
   EX-10.W   
   EX-10.AA   
   EX-12.A   
   EX-12.B   
   EX-13   
   EX-21   
   EX-23   
   EX-24   
   EX-31.A   
   EX-31.B   
   EX-32.A   
   EX-32.B   
   EX-99.A   
   EX-99.B   
   EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT   
   EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT   
   EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT   
   EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT   
   EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT   
   EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT   

Table of Contents   

  Additional securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act: 

Name of Each Exchange 

Title of Each Class

on Which Registered

Notes Linked to the Dow Jones Industrial Average SM  due May 5, 2010

NYSE Alternext U.S. 

ASTROS (ASseT Return Obligation Securities) Linked to the Nikkei 225(R)
Index Due March 2, 2010

NYSE Alternext U.S. 

ASTROS (ASseT Return Obligation Securities) Linked to the Dow Jones Global
Titans 50 Index due March 3, 2010

NYSE Alternext U.S. 

ASTROS (ASseT Return Obligation Securities) Linked to the Global Equity
Basket (Series 2005-2) due May 5, 2010

NYSE Alternext U.S. 

Exchangeable Notes Linked to the Common Stock of Three Oil Industry
Companies due December 15, 2010

NYSE Alternext U.S. 

Guarantee of 7.0% Capital Securities of Wells Fargo Capital IV

NYSE 

Guarantee of 5.85% Trust Preferred Securities (TRUPS   ) of Wells
Fargo Capital VII

NYSE 

Guarantee of 5.625% Trust Preferred Securities of Wells Fargo Capital VIII

NYSE 

Guarantee of 5.625% Trust Originated Preferred Securities
(TOPrS SM ) of Wells Fargo Capital IX

NYSE 

Guarantee of 6.25% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities (Enhanced
TruPS   ) of Wells Fargo Capital XI

NYSE 

Guarantee of 7.875% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities (Enhanced
TruPS   ) of Wells Fargo Capital XII

NYSE 

Guarantee of 7.70% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Purchase
Securities of Wells Fargo Capital XIII

NYSE 

Remarketable 7.50% Junior Subordinated Notes due 2044

NYSE 

Guarantee of 8.625% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities (Enhanced
TruPS   ) of Wells Fargo Capital XIV

NYSE 

Guarantee of 9.75% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Purchase
Securities of Wells Fargo Capital XV

NYSE 

Remarketable 9.25% Junior Subordinated Notes due 2044

NYSE 

Guarantee of 5.80% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Wachovia Income Trust
Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust III

NYSE 

Guarantee of 6.375% Trust Preferred Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust IV

NYSE 

Guarantee of 6.375% Trust Preferred Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust IX

NYSE 

Guarantee of 7.85% Trust Preferred Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust X

NYSE 

Table of Contents   

PART I. 

ITEM 1.        BUSINESS 

Wells Fargo   Company is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware and a financial holding
company and a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as
amended (BHC Act). Its principal business is to act as a holding company for its subsidiaries.
References in this report to  the Parent  mean the holding company. References to  we,   our,   us 
or  the Company  mean the holding company and its subsidiaries that are consolidated for financial
reporting purposes.

We are the product of two significant mergers, the first occurring on November 2, 1998, between
Norwest Corporation (Norwest) and the former Wells Fargo   Company, in which Norwest survived the
merger and assumed the Wells Fargo   Company name, and the second occurring on December 31, 2008,
between the Company and Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia) in which the Company survived the merger.
We acquired Wachovia in a transaction valued at $12.5 billion to Wachovia common stockholders.
Wachovia, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, was one of the nation s largest diversified financial
services companies, providing a broad range of retail banking and brokerage, asset and wealth
management, and corporate and investment banking products and services to customers through 3,300
financial centers in 21 states from Connecticut to Florida and west to Texas and California, and
nationwide retail brokerage, mortgage lending and auto finance businesses.

At December 31, 2009, we had assets of $1.2 trillion, loans of $783 billion, deposits of $824
billion and stockholders  equity of $112 billion. Based on assets, we were the fourth largest bank
holding company in the United States. At December 31, 2009, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. was the
Company s principal subsidiary with assets of $609 billion, or 49% of the Company s assets. As a
result of our acquisition with Wachovia, we also owned Wachovia Bank, N.A., with assets of $510
billion at December 31, 2009.

At December 31, 2009, we had 267,300 active, full-time equivalent team members.

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports, are available free at www.wellsfargo.com (select  About Us,  then
 Investor Relations   More,  then  More SEC Filings ) as soon as reasonably practicable after they
are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They
are also available free on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov.

1 

Table of Contents   

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 

General 

We are a diversified financial services company. We provide retail, commercial and corporate
banking services through banking stores located in 39 states and the District of Columbia:

Alabama

Iowa

North Dakota 

Alaska

Kansas

Ohio 

Arizona

Maryland

Oregon 

Arkansas

Michigan

Pennsylvania 

California

Minnesota

South Carolina 

Colorado

Mississippi

South Dakota 

Connecticut

Montana

Tennessee 

Delaware

Nebraska

Texas 

Florida

Nevada

Utah 

Georgia

New Jersey

Virginia 

Idaho

New Mexico

Washington 

Illinois

New York

Wisconsin 

Indiana

North Carolina

Wyoming 

We provide other financial services through subsidiaries engaged in various businesses,
principally: wholesale banking, mortgage banking, consumer finance, equipment leasing, agricultural
finance, commercial finance, securities brokerage and investment banking, insurance agency and
brokerage services, computer and data processing services, trust services, investment advisory
services, mortgage-backed securities servicing and venture capital investment.

We have three operating segments for management reporting purposes: Community Banking; Wholesale
Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. The 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders includes
financial information and descriptions of these operating segments.

Competition 

The financial services industry is highly competitive. Our subsidiaries compete with financial
services providers, such as banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies,
mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, and mutual fund companies. They also face
increased competition from nonbank institutions such as brokerage houses, as well as from financial
services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. Many of these competitors enjoy
fewer regulatory constraints and some may have lower cost structures.

Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may
acquire banks and other financial institutions. Combinations of this type could significantly
change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. The financial services industry is
also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to
provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the

2 

Table of Contents   

importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds
between parties.

REGULATION AND SUPERVISION 

We describe below, and in Notes 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions) and 25 (Regulatory and
Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements included in the 2009 Annual Report to
Stockholders, the material elements of the regulatory framework applicable to us. The description
is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations and
policies that are described. Banking statutes, regulations and policies are continually under
review by Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies, and a change
in them, including changes in how they are interpreted or implemented, could have a material effect
on our business. The regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies is intended to
protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking system as a whole,
and not necessarily investors in bank holding companies such as the Company.

Statutes, regulations and policies could restrict our ability to diversify into other areas of
financial services, acquire depository institutions, and pay dividends on our capital stock. They
may also require us to provide financial support to one or more of our subsidiary banks, maintain
capital balances in excess of those desired by management, and pay higher deposit insurance
premiums as a result of a general deterioration in the financial condition of depository
institutions. See the  Risk Factors  section in the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders for
additional information.

General 

Parent Bank Holding Company.  As a bank holding company, the Parent is subject to regulation under
the BHC Act and to inspection, examination and supervision by its primary regulator, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board or FRB). The Parent is also subject
to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC. As a listed company
on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Parent is subject to the rules of the NYSE for listed
companies.

Subsidiary Banks.  Our subsidiary national banks are subject to regulation and examination
primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and also by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the FRB. The foreign branches and representative offices of our
subsidiary national banks are subject to regulation and examination by their respective foreign
financial regulators as well as by the OCC and the FRB. Our state-chartered banks are subject to
primary federal regulation and examination by the FDIC and, in addition, are regulated and examined
by their respective state banking departments.

3 

Table of Contents   

Nonbank Subsidiaries.  Many of our nonbank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the FRB
and other applicable federal and state agencies. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to
regulation by applicable state insurance regulatory agencies, as well as the FRB. Our brokerage
subsidiaries are regulated by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and, in
some cases, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and state securities regulators. Our other
nonbank subsidiaries may be subject to the laws and regulations of the federal government and/or
the various states as well as foreign countries in which they conduct business.

Parent Bank Holding Company Activities 

Financial in Nature  Requirement.  We became a financial holding company effective March 13, 2000.
We continue to maintain our status as a bank holding company for purposes of other FRB regulations.
As a bank holding company that has elected to become a financial holding company pursuant to the
BHC Act, we may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other
activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are
financial in nature.  Financial in nature  activities include securities underwriting, dealing and
market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency;
merchant banking; and activities that the FRB, in consultation with the Secretary of the U.S.
Treasury, determines to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity.
 Complimentary activities  are activities that the FRB determines upon application to be
complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a safety and soundness risk.

FRB approval is not required for us to acquire a company (other than a bank holding company, bank
or savings association) engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to
activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. Prior FRB approval is required
before we may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or
substantially all of the assets of a bank holding company, bank or savings association.
Because we are a financial holding company, if any of our subsidiary banks receives a rating under
the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (CRA), of less than satisfactory, we will be
prohibited, until the rating is raised to satisfactory or better, from engaging in new activities
or acquiring companies other than bank holding companies, banks or savings associations, except
that we could engage in new activities, or acquire companies engaged in activities, that are
closely related to banking under the BHC Act. In addition, if the FRB finds that any of our
subsidiary banks is not well capitalized or well managed, we would be required to enter into an
agreement with the FRB to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements and which
may contain additional limitations or conditions. Until corrected, we could be prohibited from
engaging in any new activity or acquiring companies engaged in activities that are not closely
related to banking under the BHC Act without prior FRB approval. If we fail to correct any such
condition within a prescribed period, the FRB could order us to divest our banking subsidiaries or,
in the alternative, to cease engaging in activities other than those closely related to banking
under the BHC Act.

Interstate Banking . Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Act (Riegle-Neal Act),
a bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state
requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of

4 

Table of Contents   

time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company not control,
prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of
insured depository institutions nationwide or, unless the acquisition is the bank holding company s
initial entry into the state, more than 30% of such deposits in the state (or such lesser or
greater amount set by the state).

The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines, thereby creating interstate
branches. Banks are also permitted to acquire and to establish new branches in other states where
authorized under the laws of those states.

Regulatory Approval.  In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank
regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition,
financial condition, and future prospects including current and projected capital ratios and
levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws
and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring
institution s record of compliance under the CRA, and the effectiveness of the acquiring
institution in combating money laundering activities.

Dividend Restrictions 

The Parent is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiary banks and other
subsidiaries. A significant source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and
principal and interest on our debt is dividends from the Parent s subsidiaries. Various federal and
state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends the Parent s subsidiary
banks and certain other subsidiaries may pay without regulatory approval. Federal bank regulatory
agencies have the authority to prohibit the Parent s subsidiary banks from engaging in unsafe or
unsound practices in conducting their businesses. The payment of dividends, depending on the
financial condition of the bank in question, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice. The
ability of the Parent s subsidiary banks to pay dividends in the future is currently, and could be
further, influenced by bank regulatory policies and capital guidelines. For information about the
restrictions applicable to the Parent s subsidiary banks, see Note 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend
Restrictions) to Financial Statements included in the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders.

The Parent s Board reduced its quarterly common stock dividend to $0.05 per share in second quarter
2009 to retain current period earnings and build common equity. As a participant in the Supervisory
Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) the Parent must consult with the Federal Reserve staff before
increasing the level of dividends. The FRB published clarifying supervisory guidance in first
quarter 2009,  SR 09-4 Applying Supervisory Guidance and Regulations on the Payment of Dividends,
Stock Redemptions, and Stock Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies,  pertaining to the FRB s
criteria, assessment and approval process for reductions in capital. As with all 19 participants in
the SCAP, under this supervisory letter, before raising our common dividend, the Parent must
consult with the Federal Reserve staff and demonstrate that its actions are consistent with the
existing supervisory guidance, including demonstrating that its internal capital assessment process
is consistent with the complexity of its activities and risk profile.

5 

Table of Contents   

Holding Company Structure 

Transfer of Funds from Subsidiary Banks.  The Parent s subsidiary banks are subject to restrictions
under federal law that limit the transfer of funds or other items of value from such subsidiaries
to the Parent and its nonbank subsidiaries (including affiliates) in so-called  covered
transactions.  In general, covered transactions include loans and other extensions of credit,
investments and asset purchases, as well as certain other transactions involving the transfer of
value from a subsidiary bank to an affiliate or for the benefit of an affiliate. Unless an
exemption applies, covered transactions by a subsidiary bank with a single affiliate are limited to
10% of the subsidiary bank s capital and surplus and, with respect to all covered transactions with
affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of the subsidiary bank s capital and surplus. Also, loans and
extensions of credit to affiliates generally are required to be secured by qualifying collateral. A
bank s transactions with its nonbank affiliates are also generally required to be on arm s length
terms.

Source of Strength.  The FRB has a policy that a bank holding company is expected to act as a
source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate
circumstances, to commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be
required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide the support.

The OCC may order an assessment of the Parent if the capital of one of its national bank
subsidiaries were to become impaired. If the Parent failed to pay the assessment within three
months, the OCC could order the sale of the Parent s stock in the national bank to cover the
deficiency.

Capital loans by the Parent to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to
deposits and certain other indebtedness of the subsidiary bank. In addition, in the event of the
Parent s bankruptcy, any commitment by the Parent to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain
the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a
priority of payment.

Depositor Preference.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act) provides that, in the event of
the  liquidation or other resolution  of an insured depository institution, the claims of
depositors of the institution (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors)
and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over
other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails,
insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of
unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including the Parent, with respect to any extensions of credit
they have made to such insured depository institution.

Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions.  All of the Company s subsidiary banks are insured
by the FDIC. FDIC-insured depository institutions can be held liable for any loss incurred, or
reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of an FDIC-insured depository
institution controlled by the same bank holding company, and for any assistance provided by the
FDIC to an FDIC-insured depository institution that is in danger of default and that is controlled
by the same bank holding company.  Default  means generally the

6 

Table of Contents   

appointment of a conservator or receiver.  In danger of default  means generally the existence of
certain conditions indicating that a default is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory
assistance.

Capital Requirements 

We are subject to regulatory capital requirements and guidelines imposed by the FRB, which are
substantially similar to those imposed by the OCC and the FDIC on depository institutions within
their jurisdictions. Under these guidelines, a depository institution s or a holding company s
assets and certain specified off-balance sheet commitments and obligations are assigned to various
risk categories. A depository institution s or holding company s capital, in turn, is classified
into one of three tiers. Tier 1 capital includes common equity, noncumulative perpetual preferred
stock, a limited amount of cumulative perpetual preferred stock at the holding company level, and
minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill and certain other
deductions. Tier 2 capital includes, among other things, perpetual preferred stock not qualified as
Tier 1 capital, subordinated debt, and allowances for loan and lease losses, subject to certain
limitations. Tier 3 capital includes qualifying unsecured subordinated debt. At least one-half of a
bank s total capital must qualify as Tier 1 capital.

National banks and bank holding companies currently are required to maintain Tier 1 capital and the
sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital equal to at least 4% and 8%, respectively, of their total
risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of
credit). The risk-based capital rules state that the capital requirements are minimum standards
based primarily on broad credit-risk considerations and do not take into account the other types of
risk a banking organization may be exposed to (e.g., interest rate, market, liquidity and
operational risks). The FRB may, therefore, set higher capital requirements for categories of banks
(e.g. systematically important firms), or for an individual bank as situations warrant. For
example, holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to
maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without
significant reliance on intangible assets. For these reasons, we are expected to operate with a
capital position well above the minimum ratios, with the amount of capital held to be determined by
us though an internal capital assessment that corresponds to our broad risk exposure.

The regulatory capital rules state that voting common stockholders  equity should be the dominant
element within Tier 1 capital and that banking organizations should avoid overreliance on
non-common equity elements. During 2009, in conjunction with the FRB s SCAP stress test process,
the ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk weighted assets became significant as a measurement of
the predominance of common equity in Tier 1 capital. There is currently no mandated minimum ratio.

In June 2004, the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision published new international guidelines for
determining regulatory capital that are designed to be more risk sensitive than the existing
framework and to promote enhanced risk management practices among large, internationally active
banking organizations. The United States federal bank regulatory agencies each approved a final
rule similar to the international guidelines in November 2007. This new advance capital adequacy
framework is known as  Basel II,  and is intended to more closely align regulatory

7 

Table of Contents   

capital requirements with actual risks. Basel II incorporates three pillars that address (a)
capital adequacy, (b) supervisory review, which relates to the computation of capital and internal
assessment processes, and (c) market discipline, through increased disclosure requirements.
Embodied within these pillars are aspects of risk strategy, measurement and management that relate
to credit risk, market risk, and operational risk. Banking organizations are required to enhance
the measurement and management of those risks through the use of advanced approaches for
calculating risk-based capital requirements. Basel II includes safeguards that include a
requirement that banking organizations conduct a parallel run over a period of four consecutive
calendar quarters for measuring regulatory capital under the new regulatory capital rules and the
existing general risk-based capital rules before solely operating under the Basel II framework; a
requirement that an institution satisfactorily complete a series of transitional periods before
operating under Basel II without floors; and a commitment by the federal bank regulatory agencies
to conduct ongoing analysis of the framework to ensure Basel II is working as intended. Following a
successful parallel run period, a banking organization would have to progress through three
transitional periods (each lasting at least one year), during which there would be floors on
potential declines in risk-based capital requirements as calculated under the current rules. Those
transitional floors provide for maximum cumulative reductions of required risk-based capital of 5%
during the first year of implementation, 10% in the second year and 15% in the third year. A
banking organization will need approval from its primary Federal regulator to move into each of the
transitional floor periods, and at the end of the third transitional floor period to move to full
implementation. Wells Fargo is implementing the advanced approach under Basel II, and has
established a project management infrastructure to implement the regulations.

In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have established minimum leverage (Tier 1 capital
to adjusted average total assets) guidelines for banks within their regulatory jurisdiction. These
guidelines provide for a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for banks that meet certain specified
criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate exposure and the
highest regulatory rating. Institutions not meeting these criteria are required to maintain a
leverage ratio of 4%. Our Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratio as of
December 31, 2009, are included in Note 25 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to
Financial Statements included in the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders. At December 31, 2009, the
Company and each of its subsidiary banks were  well capitalized  under the applicable regulatory
capital adequacy guidelines.

In addition, in 2009, the FRB conducted a test under the SCAP to forecast capital levels for
financial institutions in an adverse economic scenario. Following the results of that stress test,
the FRB required the Company to generate a $13.7 billion regulatory capital buffer by November 9,
2009. The Company exceeded this requirement through an $8.6 billion (gross proceeds) common stock
offering, strong revenue performance, realization of deferred tax assets, and other internally
generated sources, including core deposit intangible amortization.

From time to time, the FRB and the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
propose changes and amendments to, and issue interpretations of, risk-based capital guidelines and
related reporting instructions. In addition, the FRB has closely monitored capital levels of the
institutions it supervises during the ongoing financial disruption, and may require such

8 

Table of Contents   

institutions to modify capital levels based on FRB determinations. Such determinations, proposals
or interpretations could, if implemented in the future, affect our reported capital ratios and net
risk-adjusted assets.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions,
the FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and
soundness standards for institutions for which they are the primary federal regulator. The
standards relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure,
executive compensation and risk management. The agencies are authorized to take action against
institutions that fail to meet such standards.

The FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to take  prompt corrective action  with
respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. A
depository institution s treatment for purposes of the prompt corrective action provisions will
depend upon how its capital levels compare to various capital measures and certain other factors,
as established by regulation.

Deposit Insurance Assessments 

Our bank subsidiaries, including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wachovia Bank, N.A., are members of the
Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits
of our banks up to prescribed limits for each depositor. The DIF was formed March 31, 2006, upon
the merger of the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Insurance Fund in accordance with the Federal
Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the Act). The Act established a range of 1.15% to 1.50%
within which the FDIC board of directors may set the Designated Reserve Ratio (reserve ratio or
DRR). The current target DRR is 1.25%. However, the Act has eliminated restrictions on premium
rates based on the DRR and granted the FDIC Board the discretion to price deposit insurance
according to risk for all insured institutions regardless of the level of the reserve ratio.

To maintain the DIF, member institutions are assessed an insurance premium based on their deposits
and their institutional risk category. The FDIC determines an institution s risk category by
combining its supervisory ratings with its financial ratios and other risk measures. For large
institutions (assets of $10 billion or more), the FDIC generally determines risk by combining
supervisory ratings, the institution s long-term debt issuer ratings and, beginning April 1, 2009,
certain financial ratios.

Recent depository institutional failures have resulted in a decline in the DIF reserve ratio to
below 1.15%. Under the Act, in October 2008 the FDIC Board adopted a Restoration Plan to return the
DIF to its statutorily mandated minimum reserve ratio of 1.15% within five years. In February 2009,
given the extraordinary circumstances facing the banking industry, the Board amended its
Restoration Plan to allow the Fund seven years to return to the ratio of 1.15%. In May 2009,
Congress amended the statute governing establishment of the Plan to allow the FDIC up to eight
years to return the DIF reserve ratio back to 1.15%, absent extraordinary circumstances.

9 

Table of Contents   

In 2009, the FDIC undertook several measures in an effort to replenish the DIF. On February 27,
2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule modifying the risk-based assessment system and set new initial
base assessment rates beginning April 1, 2009. Rates range from a minimum of 12 cents per $100 of
domestic deposits for well-managed, well-capitalized institutions with the highest credit ratings,
to 45 cents per $100 for those institutions posing the most risk to the DIF. Risk-based adjustments
to the initial assessment rate may lower the rate to 7 cents per $100 of domestic deposits for
well-managed, well-capitalized banks with the highest credit ratings or raise the rate to 77.5
cents per $100 for depository institutions posing the most risk to the DIF.

On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule imposing a 5 basis point special assessment on each
insured depository institution s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. The amount of the
special assessment for any institution was limited to 10 basis points times the institution s
assessment base for the second quarter 2009. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC increased the annual
assessment rates uniformly by 3 basis points beginning in 2011. On November 17, 2009, the FDIC
amended its regulations to require insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly
risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. For
purposes of determining the prepayment, the FDIC used the institution s assessment rate in effect
on September 30, 2009. The combined prepayment amount for our banking subsidiaries was $3.9
billion.

On January 12, 2010, the FDIC issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking seeking
comment on ways the FDIC s risk-based assessment system could be changed to account for the
risks posed by certain employee compensation programs. The FDIC is concerned with adjusting
risk-based assessment rates to adequately compensate the DIF for risks inherent in the design of
certain compensation programs. Any change to the risk-based assessment system would be
intended to improve the way risk is differentiated among institutions
rather than generate revenue for the DIF.

All FDIC-insured depository institutions must also pay an annual assessment towards interest
payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, a federal corporation chartered under the
authority of the Federal Housing Finance Board. The bonds (commonly referred to as FICO bonds) were
issued to capitalize the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. FDIC-insured depository
institutions paid approximately 1.02 to 1.14 cents per $100 of assessable deposits in 2009. The
FDIC established the FICO assessment rate effective for first quarter 2010 at 1.06 cents annually
per $100 of assessable deposits.

In 2009, under the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, participating institutions paid a
premium of 10 cents per $100 to fully insure domestic noninterest-bearing transaction accounts. The
assessment was paid on account balances in excess of the insurance limits. Our bank subsidiaries
will not participate in this program beginning January 1, 2010.

The FDIC may terminate a depository institution s deposit insurance upon a finding that the
institution s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in
unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition
enacted or imposed by the institution s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for
one or more of our bank subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our earnings,
depending on the collective size of the particular banks involved.

10 

Table of Contents   

Fiscal and Monetary Policies 

Our business and earnings are affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the
federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which
regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Among the instruments of monetary
policy available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in United States government
securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings of depository institutions, (c) imposing
or changing reserve requirements against depository institutions  deposits, and (d) imposing or
changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These
methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank
loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The
policies of the FRB may have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.

Privacy Provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Restrictions on Cross-Selling 

Federal banking regulators, as required under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the GLB Act), have
adopted rules limiting the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic
information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. The rules require disclosure of privacy
policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain
personal information to nonaffiliated third parties. The privacy provisions of the GLB Act affect
how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial services companies and
conveyed to outside vendors.

Federal financial regulators have issued regulations under the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transactions Act, which have the effect of increasing the length of the waiting period, after
privacy disclosures are provided to new customers, before information can be shared among different
affiliated companies for the purpose of cross-selling products and services between those
affiliated companies. This may result in certain cross-sell programs being less effective than they
have been in the past.

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) implemented a broad range of corporate governance
and accounting measures to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for
accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies, and to protect investors by
improving the accuracy and reliability of disclosures under federal securities laws. We are subject
to Sarbanes-Oxley because we are required to file periodic reports with the SEC under the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Among other things, Sarbanes-Oxley and/or its implementing
regulations have established new membership requirements and additional responsibilities for our
audit committee, imposed restrictions on the relationship between us and our outside auditors
(including restrictions on the types of non-audit services our auditors may provide to us), imposed
additional responsibilities for our external financial statements on our chief executive officer
and chief financial officer, expanded the disclosure requirements for our corporate insiders,
required our management to evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control
over financial reporting, and required our auditors to issue a report on our internal control over
financial reporting. The NYSE has imposed a number of new corporate governance requirements as
well.

11 

Table of Contents   

Patriot Act 

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and
Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (Patriot Act) is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law
enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to work together to combat terrorism on a variety
of fronts. The Patriot Act has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers,
dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act requires us to
implement new or revised policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance,
suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The
Patriot Act also requires federal bank regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in
combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition.

U.S. Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program 

On October 28, 2008, we issued preferred stock and a warrant to purchase our common stock to the
U.S. Treasury as a participant in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. On December 23, 2009, we
redeemed all of the preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury and repaid the entire $25 billion
investment plus accrued dividends. The U.S. Treasury continues to hold the warrant. During the
period that the U.S. Treasury owned the preferred stock, we were subject to numerous additional
regulations, including restrictions on our ability to increase our common stock dividend,
limitations on the compensation arrangements for our senior executive officers and the next 20 most
highly compensated employees, and additional corporate governance standards. Following the
redemption of the preferred stock, we are no longer subject to these regulations other than certain
reporting and certification obligations related to activities during 2009.

FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program 

We participated in the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP). The TLGP had two
components: the Debt Guarantee Program, which provided a temporary guarantee of newly issued senior
unsecured debt issued by eligible entities; and the Transaction Account Guarantee Program, which
provided a temporary unlimited guarantee of funds in noninterest-bearing transaction accounts at
FDIC-insured institutions. The Debt Guarantee Program expired on October 31, 2009, and Wells Fargo
opted out of the Transaction Account Guarantee Program effective December 31, 2009.

Future Legislation 

In light of current conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets and the U.S. and global
economy, legislators, the presidential administration and regulators have increased their focus on
the regulation of the financial services industry. Proposals that could substantially intensify the
regulation of the financial services industry have been and are expected to continue to be
introduced in the U.S. Congress, in state legislatures and from applicable regulatory authorities.
These proposals may change banking statutes and regulation and our operating environment in
substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, these proposals could increase or decrease our cost
of doing business, impact our compensation structure, limit or expand permissible activities

12 

Table of Contents   

or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other
financial institutions. We cannot predict whether any of these proposals will be enacted and, if
enacted, the effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on our business, results
of operations or financial condition.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

Additional information in response to this Item 1 can be found in the 2009 Annual Report to
Stockholders under  Financial Review  on pages 34-87 and under  Financial Statements  on pages
90-186. That information is incorporated into this report by reference.

ITEM 1A.      RISK FACTORS 

Information in response to this Item 1A can be found in this report on pages 2-13 and in the 2009
Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Review  
Risk Factors  on pages 81-87. That
information is incorporated into this report by reference.

ITEM 1B.      UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

Not applicable.

ITEM 2.      PROPERTIES 

We own our corporate headquarters building in San Francisco, California. We also own administrative
facilities in Anchorage, Alaska; Chandler, Phoenix, and Tempe, Arizona; El Monte and San Francisco,
California; Minneapolis and Shoreview, Minnesota; Billings, Montana; Omaha, Nebraska; Albuquerque,
New Mexico; Portland, Oregon; Sioux Falls, South Dakota; and Salt Lake City, Utah. In addition, we
lease office space for various administrative departments in major locations in Arizona,
California, Colorado, Minnesota, Nevada, Oregon, Texas and Utah. As a result of the acquisition of
Wachovia, we lease a multi-office building complex in Charlotte, North Carolina, and are completing
a high rise complex in close proximity. We also own administrative facilities in Irvine,
California; St. Louis, Missouri; Charlotte and Raleigh, North Carolina; Summit, New Jersey; and
Glen Allen, Virginia. In addition, we lease office space for various administrative departments in
major locations in California, Florida, Georgia, Massachusetts, Missouri, New Jersey, New York,
North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Texas, and Virginia.

As of December 31, 2009, we provided banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance
from more than 10,000 stores under various types of ownership and leasehold agreements. We own the
Wells Fargo Home Mortgage (Home Mortgage) headquarters in Des Moines, Iowa, and
operations/servicing centers in Springfield, Illinois; West Des Moines, Iowa; and Minneapolis,
Minnesota. We lease administrative space for Home Mortgage in Tempe, Arizona; San Bernardino,
California; Des Moines, Iowa; Frederick, Maryland; Minneapolis, Minnesota; St. Louis, Missouri;
Fort Mill, South Carolina; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; and all mortgage production offices nationwide. We
own the Wells Fargo Financial, Inc. (WFFI) headquarters and four administrative buildings in Des
Moines, Iowa, and an operations center in

13 

Table of Contents   

Sioux Falls, South Dakota. We lease administrative space for WFFI in Tempe, Arizona; Lake Mary,
Florida; Des Moines, Iowa; Kansas City, Kansas; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Mississauga, Ontario;
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; San Juan, Puerto Rico; Aberdeen, South Dakota; Vancouver, Washington;
and all store locations. As a result of the acquisition of Wachovia, we own the Wells Fargo
Advisors headquarters in St. Louis, Missouri, and operations/servicing centers in Birmingham and
Homewood, Alabama; San Leandro, California; St. Louis, Missouri; Charlotte and Winston-Salem, North
Carolina; and San Antonio, Texas. We also lease operations/servicing centers in Oakland,
California; Jacksonville and Orlando, Florida; Atlanta, Georgia; Winston-Salem, North Carolina;
Salem, Oregon; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and Roanoke, Virginia.

We are also a joint venture partner in an office building in downtown Minneapolis, Minnesota.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

Additional information in response to this Item 2 can be found in the 2009 Annual Report to
Stockholders under  Financial Statements   Notes to Financial Statements   Note 7 (Premises,
Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets)  on page 123. That information is incorporated into
this report by reference.

ITEM 3.           LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

Information in response to this Item 3 can be found in the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders under
 Financial Statements   Notes to Financial Statements   Note 14 (Guarantees and Legal Actions) 
on pages 141-146. That information is incorporated into this report by reference.

ITEM 4.          SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE RESIGSTRANT 

Information relating to the Company s executive officers is included in Item 10 of this report.

14 

Table of Contents   

PART II 

ITEM 5.         
       
      MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES  

MARKET INFORMATION 

The Company s common stock is listed on the NYSE (symbol  WFC ). The Quarterly Financial Data table
on page 187 of the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders provides the quarterly prices of, and
quarterly dividends paid on, the Company s common stock for the two-year period ended December 31,
2009, and is incorporated herein by reference. Prices shown represent the daily high and low, and
the quarter-end sale prices of the Company s common stock as reported on the NYSE Composite
Transaction Reporting System for the periods indicated. At January 29, 2010, there were 207,047
holders of record of the Company s common stock.

DIVIDENDS 

The dividend restrictions discussions on page 5 of this report and in the 2009 Annual Report to
Stockholders under  Financial Statements   Notes to Financial Statements   Note 3 (Cash, Loan and
Dividend Restrictions)  on page 111 are incorporated into this report by reference.

REPURCHASES OF COMMON STOCK 

In September 2008, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 25 million shares of our
common stock. The authorization covered shares repurchased to meet team member benefit plan
requirements. The Company maintains a variety of retirement plans for its team members and
typically is a net issuer of shares of common stock to these plans. From time to time, it also
purchases shares of common stock from these plans to accommodate team member preferences. Share
repurchases are subtracted from the Company s repurchase authority without offset for share
issuances. Shares may be repurchased as part of employee stock option exercises, from the different
benefit plans or in the open market.

The amount and timing of stock repurchases will be based on various factors, such as management s
assessment of our capital structure and liquidity, the market price of our common stock compared to
management s assessment of the stock s underlying value, and applicable regulatory, legal and
accounting factors. In addition, repurchases in connection with employees surrendering shares to
exercise employee stock options will depend upon the amount and timing of those option exercises.
See the  Capital Management  section in the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders for additional
information about our share repurchases.

15 

Table of Contents   

The following table shows the Company s repurchases of its common stock for each calendar
month in the quarter ended December 31, 2009.

(1) 
       
     All shares were repurchased under the authorization to repurchase 25 million shares of
common stock approved by the Board of Directors and
publicly announced on September 23, 2008. Unless modified or revoked by the Board, this
authorization does not expire except upon completion of
repurchases totaling the amount authorized for repurchase. Repurchase information based on trade
date, not settlement date. Pursuant to the
Company s employee stock option plans, participants may exercise stock options by surrendering
shares of Company common stock the participants
already own as payment of the option exercise price. Repurchases in the table include shares so
surrendered which are valued based on the closing
price on the business day they were surrendered. 

ITEM 6.       
       
      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  

Information in response to this Item 6 can be found in the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders under
 Financial Review  in Table 1 on page 35. That information is incorporated into this report by
reference.

ITEM 7.       
       
      MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Information in response to this Item 7 can be found in the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders under
 Financial Review  on pages 34-87. That information is incorporated into this report by reference.

ITEM 7A.     
       
      QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Information in response to this Item 7A can be found in the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders
under  Financial Review   Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management  on pages 66-70. That
information is incorporated into this report by reference.

ITEM 8.        
       
      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  

Information in response to this Item 8 can be found in the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders under
 Financial Statements  on pages 90-186 and under
 Quarterly Financial Data  on page 187. That
information is incorporated into this report by reference.

16 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 9.     
       
      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  

Not applicable. 

ITEM 9A.  
       
      CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

Information in response to this Item 9A can be found in the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders
under  Controls and Procedures  on pages 88-89. That information is incorporated into this report
by reference.

ITEM 9B.  
       
      OTHER INFORMATION  

Not applicable.

17 

Table of Contents   

PART III 

ITEM 10.  
       
      DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

Howard I. Atkins (age 59)

Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2005;

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from August 2001 to August 2005.

Mr. Atkins has served with the Company for 8 years.

Patricia R. Callahan (age 56)

Executive Vice President (Office of Transition) since January 2009;

Executive Vice President (Social Responsibility Group) from June 2008 to December 2008;

Executive Vice President (Compliance and Risk) from June 2005 to September 2007;

Executive Vice President (Human Resources) from November 1998 to June 2005.

Ms. Callahan has served with the Company or its predecessors for 32 years.

David M. Carroll (age 52)

Senior Executive Vice President (Wealth Management, Brokerage and Retirement) since January 2009;

Senior Executive Vice President of Wachovia Corporation from September 2001 to January 2009.

Mr. Carroll has served with the Company or its predecessors for 28 years.

David A. Hoyt (age 54)

Senior Executive Vice President (Wholesale Banking) since August 2005;

Group Executive Vice President (Wholesale Banking) from November 1998 to August 2005.

Mr. Hoyt has served with the Company or its predecessors for 28 years.

Richard D. Levy (age 52)

Executive Vice President and Controller since February 2007;

Senior Vice President and Controller from September 2002 to February 2007.

Mr. Levy has served with the Company for 7 years.

Michael J. Loughlin (age 54)

Executive Vice President and Chief Credit and Risk Officer since April 2006;

Deputy Chief Credit Officer from January 2006 to April 2006;

Executive Vice President of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. from May 2000 to April 2006.

Mr. Loughlin has served with the Company or its predecessors for 28 years.

18 

Table of Contents   

Avid Modjtabai (age 48)

Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer since April 2007;

Executive Vice President (Human Resources) from June 2005 to April 2007;

Executive Vice President (Internet Services) of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. from March 2001 to June 2005.

Ms. Modjtabai has served with the Company or its predecessors for 16 years.

Mark C. Oman (age 55)

Senior Executive Vice President (Home and Consumer Finance) since August 2005;

Group Executive Vice President (Home and Consumer Finance) from September 2002 to August 2005.

Mr. Oman has served with the Company or its predecessors for 30 years.

Kevin A. Rhein (age 56)

Executive Vice President (Card Services and Consumer Lending) since January 2009;

Executive Vice President of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. since February 2004.

Mr. Rhein has served with the Company or its predecessors for 31 years.

James M. Strother (age 58)

Executive Vice President and General Counsel since January 2004.

Mr. Strother has served with the Company or its predecessors for 23 years.

John G. Stumpf (age 56)

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2010;

President and Chief Executive Officer from June 2007 to January 2010;

President and Chief Operating Officer from August 2005 to June 2007;

Group Executive Vice President (Community Banking) from July 2002 to August 2005.

Mr. Stumpf has served with the Company or its predecessors for 28 years.

Carrie L. Tolstedt (age 50)

Senior Executive Vice President (Community Banking) since June 2007;

Group Executive Vice President (Regional Banking) from July 2002 to June 2007.

Ms. Tolstedt has served with the Company or its predecessors for 20 years.

Julie M. White (age 55)

Executive Vice President (Human Resources) from June 2007 to January 2010;

Executive Vice President (Human Resources   Home and Consumer Finance) from March 1998 to June 2007.

Ms. White served with the Company or its predecessors for 23 years and, following her retirement in January 2010, is no longer an executive officer.

There is no family relationship between any of the Company s executive officers or directors. All
executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.

19 

Table of Contents   

AUDIT COMMITTEE INFORMATION 

The Audit and Examination Committee is a standing audit committee of the Board of Directors
established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The
Committee has seven members: John D. Baker II, Lloyd H. Dean, Enrique Hernandez, Jr., Cynthia H.
Milligan, Nicholas G. Moore, Philip J. Quigley and Susan G. Swenson. Each member is independent, as
independence for audit committee members is defined by NYSE rules. The Board of Directors has
determined, in its business judgment, that each member of the Audit and Examination Committee is
financially literate, as required by NYSE rules, and that each qualifies as an  audit committee
financial expert  as defined by SEC regulations.

CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT 

The Company s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for team members (including executive officers),
Director Code of Ethics, the Company s corporate governance guidelines, and the charters for the
Audit and Examination, Governance and Nominating, Human Resources, Credit, and Finance Committees
are available at www.wellsfargo.com (select  About Us,  then  Corporate Governance ). This
information is also available in print to any stockholder upon written request to the Office of the
Secretary, Wells Fargo   Company, MAC N9305-173, Wells Fargo Center, Sixth and Marquette,
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

Additional information in response to this Item 10 can be found in the Company s 2010 Proxy
Statement under  Ownership of Our Common Stock   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance  and  Item 1   Election of Directors   Director Nominees for Election  and   Other
Matters Relating to Directors.  That information is incorporated into this report by reference.

ITEM 11.  
       
      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  

Information in response to this Item 11 can be found in the Company s 2010 Proxy Statement under
 Item 1  Election of Directors   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and
  Director Compensation,  under  Executive Compensation  and under  Information About Related
Persons   Related Person Transactions.  That information is incorporated into this report by
reference.

ITEM 12.  
       
      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS  

Information in response to this Item 12 can be found in the Company s 2010 Proxy Statement under
 Ownership of Our Common Stock  and under  Equity Compensation Plan Information.  That information
is incorporated into this report by reference.

20 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 13.  
       
      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  

Information in response to this Item 13 can be found in the Company s 2010 Proxy Statement under
 Corporate Governance   Director Independence  and under  Information About Related Persons.  That
information is incorporated into this report by reference.

ITEM 14.  
       
      PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES  

Information in response to this Item 14 can be found in the Company s 2010 Proxy Statement under
 Item 4   Appointment of Independent Auditors   KPMG Fees  and   Audit and Examination Committee
Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures.  That information is incorporated into this report by
reference.

PART IV 

ITEM 15.  
       
      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  

1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

The Company s consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, and the report of the
independent registered public accounting firm thereon, are set forth
on pages 90 through 186 of
the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, and are incorporated into this report by reference.

2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

All financial statement schedules for the Company have been included in the consolidated financial
statements or the related footnotes, or are either inapplicable or not required.

3.  EXHIBITS 

A list of exhibits to this Form 10-K is set forth on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such
exhibits and is incorporated into this report by reference.

Stockholders may obtain a copy of any of the following exhibits, upon payment of a reasonable fee,
by writing to Wells Fargo   Company, Office of the Secretary, Wells Fargo Center, N9305-173, Sixth
and Marquette, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479.

The Company s SEC file number is 001-2979. On and before November 2, 1998, the Company filed
documents with the SEC under the name Norwest Corporation. The former Wells Fargo   Company filed
documents under SEC file number 001-6214. The former Wachovia Corporation filed documents under SEC
file number 001-10000.

21 

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized, on February 26, 2010.

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

By:   

 /s/
JOHN G. STUMPF 

John G. Stumpf  

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 
(Principal Executive Officer)  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

By:   

 /s/
HOWARD I. ATKINS 

Howard I. Atkins  

Senior Executive Vice President and
 
Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer) February 26, 2010 

By:   

 /s/
RICHARD D. LEVY 

Richard D. Levy  

Executive Vice President and Controller 
(Principal Accounting Officer) February 26, 2010 

The Directors of Wells Fargo   Company listed below have duly executed powers of attorney
empowering Nicholas G. Moore to sign this document on their behalf.

John D. Baker II

Nicholas G. Moore 

John S. Chen

Philip J. Quigley 

Lloyd H. Dean

Donald B. Rice 

Susan E. Engel

Judith M. Runstad 

Enrique Hernandez, Jr.

Stephen W. Sanger 

Donald M. James

Robert K. Steel 

Richard D. McCormick

John G. Stumpf 

Mackey J. McDonald

Susan G. Swenson 

Cynthia H. Milligan

By:   

 /s/
NICHOLAS G. MOORE 

Nicholas G. Moore  

Director and Attorney-in-fact February 26, 2010 

22 

Table of Contents   

EXHIBIT INDEX 

Exhibit 

Number  
       
      Description  
       
      Location  

3(a)

Restated Certificate of Incorporation. 
       
     Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 28, 2006. 

3(b)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s 2007 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock. 
       
     Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 19, 2007. 

3(c)

Certificate Eliminating the Certificate of Designations for the
Company s 1997 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. 
       
     Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 19, 2007. 

3(d)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s 2008 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock. 
       
     Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 18, 2008. 

3(e)

Certificate Eliminating the Certificate of Designations for the
Company s 1998 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. 
       
     Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 18, 2008. 

3(f)

Certificate Eliminating the Certificate of Designations for the
Company s 1999 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. 
       
     Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 13, 2009. 

3(g)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s Non-Cumulative
Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series
A.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 19, 2008. 

3(h)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s Non-Cumulative
Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B. 
       
     Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 10, 2008. 

3(i)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s Fixed Rate
Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series D. 
       
     Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 30, 2008. 

3(j)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s Dividend
Equalization Preferred Shares. 
       
     Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 30, 2008. 

3(k)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s Class A Preferred
Stock, Series G. 
       
     Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 30, 2008. 

3(l)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s Class A Preferred
Stock, Series H. 
       
     Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 30, 2008. 

3(m)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s Class A Preferred
Stock, Series I. 
       
     Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 30, 2008. 

3(n)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s 8.00% Non-Cumulative
Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series J. 
       
     Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 30, 2008. 

23 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 
       
     Location 

3(o)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s
Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual
Class A Preferred Stock, Series K.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.6 to the Company s Current Report
on Form 8-K filed December 30, 2008. 

3(p)

Certificate of Designations for the Company s 7.50%
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A
Preferred Stock, Series L.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.7 to the Company s Current Report
on Form 8-K filed December 30, 2008. 

3(q)

By-Laws.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
3 to the Company s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed December 4, 2006. 

4(a)

See Exhibits 3(a) through 3(q). 

4(b)

The Company agrees to furnish upon request to the
Commission a copy of each instrument defining the
rights of holders of senior and subordinated debt of
the Company. 

10(a) * 

Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2009. 

Form of Performance Share Award Agreement.

Filed herewith. 

Form of Retention Performance Share Award Agreement
for grants to John G. Stumpf, Howard I. Atkins, David
A. Hoyt and Mark C. Oman on December 24, 2009.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed December
31, 2009. 

Forms of Award Agreement for grants of stock awards
to John G. Stumpf, Howard I. Atkins, David A. Hoyt
and Mark C. Oman.

Incorporated by reference to
Exhibits 10(a), 10(b), 10(c) and
10(d) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed August 6,
2009. 

Form of Restricted Share Rights Award Agreement.

Filed herewith. 

Forms of Award Agreement for grants of restricted
share rights:

For grant to David M. Carroll on December 24,
2009;

Filed herewith. 

For grant to John G. Stumpf on August 3,
2009; and

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(e) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed August 6,
2009. 

For grants to Howard I. Atkins, David A. Hoyt and
Mark C. Oman on February 24, 2009.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed February
27, 2009. 

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement.

Filed herewith. 

10(b)*

Long-Term Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
A to the former Wells Fargo s Proxy
Statement filed March 14, 1994. 

*  
       
     Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

24 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 
       
     Location 

10(c)*

Wells Fargo Bonus Plan, as amended effective January
1, 2009.

Filed herewith. 

10(d)*

Performance-Based Compensation Policy.

Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed
May 5, 2008. 

10(e)

Executive Officer Performance Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed November
23, 2009. 

10(f)*

Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended effective
January 1, 2008.

Filed herewith. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective
December 1, 2009.

Filed herewith. 

10(g)*

Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(f) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2007. 

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and
Deferral Plan, effective February 24, 2009.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2009. 

Amendments to Directors Stock Compensation
and Deferral Plan, effective September 23, 2008.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2008. 

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation
and Deferral Plan, effective January 22, 2008.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(f) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2007. 

Action of Governance and Nominating Committee
Increasing Amount of Formula Stock and Option Awards
Under Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan,
effective January 1, 2007.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(f) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2006. 

10(h)*

1990 Director Option Plan for directors of the former
Wells Fargo.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(c) to the former Wells Fargo s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1997. 

10(i)*

1987 Director Option Plan for directors of the former
Wells Fargo.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
A to the former Wells Fargo s Proxy
Statement filed March 10, 1995. 

Amendment to 1987 Director Option Plan,
effective September 16, 1997.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10 to the former Wells Fargo s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended
September 30, 1997. 

25 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 
       
     Location 

10(j)*

Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors
of the former Norwest.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(c) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 1999. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan for
Non-Employee Directors, effective November 1, 2000.

Filed as paragraph (4) of Exhibit
10(ff) to the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2000. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan for
Non-Employee Directors, effective January 1, 2004.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(a) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2003. 

10(k)*

Directors  Stock Deferral Plan for directors of the
former Norwest.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(d) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 1999. 

Amendment to Directors  Stock Deferral Plan,
effective November 1, 2000.

Filed as paragraph (5) of Exhibit
10(ff) to the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2000. 

Amendment to Directors  Stock Deferral Plan,
effective January 1, 2004.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(c) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2003. 

10(l)*

Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan for directors of
the former Norwest.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(e) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 1999. 

Amendment to Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan,
effective November 1, 2000.

Filed as paragraph (6) of Exhibit
10(ff) to the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2000. 

Amendment to Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan,
effective January 1, 2004.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(b) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2003. 

10(m)*

Deferral Plan for Directors of the former Wells Fargo.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(b) to the former Wells Fargo s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1997. 

Amendment to Deferral Plan, effective January 1, 2004.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(d) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2003. 

10(n)*

Supplemental 401(k) Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(c) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed May 4,
2009. 

10(o)*

Supplemental Cash Balance Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(b) to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed May 4,
2009. 

26 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 
       
     Location 

10(p)*

Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(f) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1990. 

Amendment to Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(g) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1992. 

10(q)*

Agreement, dated July 11, 2001, between the
Company and Howard I. Atkins.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10 to the Company s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2001. 

10(r)*

Agreement between the Company and Mark C. Oman, dated
May 7, 1999.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(y) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1999. 

Amendment No. 1 to Agreement between the Company and
Mark C. Oman, effective December 29, 2008.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(q) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2008. 

10(s)*

Description of Relocation Program.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(y) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2003. 

10(t)*

Description of Executive Financial Planning Program.

Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(w) to the Company s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2004. 

10(u)

PartnerShares Stock Option Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(x) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2004. 

Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan,
effective August 1, 2005.

Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(c) to the Company s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended September 30,
2005. 

Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan,
effective August 4, 2006.

Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10(c) to the Company s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended September 30,
2006. 

Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan,
effective January 1, 2007.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(g) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2007. 

Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan,
effective January 22, 2008.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(v) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2007. 

10(v)*

Agreement, dated July 26, 2002, between the Company
and Richard D. Levy, including a description of his
executive transfer bonus.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(d) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2002. 

10(w)

Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for
Independent Contractors.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(x) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2007. 

27 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 
       
     Location 

10(w)

Amendment to Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan
for Independent Contractors, effective January 1,
2009.

Filed herewith. 

10(x)*

Description of Chairman/CEO Post-Retirement Policy.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(w) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2008. 

10(y)*

Description of Non-Employee Director Equity
Compensation Program.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(x) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2008. 

10(z)*

Employment Agreement, dated December 30, 2008,
between the Company and David M. Carroll.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(y) to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2008. 

10(aa)*

Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Deferred
Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
Directors.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(f) to Wachovia
Corporation s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008. 

Amendment to Amended and Restated Wachovia
Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for
Non-Employee Directors, effective June 1, 2009.

Filed herewith. 

10(bb)*

Wachovia Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(d) to Wachovia
Corporation s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1997. 

10(cc)*

Wachovia Corporation Supplemental Executive
Long-Term Disability Plan, as amended and
restated.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(99) to Wachovia Corporation s
Current Report on Form 8-K
filed January 5, 2005. 

10(dd)*

Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Elective
Deferral Plan (as amended and restated
effective January 1, 2009).

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(a) to Wachovia
Corporation s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008. 

10(ee)*

Wachovia Corporation 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as
amended.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(j) to Wachovia
Corporation s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001. 

10(ff)*

Employment Agreement between Wachovia Corporation
and David M. Carroll.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(m) to Wachovia
Corporation s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2004. 

Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement between
Wachovia Corporation and David M. Carroll.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(a) to Wachovia
Corporation s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed December 22, 2005. 

Amendment No. 2 to Employment Agreement between
Wachovia Corporation and David M. Carroll.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(h) to Wachovia
Corporation s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008. 

28 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 
       
     Location 

10(gg)*

Wachovia Corporation 2001 Stock Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(v) to Wachovia
Corporation s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2001. 

10(hh)*

Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(gg) to Wachovia
Corporation s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2002. 

10(ii)*

Amendment 2007-1 to Wachovia Corporation Savings
Restoration Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(b) to Wachovia
Corporation s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed December
20, 2007. 

Amendment 2008-1 to Wachovia Corporation Savings
Restoration Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(c) to Wachovia
Corporation s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008. 

10(jj)*

Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation
Savings Restoration Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(b) to Wachovia
Corporation s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008. 

10(kk)*

Wachovia Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10) to Wachovia
Corporation s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
March 31, 2003. 

10(ll)*

Form of stock award agreement for Executive Officers
of Wachovia Corporation, including David
M. Carroll.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(ss) to Wachovia
Corporation s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2004. 

10(mm)*

Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation 2003
Stock Incentive Plan.

Incorporated by reference to
Appendix E to Wachovia
Corporation s
Registration Statement on Form
S-4 (Reg. No. 333-134656)
filed on July 24, 2006. 

Amendment to Amended and Restated Wachovia
Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive Plan, effective
February 24, 2009.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(b) to the Company s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2009. 

10(nn)*

Form of Split-Dollar Life Insurance Termination
Agreement between Wachovia Corporation and
David M. Carroll.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(hh) to Wachovia
Corporation s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2003. 

10(oo)*

Agreement between Wachovia Corporation and Robert K.
Steel.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10) to Wachovia Corporation s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed
July 10, 2008. 

10(pp)*

Stock Award Letter between Wachovia Corporation
and Robert K. Steel.

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(a) to Wachovia
Corporation s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2008. 

29 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 
       
     Location 

12(a)

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges:

Filed herewith. 

12(b)

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges
and Preferred Dividends:

Filed herewith. 

13

2009 Annual Report to Stockholders,
pages 33 through 186.

Filed herewith. 

21

Subsidiaries of the Company.

Filed herewith. 

23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm.

Filed herewith. 

24

Powers of Attorney.

Filed herewith. 

31(a)

Certification of principal executive officer pursuant
to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Filed herewith. 

31(b)

Certification of principal financial officer pursuant
to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Filed herewith. 

32(a)

Certification of Periodic Financial Report by Chief
Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and 18 U.S.C.   1350.

Furnished herewith. 

32(b)

Certification of Periodic Financial Report by Chief
Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and 18 U.S.C.   1350.

Furnished herewith. 

99(a)

Certification of principal executive officer pursuant
to Section 111(b)(4) of the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008.

Furnished herewith. 

99(b)

Certification of principal financial officer pursuant
to Section 111(b)(4) of the Emergency Economic
Stabilization Act of 2008.

Furnished herewith. 

30 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 
       
     Description 
       
     Location 

101**

Pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T,
the following financial information from
the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the period ended December 31, 2009, is
formatted in XBRL interactive
data files: (i) Consolidated Statement
of Income for
each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 2009; (ii) Consolidated
Balance Sheet at December 31, 2009, and
December 31, 2008; (iii) Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Equity and
Comprehensive Income for each of the years
in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2009; (iv) Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows for each of the
years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2009; and (v) Notes to
Financial Statements, tagged as blocks of
text.

Furnished herewith. 

31 

<EX-10.A>
 2
 f54129exv10wa.htm
 EX-10.A

exv10wa 

Exhibit 10(a) 

FORM OF PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT 
WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 

Name: 

Grant Date:  

I.D. Number: 

Target Award Number  

of Performance Shares:  

1. 
       
      Award.  Wells Fargo   Company (the  Company ) has awarded you Performance Shares to
provide an incentive for you to remain in the Company s employment and provide valuable
services to the Company. The target number of Performance Shares ( Target Award Number )
awarded you is set forth above. The Target Award Number shall be adjusted upward or
downward based on Company performance as set forth on Exhibit A. The number of
Performance Shares that you will receive under this Award Agreement, after giving effect
to such adjustment, is referred to herein as the  Final Award Number.  Each Performance
Share entitles you to receive one share of Wells Fargo   Company common stock ( Common
Stock ) contingent upon earning such Performance Share based on Company performance set
forth on Exhibit A, vesting as set forth in paragraph 2 and subject to the other terms
and conditions set forth in the Company s Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the
 Plan ) and this Award Agreement. 

2. 
       
      Vesting.  Except as otherwise provided in this Award Agreement, the Final Award
Number of Performance Shares will vest in full on the Determination Date as set forth on
Exhibit A. Shares of Common Stock will be issued to you or, in case of your death, your
Beneficiary determined in accordance with the Plan. You will have no rights as a
stockholder of the Company with respect to your Performance Shares until settlement.
However, you may be entitled to dividend equivalents as set forth in paragraph 4. Upon
vesting, Performance Shares will be settled and distributed in shares of Common Stock
except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this Award Agreement. 

3. 
       
      Termination.  

(a) 
       
     If prior to  insert end of Performance Cycle or other applicable date  you cease to
be an Employee due to your death or  your involuntary Separation from Service under the
Company s Extended Absence Policy in connection with a Disability as defined in paragraph
12 below ( Separation from Service in connection with a Disability )   you incur a
Disability , the Target Award Number of Performance Shares awarded hereby (and any
Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will
immediately vest upon your date of death or such  involuntary Separation from Service in
connection with a Disability   Disability . If you cease to be an Employee due to your
death or  your involuntary Separation from Service in connection with a Disability   you
incur a Disability  on or after  end of Performance Cycle or other applicable date  and
prior to the Determination Date, the Final Award Number of Performance Shares under this
Award Agreement (and any Performance Shares granted with respect to dividend equivalents
as provided below) will vest as of the Determination Date as set forth on Exhibit A.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the accelerated vesting set forth in this paragraph 3(a)
shall occur only if you at all times since the Grant Date comply with the terms of the
attached Wells Fargo Agreement Regarding Trade Secrets, Confidential Information, and
Non-Solicitation. 

(b) 
       
      If you cease to be an Employee due to your Retirement any time prior to the
vesting date indicated above, the Final Award Number of Performance Shares awarded hereby
(and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will
vest upon the scheduled vesting date as set forth in paragraph 2 above provided that
beginning immediately after you cease to be an Employee and continuing until the vesting
date you satisfy each of the following conditions ( vesting conditions ): (i) you comply
with the terms of the attached Wells Fargo Agreement Regarding Trade Secrets,
Confidential Information, and Non-Solicitation, (ii) you do not express any derogatory or
damaging statements about the Company or any Affiliate, the management or the board of
directors of the Company or any Affiliate, the products, services or the business
condition of the Company or any Affiliate in any public way or to anyone who could make
those statements public, and (iii) you do not perform services as an officer, director,
employee, consultant or otherwise for any business which is in competition with any line
of business of the Company or any Affiliate for which you had executive responsibilities
while you were employed by the Company or any Affiliate (including predecessors thereof)
and which does business in any location in the geographic footprint of the Company or any
Affiliate in which you had executive responsibilities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
you die following 

your Retirement and have satisfied the vesting conditions set forth above through your
date of death, any Performance Shares will vest in accordance with paragraph 3(a) as of
the date of your death.  

(c) 
       
     If you cease to be an Employee other than due to your death,  your involuntary
Separation from Service in connection with a Disability   your Disability , or your
Retirement or you fail to satisfy any vesting condition in accordance with paragraph
3(b), any then unvested Performance Shares awarded hereby (including any Performance
Shares granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately
terminate without notice to you and will be forfeited. 

4. 
       
      Dividend Equivalents.   During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on
the date the Performance Shares vest or terminate, whichever occurs first, if the Company
pays a dividend on the Common Stock, you will automatically receive, as of the payment
date for such dividend, dividend equivalents in the form of additional Performance Shares
based on the amount or number of shares that would have been paid on the Final Award
Number of Performance Shares (or Target Award Number of Performance Shares as applicable
under paragraph 3(a)) had they been issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of
the record date and, if a cash dividend, the closing price of the Common Stock on the New
York Stock Exchange as of the dividend payment date. You will also automatically receive
dividend equivalents with respect to the additional Performance Shares, to be granted in
the same manner. Performance Shares granted with respect to dividend equivalents will be
subject to the same vesting schedule and conditions as the underlying Performance Shares
and will be distributed in shares of Common Stock when, and if, the underlying
Performance Shares are settled and distributed.   During the period beginning on the
Grant Date and ending on the date the Performance Shares vest or terminate, whichever
occurs first, if the Company pays a cash dividend on the Common Stock, you will receive
cash payments based on and payable at approximately the same time as the cash dividend
that would have been paid on the  Target Award Number of Performance Shares  had they
been issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the record date for the
dividend. Cash payments will be net of federal, state and local withholding taxes. 
 During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on the date the Performance
Shares vest or terminate, whichever occurs first, if the Company pays a cash dividend on
the Common Stock, you will not be entitled to receive any dividend equivalents or cash
payments in respect of such dividend.  

5. 
       
      Tax Withholding.  The Company will withhold from the number of shares of Common
Stock otherwise issuable hereunder (including with respect to dividend equivalents) a
number of shares necessary to satisfy any and all applicable federal, state, local and
foreign tax withholding obligations and employment-related tax requirements. Shares will
be valued at their Fair Market Value as of the date of vesting. 

6. 
       
      Nontransferable.  Unless the Committee provides otherwise, (i) no rights under this
Award will be assignable or transferable, and neither you nor your Beneficiary will have
any power to anticipate, alienate, dispose of, pledge or encumber any rights under this
Award, and (ii) the rights and the benefits of this Award may be exercised and received
during your lifetime only by you or your legal representative. 

7. 
       
      Other Restrictions; Amendment.  The issuance of Common Stock hereunder is subject
to compliance by the Company and you with all applicable legal requirements applicable
thereto, including tax withholding obligations, and with all applicable regulations of
any stock exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed at the time of issuance.
Subject to paragraph 12 below, the Committee may, in its sole discretion and without your
consent, reduce, delay vesting, modify, revoke, cancel, impose additional conditions and
restrictions on or recover all or a portion of this Award if the Committee deems it
necessary or advisable to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations. This Award
is subject to any applicable recoupment or  clawback  policies of the Company, as amended
from time to time, and any applicable recoupment or clawback requirements imposed under
laws, rules and regulations. 

8. 
       
       Hold Through Retirement Provision.  As a condition to receiving this Award, you
agree to hold, while employed by the Company or any Affiliate and for a period of one
year after your Retirement, shares of Common Stock equal to at least 50% of the after-tax
shares of Common Stock (assuming a 50% tax rate) acquired upon vesting and settlement of
this Award.  

9. 
       
      Additional Provisions.  This Award Agreement is subject to the provisions of the
Plan. Capitalized terms not defined in this Award Agreement or by reference to another
document are used as defined in the Plan. If the Plan and this Award Agreement are
inconsistent, the provisions of the Plan will govern. Interpretations of the Plan and
this Award Agreement by the Committee are binding on you and the Company. 

10. 
       
      No Employment Agreement.  Neither the award to you of the Performance Shares nor
the delivery to you of this Award Agreement or any other document relating to the
Performance Shares will confer on you the right to continued employment with the Company
or any Affiliate. 

11. 
       
      Six-month Delay . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or this Award
Agreement to the contrary, if, upon your Separation from Service (as defined in paragraph
12 below) with the Company for any reason, the Company determines that you are a
 specified employee  as defined in Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, and the applicable Treasury regulations or other binding guidance thereunder
( Section 409A ) and in accordance with the definition contained in the Wells Fargo  
Company Supplemental 401(k) Plan, as in effect on the Grant Date of this Award, your
Performance Shares, if subject to settlement upon your Separation from Service and if
required pursuant to Section 409A, will not settle before the date that is the first
business day following the six-month anniversary of such termination, or, if earlier,
upon your death. 

12. 
       
      Section 409A . This Award is intended to comply with the requirements of Section
409A. Accordingly, all provisions included in this Award, or incorporated by reference,
will be interpreted and administered in accordance with that intent. If any provision of
the Plan would otherwise conflict with or frustrate this intent, that provision will be
interpreted and deemed amended or limited so as to avoid the conflict; provided, however,
that the Company makes no representation that the Award is exempt from or complies with
Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the
Award. For purposes of this Award, the term  Separation from Service  is determined by
the Company in accordance with Section 409A and in accordance with the definition
contained in the Wells Fargo   Company Supplemental 401(k) Plan, as in effect on the
Grant Date of this Award. For purposes of this Award, you will be considered to have a
 Disability  if  you are receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less
than three months under the Company s long term disability plan as a result of any
medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in
death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months 
 alternative definition . 

The Company has awarded you the Performance Shares in accordance with the foregoing terms and
conditions and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. By signing below, you hereby agree
to the foregoing terms and conditions of this Award and acknowledge that you have read, understand
and received a copy of this Award Agreement (including Exhibit A attached hereto) and that you will
abide by the terms of this Award Agreement and the Plan.

Name of Executive 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 
FORM OF PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT 

Exhibit A to Performance Share Award Agreement  

This Exhibit A sets forth the manner in which the Final Award Number will be determined.

Definitions 

Capitalized terms used but not defined herein (including, but not limited to, Return on Realized
Common Equity) shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Award Agreement.
In addition, the following terms used in the text of this Exhibit A shall have the meanings set
forth below:

Average Return on Realized Common Equity  means for each of the Financial Performance Peer
Group Companies the sum of such company s Return on Realized Common Equity for each of the
fiscal years corresponding with or ending in calendar year  insert applicable years , which
sum is then divided by  applicable number . 

Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking  means the rank of the Company s Average
Return on Realized Common Equity relative to the Average Return on Realized Common Equity
achieved by each of the other Financial Performance Peer Group Companies. 

Final Award Number Percentage  means the  Final Award Number Percentage  determined in
accordance with the Determination of Final Award Number Section of this Exhibit A. 

Financial Performance Peer Group Companies  means those companies which comprise the  KBW
Bank Sector Index  as of  insert applicable date . 

Determination of Final Award Number  

Your Target Award Number will be adjusted upward or downward depending on the Company Return on
Realized Common Equity Ranking in accordance with the chart below to arrive at your Final Award
Number of Performance Shares. The Final Award Number of Performance Shares will be determined by
multiplying (i) the Final Award Number Percentage by (ii) your Target Award Number and then adding
to such product additional Performance Shares granted with respect to dividend equivalents as
provided in paragraph 4. In the event the Final Award Number is not a whole number, then the Final
Award Number shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number.

Company Return on Realized  
       
      Final Award Number  
       
      Final Award Number of  

Common Equity Ranking  
       
      Percentage  
       
      Performance Shares  

insert applicable % or % range 

insert applicable % 

insert applicable %  x Target Award Number 

insert applicable % or % range 

insert applicable % 

insert applicable %  x Target Award Number 

insert applicable % or % range 

insert applicable % 

insert applicable %  x Target Award Number 

If the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is between  insert applicable range , the
Final Award Number Percentage shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between  insert
applicable range  and the Final Award Number of Performance Shares shall be interpolated on a
corresponding straight-line basis between  insert applicable range  of the Target Award Number.

If the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is between  insert applicable range , the
Final Award Number Percentage shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between  insert
applicable range  and the Final Award Number of Performance Shares shall be interpolated on a
corresponding straight-line basis between  insert applicable range  of the Target Award Number.

If the Company does not have the lowest Average Return on Realized Common Equity among the
Performance Group Companies and the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is less than
 insert applicable percentage , the Final Award Percentage shall be interpolated on a straight-line
basis between  insert applicable range  and the Final Award Number of Performance Shares Earned
shall be interpolated on a corresponding straight-line basis between  insert applicable range  of
the Target Award Number.   If the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is less than
 insert applicable percentage , the Final Award Number Percentage and the

Final Award Number of
Performance Shares shall be  insert applicable number. 

In no event shall the Final Award Number Percentage be greater than  insert applicable percentage 
nor shall the Final Award Number of Performance Shares be greater than  insert applicable
percentage  of the Target Award Number (plus dividend equivalents pursuant to paragraph 4 of the
Award Agreement). 

insert alternative method(s) for determining the Final Award Number, including additional or
alternative Qualifying Performance Criteria as defined in the Plan 

Committee Determination 

The Committee shall determine the Final Award Number of Performance Shares in calendar year  insert
applicable year  no later than  insert applicable date  and the date the Committee makes such
determination is referred to in this Award as the  Determination Date.  The Committee shall make
all determinations in calculating the Final Award Number of Performance Shares and the Committee s
determination shall be binding.

Wells Fargo Agreement 
Regarding Trade Secrets, Confidential Information, and Non-Solicitation 

I. Introduction 

In consideration for the Performance Share Award granted to me by Wells Fargo   Company on  insert
grant date , on the terms and conditions contained in the Performance Share Award Agreement
( Performance Share Award Agreement ), I acknowledge that the nature of my employment with and
performance of services for Wells Fargo   Company and its affiliates (the  Company ) permits me to
have access to certain of its trade secrets and confidential and proprietary information and that
such information is, and shall always remain, the sole property of the Company. Any unauthorized
disclosure or use of this information would be wrongful and would cause the Company irreparable
harm. Therefore, I agree as follows:

II. Trade Secrets and Confidential Information 

During the course of my employment I have acquired knowledge of the Company s Trade Secrets and
other proprietary information relating to its business, business methods, personnel, and customers
(collectively referenced as  Confidential Information ).  Trade Secrets  are defined as
information, including but not limited to, a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device,
method, technique, or process, that: (1) derives independent economic value, actual or potential,
from not being generally known to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic value from
its disclosure or use and (2) is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances
to maintain its secrecy. The Company s Trade Secrets include, but are not limited to, the
following:

the names, address, and contact information of the Company s customers and prospective
customers, as well any other personal or financial information relating to any customer or
prospect, including, without limitation, account numbers, balances, portfolios, maturity
dates, loans, policies, investment activities and objectives; 

any information concerning the Company s operations, including without limitation,
information related to its methods, services, pricing, finances, practices, strategies,
business plans, agreements, decision-making, systems, technology, policies, procedures,
marketing, sales, techniques and processes; 

any other proprietary and/or confidential information relating to the Company s
customers, employees, products, services, sales, technologies, or business affairs. 

I understand that Records of the Company also constitute Confidential Information and that my
obligation to maintain the confidentiality thereof continues at all times during and after my
employment.  Records  include, but are not limited to, original, duplicated, computerized,
memorized, handwritten or any other form of information, whether contained in materials provided to
me by the Company, or by any institution acquired by the Company, or compiled by me in any form or
manner including information in documents or electronic devices, such as software, flowcharts,
graphs, spreadsheets, resource manuals, videotapes, calendars, day timers, planners, rolodexes, or
telephone directories maintained in personal computers, laptop computers, personal digital
assistants or any other device. These records do not become any less confidential or proprietary to
the Company because I may commit some of them to memory or because I may otherwise maintain them
outside of the Company s offices.

I agree that Confidential Information of the Company is to be used by me solely and exclusively for
the purpose of conducting business on behalf of the Company. I am expected to keep such
Confidential Information confidential and not to divulge or disclose this information except for

that purpose. Upon my retirement, I agree to immediately return to the Company all Records and
Confidential Information, including information maintained by me in my office, personal electronic
devices, and/or at home.

III. Non-Solicitation of Company s Employees and Customers 

I agree that for the period beginning on my retirement date with Company through the Determination
Date as defined in the Performance Share Award Agreement ( the Non-Solicitation Period ), I will
not do any of the following, either directly or indirectly or through associates, agents, or
employees:

a. 
       
     solicit, recruit or promote the solicitation or recruitment of any employee or
consultant of the Company for the purpose of encouraging that employee or consultant to
leave the Company s employ or sever an agreement for services; or 

b. 
       
     solicit, participate in or promote the solicitation of any of the Company s
clients, customers, or prospective customers whose identity became known to me during
my employment with the Company and/or regarding whom I received Confidential
Information, for the purpose of providing products or services that are in competition
with the Company s products or services. 

This limitation is not intended to limit the Company s right to prevent misappropriation of its
Confidential Information beyond the Non-Solicitation Period.

IV. Partial Invalidity 

If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such provision shall be enforced to the greatest extent permitted and the remainder
of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

V. Choice of Law/Integration/Survival 

This Agreement and any dispute, controversy or claim which arises under or relates in any way to it
shall be governed by the law of the state where the incident(s) giving rise to the dispute or claim
arose. This Agreement supersedes any prior written or verbal agreements pertaining to the subject
matter herein, and is intended to be a final expression of our Agreement with respect only to the
terms contained herein. There may be no modification of this Agreement except in writing signed by
me and an executive officer of the Company. This Agreement shall survive my employment by the
Company, inure to the benefit of successors and assigns of the Company, and is binding upon my
heirs and legal representatives.

Acknowledgment 

I acknowledge that I have read, understand, and received a copy of this Agreement and will abide by
its terms. 

Name of Executive 

Date

FORM OF RESTRICTED SHARE RIGHTS AWARD AGREEMENT 
WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 

Name: 

Grant Date: 

insert grant date  

I.D. Number: 

Number of RSRs: 

insert no. of RSRs  

1. 
       
      Award.  To encourage your continued employment with the Company or any Affiliate
and to motivate you to help the Company increase stockholder value over the long term,
Wells Fargo   Company (the  Company ) has awarded you the number of Restricted Share
Rights indicated above (the  Award ). Each Restricted Share Right entitles you to
receive one share of Wells Fargo   Company common stock ( Common Stock ) contingent upon
vesting and subject to the other terms and conditions set forth in the Company s
Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) and this Award Agreement. 

2. 
       
      Vesting.  Except as otherwise provided in this Award Agreement, and subject to the
Company s right to recoup this Award as provided in this Award Agreement, the Restricted
Share Rights will vest according to the following schedule: 

insert vesting schedule 

Shares of Common Stock will be issued to you or, in case of your death, your Beneficiary
determined in accordance with the Plan. Except for dividend equivalents as provided below, you
will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to your Restricted Share Rights
until settlement. Upon the vesting date, Restricted Share Rights will be settled and
distributed in shares of Common Stock except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this Award
Agreement. 

3. 
       
      Termination.  

(b) 
       
     If you cease to be an Employee due to your death any then unvested Restricted Share
Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend
equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest upon your date of death and will be
settled and distributed to your Beneficiary in shares of Common Stock on  insert date of
distribution . If  insert date of distribution  is not a business day, the first business
day following that date. 

For Retirement-eligible executives  

(b) 
       
     If you satisfy the definition of Retirement in the Plan on the Grant Date of the Award
or thereafter during the term of the Award and then have a Separation from Service as
defined in paragraph  11  below, any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby
(including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents as
provided below) will vest upon the scheduled vesting date as set forth in paragraph 2
above  provided, however, if you die following Retirement or have an involuntary
Separation from Service as described in paragraph 3(c) below, any then unvested Restricted
Share Right will vest 

immediately . 

(c) 
       
     If you have an involuntary Separation from Service under the Company s Extended
Absence Policy in connection with a Disability as defined in paragraph  11  below, any
then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right
granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest and
will be settled and distributed to you in shares of Common Stock within 90 days of your
Separation from Service. 

(d) 
       
     If you incur a Separation from Service other than due to your death, Retirement or
involuntary Separation from Service under the Company s Extended Absence Policy in
connection with your Disability, any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby
(including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents as
provided below) will immediately terminate without notice to you and will be forfeited. 

For executives not Retirement-eligible   

(c) 
       
     If you have an involuntary termination of employment under the Company s Extended
Absence Policy in connection with a Disability as defined below, any then unvested
Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with
respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest and will be
settled and distributed to you in shares of Common Stock no later than March 1 of the year
immediately following the year in which your employment has been terminated. For purposes
of this Award, you will be considered to a have a  Disability  if you are receiving income
replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under the Company s long
term disability plan as a result of any medically determinable physical or mental
impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a
continuous period of not less than 12 months. 

(d) 
       
     If you cease to be an Employee other than due to your death or involuntary termination
under the Company s Extended Absence Policy in connection with a Disability, any then
unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right
granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately terminate
without notice to you and will be forfeited. 

Alternative provision for certain Restricted Share Rights Awards to Retirement-eligible
executives  

(c) 
       
     If you incur a Separation from Service other than due to your death or Retirement, any
then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right
granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately terminate
without notice to you and will be forfeited. 

Alternative provision for certain Restricted Share Rights Awards to executives not
Retirement-eligible  

(b) 
       
     If you cease to be an Employee other than due to your death, any then unvested
Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with
respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately terminate without
notice to you and will be forfeited. 

4. 
       
      Dividend Equivalents.  During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on
the date the Restricted Share Rights vest or terminate, whichever occurs first, if the
Company pays a dividend on the Common Stock,  you will automatically receive, as of the
payment date for such dividend, dividend equivalents in the form of additional Restricted
Share Rights based on the amount or number of shares that would have been paid on the
Restricted Share Rights had they been issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of
the record date and, if a cash dividend, the closing price of the Common Stock on the New
York Stock Exchange as of the dividend payment date. You will also automatically receive
dividend equivalents with respect to the additional Restricted Share Rights, to be
granted in the same manner. Restricted Share Rights granted with respect to dividend
equivalents will be subject to the same vesting schedule and conditions as the underlying
Restricted Share Rights, including the Company s right of recoupment, and will be
distributed in shares of Common Stock when, and if, the underlying Restricted Share
Rights are settled and distributed.  you will not receive dividend equivalents in the
form of additional Restricted Share Rights.  if such dividend is a cash dividend, you
will automatically receive, as of the payment date for such dividend, a cash payment
based on the amount or number of shares that would have been paid on the Restricted Share
Rights had they been issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the record date,
subject to applicable tax withholding requirements.  

5. 
       
      Tax Withholding.  The Company will withhold from the number of shares of Common
Stock otherwise issuable hereunder (including with respect to dividend equivalents) a
number of shares necessary to satisfy any and all applicable federal, state, local and
foreign tax withholding obligations and employment-related tax requirements. Shares will
be valued at their Fair Market Value as of the date of vesting.  In addition, the
Company may withhold from your other compensation any and all applicable federal, state,
local, foreign and employment-related taxes in the event all or a portion of the
Restricted Share Rights are treated as taxable prior to or other than on the vesting
dates set forth in paragraph 2 above and the number of shares of Common Stock otherwise
issuable is insufficient to satisfy such tax withholding obligations and
employment-related tax requirements.  

6. 
       
      Nontransferable.  Unless the Committee provides otherwise, (i) no rights under this
Award will be assignable or transferable, and neither you nor your Beneficiary will have
any power to anticipate, alienate, dispose of, pledge or encumber any rights under this
Award, and (ii) the rights and the benefits of this Award may be exercised and received
during your lifetime only by you or your legal representative. 

7. 
       
      Other Restrictions; Amendment.  The issuance of Common Stock hereunder is subject
to compliance by the Company and you with all applicable legal requirements applicable
thereto, including tax withholding obligations, and with all applicable regulations of
any stock exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed at the time of issuance.
Subject to paragraph       below, the Committee may, in its sole discretion and without
your consent, reduce, delay vesting, modify, revoke, cancel, impose additional conditions
and restrictions on or recover all or a portion of this Award if the Committee deems it
necessary

or advisable to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations. This Award is subject
to any applicable recoupment or  clawback  policies of the Company, as amended from time
to time, and any applicable recoupment or clawback requirements imposed under laws, rules
and regulations. 

8. 
       
       Restrictive Covenants.  In consideration of the terms of this Award and your
access to Confidential Information, you agree to the restrictive covenants and associated
remedies as set forth below, which exist independently of and in addition to any
obligation to which you are subject under the terms of the Wells Fargo Agreement
Regarding Trade Secrets, Confidential Information, Non-Solicitation, And Assignment Of
Inventions (the  TSA ): 

(a) 
       
      Trade Secrets and Confidential Information.  During the course of your employment, you
will acquire knowledge of the Company s and/or any Affiliate s (collectively  WFC ) Trade
Secrets and other proprietary information relating to its business, business methods,
personnel, and customers (collectively,  Confidential Information ).  Trade Secrets  means
WFC s confidential information, which has an economic value in being secret and which WFC
has taken steps to keep secret and you understand and agree that Trade Secrets include, but
are not limited to confidentially maintained client and customer lists and information, and
confidentially maintained prospective client and customer lists and information. You agree
that Confidential Information of WFC is to be used solely and exclusively for the purpose
of conducting business on behalf of WFC. You agree to keep such Confidential Information
confidential and will not divulge, use or disclose this information except for that
purpose. In addition, you agree that, both during and after your employment, you will not
remove, share, disseminate or otherwise use WFC s Trade Secrets to directly or indirectly
solicit, participate in or promote the solicitation of any of WFC s clients, customers, or
prospective customers for the purpose of providing products or services that are in
competition with WFC s products or services. 

(b) 
       
      Assignment of Inventions.  You acknowledge and agree that all inventions and all
worldwide intellectual property rights that you make, conceive or first reduce to practice
(alone or in conjunction with others) during your employment with WFC are owned by WFC that
(1) relate at the time of conception or reduction to practice of the invention to WFC s
business, or actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development of WFC whether or
not you made, conceived or first reduced the inventions to practice during normal working
hours; and (2) involve the use of any time, material, information, or facility of WFC. 

(c) 
       
      Non-solicitation.  If you are currently subject to a TSA, you shall continue to be
bound by the terms of the TSA. If you are not currently subject to a TSA, you agree to the
following: 

For a period of one (1) year immediately following termination of your employment for any
reason, you will not do any of the following, either directly or indirectly or through
associates, agents, or employees: 

i. 
       
     solicit, recruit or promote the solicitation or recruitment of any
employee or consultant of WFC for the purpose of encouraging that employee or
consultant to leave WFC s employ or sever an agreement for 

services; or 

ii. 
       
     to the fullest extent enforceable under the applicable state law, solicit,
participate in or promote the solicitation of any of WFC s clients, customers, or
prospective customers with whom you had Material Contact and/or regarding whom you
received Confidential Information, for the purpose of providing products or services
that are in competition with WFC s products or services.  Material Contact  means
interaction between you and the customer, client or prospective customer within one
(1) year prior to your last day as a team member which takes place to manage, service
or further the business relationship. 

The one-year limitation is not intended to limit WFC s right to prevent misappropriation of
its Confidential Information beyond the one-year period. 

(d) 
       
      Violation of TSA or Restrictive Covenants.  If you breach any of the terms of a TSA
and/or the restrictive covenants above, all unvested Restricted Share Rights shall be
immediately and irrevocably forfeited. For any Restricted Share Rights that vested within
one (1) year prior to the termination of your employment with WFC or at any time after your
termination, you shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse WFC an amount having a
value equal to the aggregate fair market value (determined as of the date of vesting) of
such vested shares. This paragraph does not constitute the Company s exclusive remedy for
violation of your restrictive covenant obligations, and WFC may seek any additional legal
or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violation.  

Note: Award Agreements may not contain Restrictive Covenants paragraph   

9. 
       
      No Employment Agreement.  Neither the award to you of the Restricted Share Rights
nor the delivery to you of this Award Agreement or any other document relating to the
Restricted Share Rights will confer on you the right to continued employment with the
Company or any Affiliate. You understand that your employment with the Company or any
Affiliate is  at will  and nothing in this document changes, alters or modifies your  at
will  status or your obligation to comply with all policies, procedures and rules of the
Company, as they may be adopted or amended from time to time. 

For Retirement-eligible executives  

10. 
       
      Six-month Delay . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or this Award Agreement
to the contrary, if, upon your Separation from Service with the Company for any reason,
the Company determines that you are a  specified employee  as defined in Section 409A of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended and the applicable Treasury regulations or
other binding guidance thereunder ( Section 409A ) and in accordance with the definition
contained in the Wells Fargo   Company Supplemental 401(k) Plan as in effect on the Grant
Date of this Award, your Restricted Share Rights, if subject to settlement upon your
Separation from Service and if required pursuant to Section 409A, will not settle before
the date that is the first business day following the six-month anniversary of such
termination, or, if earlier, upon your death. 

For Retirement-eligible executives  

11. 
       
      Section 409A . This Award is intended to comply with the requirements of Section
409A. Accordingly, all provisions included in this Award, or incorporated by reference,
will be interpreted and administered in accordance with that intent. If any provision of
the Plan would otherwise conflict with or frustrate this intent, that provision will be
interpreted and deemed amended or limited so as to avoid the conflict; provided, however,
that the Company makes no representation that the Award is exempt from or complies with
Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the
Award. For purposes of this Award, the term  Separation from Service  is determined by
the Company in accordance with Section 409A and the regulations thereunder and in
accordance with the definition contained in the Wells Fargo   Company Supplemental 401(k)
Plan, as in effect on the Grant Date of this Award.  For purposes of this Award, you
will be considered to have a  Disability  if you are receiving income replacement
benefits for a period of not less than three months under the Company s long term
disability plan as a result of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment
that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous
period of not less than 12 months.  

For executives not Retirement-eligible  

Section 409A . This Award is intended to be exempt from Section 409A of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended and applicable Treasury Regulations or other binding guidance
thereunder ( Section 409A ). Accordingly, all provisions included in this Award, or
incorporated by reference, will be interpreted and administered in accordance with that intent.
Therefore, all Restricted Share Rights will be settled and distributed no later than March 1 of
the year following the year when such Restricted Share Rights vest. If any provision of the
Plan would otherwise conflict with or frustrate this intent, that provision will be interpreted
and deemed amended or limited so as to avoid the conflict; provided, however, that the Company
makes no representation that the Award is exempt from or complies with Section 409A and makes no
undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the Award. Notwithstanding any provision
of the Plan or this Award Agreement to the contrary, if, upon the termination of your service
with the Company for any reason, the Company determines that you are a  specified employee  (as
defined in Section 409A and in accordance with such definition and elections contained in the
Wells Fargo   Company Supplemental 401(k) Plan as in effect on the Grant Date of this Award),
your Restricted Share Rights, if subject to settlement upon such termination and only if
required pursuant to Section 409A (which is not intended), will not settle before the date that
is the first business day following the six-month anniversary of such termination or, if
earlier, upon your death. 

12. 
       
      Hold Through Retirement Provision.  As a condition to receiving this Award, you
agree to hold, while employed by the Company or any Affiliate and for a period of one
year after your Retirement, shares of Common Stock equal to at least 50% of the after-tax
shares of Common Stock (assuming a 50% tax rate) acquired upon vesting and settlement of
this Award. 

13. 
       
      Severability and Judicial Modification.  If any provision of this Award Agreement is
held to be invalid or unenforceable under pertinent state law or otherwise or Wells Fargo
elects not to enforce such restriction, 

including but not limited to paragraph 8(c)ii , the remaining provisions shall remain in
full force and effect and the invalid or unenforceable provision shall be modified only to
the extent necessary to render that provision valid and enforceable to the fullest extent
permitted by law. If the invalid or unenforceable provision cannot be, or is not,
modified, that provision shall be severed from the Award Agreement and all other
provisions shall remain valid and enforceable. 

14. 
       
      Additional Provisions.  This Award Agreement is subject to the provisions of the
Plan. Capitalized terms not defined in this Award Agreement are used as defined in the
Plan. If the Plan and this Award Agreement are inconsistent, the provisions of the Plan
will govern. Interpretations of the Plan and this Award Agreement by the Committee are
binding on you and the Company. 

15. 
       
      Electronic Delivery and Acceptance.  The Company is electronically delivering
documents related to current or future participation in the Plan and is requesting your
consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive
such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through the
current plan administrator s on-line system, or any other on-line system or electronic
means that the Company may decide, in its sole discretion, to use in the future. 

PLEASE NOTE: Receipt of this Award is subject to your electronic signature on the current
plan administrator s website acknowledging and accepting all the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement and the Plan. You must accept the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement on or
before  date . Failure to do so within this time period will result in forfeiture of this Award. 

FORM OF RESTRICTED SHARE RIGHTS AGREEMENT FOR DAVID M. CARROLL 
WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 

1. 
       
      Award.  Wells Fargo   Company (the  Company ) has awarded you the number of
Restricted Share Rights indicated above. Each Restricted Share Right entitles you to
receive one share of Wells Fargo   Company common stock ( Common Stock ) contingent upon
vesting and subject to the other terms and conditions set forth in the Company s
Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) and this Award Agreement. 

2. 
       
      Vesting.  Except as otherwise provided in this Award Agreement, the Restricted
Share Rights will vest according to the following schedule: 

Shares of Common Stock will be issued to you or, in case of your death, your Beneficiary
determined in accordance with the Plan. Except for dividend equivalents as provided
below, you will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to your
Restricted Share Rights until settlement. Upon vesting, Restricted Share Rights will be
settled and distributed in shares of Common Stock except as otherwise provided in the Plan
or this Award Agreement. 

3. 
       
      Termination.  

(e) 
       
     If you cease to be an Employee due to your death or permanent disability (as
determined by the Company), any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby
(including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents as
provided below) will immediately vest upon your date of death or termination of
employment due to permanent disability. 

(f) 
       
     If you cease to be an Employee due to your Retirement any time after the second
anniversary of the date of grant, any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby
(including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents as
provided below) will vest upon the scheduled vesting date as set forth in paragraph 2
above; provided, however, if you die following Retirement, any then unvested Restricted
Share Right will vest immediately. 

(g) 
       
     If you cease to be an Employee other than due to your death or permanent
disability, or your Retirement after the second anniversary of the date of grant, any
then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right
granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately
terminate without notice to you and will be forfeited. 

4. 
       
      Dividend Equivalents.  During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on
the date the Restricted Share Rights vest or terminate, whichever occurs first, if the
Company pays a dividend on the Common Stock, you will automatically receive, as of the
payment date for such dividend, dividend equivalents in the form of additional Restricted
Share Rights based on the amount or number of shares that would have been paid on the
Restricted Share Rights had they been issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of
the record date and, if a cash dividend, the closing price of the Common Stock on the New
York Stock Exchange as of the dividend payment date. You will also automatically receive
dividend equivalents with respect to the additional Restricted Share Rights, to be
granted in the same manner. Restricted Share Rights granted with respect to dividend
equivalents will be subject to the same vesting schedule and conditions as the underlying
Restricted Share Rights and will be distributed in shares of Common Stock when, and if,
the underlying Restricted Share Rights are settled and distributed. 

5. 
       
      Tax Withholding.  The Company will withhold from the number of shares of Common
Stock otherwise issuable hereunder (including with respect to dividend equivalents) a
number of shares necessary to satisfy any and all applicable federal, state, local and
foreign tax withholding obligations and employment-related tax requirements. Shares will
be valued at their Fair Market Value as of the date of vesting. 

6. 
       
      Nontransferable.  Unless the Committee provides otherwise, (i) no rights under this
Award will be assignable or transferable, and neither you nor your Beneficiary will have
any power to anticipate, alienate, dispose of, pledge or encumber any rights under this
Award, and (ii) the rights and the benefits of this Award may be exercised and received
during your lifetime only by you or your legal representative. 

7. 
       
      Other Restrictions; Amendment.  The issuance of Common Stock hereunder is subject
to compliance by the Company and you with all applicable legal requirements applicable
thereto, including tax withholding obligations, and with all applicable regulations of
any stock exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed at the time of issuance. The
Company may delay the issuance of shares of Common Stock hereunder to ensure at the time
of issuance there is a registration statement for the shares in effect under the
Securities Act of 1933. The Committee may, in its sole discretion and without your
consent, reduce, delay vesting, modify, revoke, cancel, impose additional conditions and
restrictions on or recover all or a portion of this Award if the Committee deems it
necessary or advisable to comply with the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008,
as amended from time to time, its implementing regulations and guidance, or other
applicable law or regulation. This Award is subject to any applicable recoupment or
 clawback  policy maintained by the Company from time to time or requirement imposed
under applicable laws, rules and regulations. 

8. 
       
      Hold Through Retirement Provision.  As a condition to receiving this Award, you
agree to hold, while employed by the Company or any Affiliate and for a period of one
year after your Retirement, shares of Common Stock equal to at least 50% of the after-tax
shares of Common Stock (assuming a 50% tax rate) acquired upon vesting and settlement of
this Award. 

9. 
       
      Additional Provisions.  This Award Agreement is subject to the provisions of the
Plan. Capitalized terms not defined in this Award Agreement are used as defined in the
Plan. If the Plan and this Award Agreement are inconsistent, the provisions of the Plan
will govern. Interpretations of the Plan and this Award Agreement by the Committee are
binding on you and the Company. 

10. 
       
      No Employment Agreement.  Neither the award to you of the Restricted Share Rights
nor the delivery to you of this Award Agreement or any other document relating to the
Restricted Share Rights will confer on you the right to continued employment with the
Company or any Affiliate. 

11. 
       
      Six-month Delay . Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or this Award Agreement
to the contrary, if, upon the termination of your service with the Company for any
reason, the Company determines that you are a  specified employee  as defined in Section
409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Section 409A ), your Restricted
Share Rights, if subject to settlement upon such termination, will not settle before the
date that is the first business day following the six-month anniversary of such
termination, or, if earlier, upon your death. This provision only applies if required
pursuant to Section 409A. 

12. 
       
      Section 409A . This Award is intended to comply with the requirements of Section
409A and applicable Treasury Regulations or other binding guidance thereunder.
Accordingly, all provisions included in this Award, or incorporated by reference, will be
interpreted and administered in accordance with that intent. If any provision of the
Plan would otherwise conflict with or frustrate this intent, that provision will be
interpreted and deemed amended or limited so as to avoid the conflict. 

The Company has awarded you the Restricted Share Rights in accordance with the foregoing terms and
conditions and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. By signing below, you hereby agree
to the foregoing terms and conditions of this Award.

David M. Carroll

FORM OF NON-QUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 
WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 

Grant Date: 

insert grant date 

Expiration Date: 

insert expiration date  

Exercise Price: 

insert exercise price  

1.  Grant of Option.  Wells Fargo   Company (the  Company ) has granted to you an option
( Option ) to purchase shares (the  Shares ) of Wells Fargo   Company common stock ( Common Stock )
in the number set forth on the acknowledgement screen for your grant, accessible through Stock
Options Management. The Option is granted subject in all respects to the terms of the Company s
Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ).

2.  Term, Vesting and Exercise of Option.   The term of this Option commences on  insert grant
date  and, except as provided in paragraph 3 below, ends on  insert expiration date ,
provided you are continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate ( Wells Fargo ). If your
employment with Wells Fargo is terminated, the Option may be exercised only as described in
paragraph 3 below.

Except as provided in paragraph 3 below, this Option becomes exercisable ( vests ) according to the
following table provided it has not been terminated before such date in accordance with the
provisions of this Option:

insert vesting schedule 

To exercise all or part of the Option you must complete the exercise in a manner authorized by the
Company and deliver payment as described herein of the exercise price and all applicable
withholding taxes. You must pay the exercise price on the day you exercise the Option (a) in cash,
(b) in whole shares of Common Stock valued at their Fair Market Value, or (c) by delivering
irrevocable instructions to a broker to promptly deliver to the Company the amount of the exercise
price and all applicable withholding taxes (a  cashless exercise ), unless you are an executive
officer of the Company and such cashless exercise is prohibited by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
If Common Stock is used to pay the exercise price ( swap transaction ), the Common Stock used (i)
must have been owned by you for at least six months prior to the date of exercise or purchased by
you in the open market; and (ii) must not have been used in a stock-for-stock swap transaction
within the preceding six months. You shall not have any rights as a stockholder with respect to the
Shares of Common Stock subject to the Option until you have exercised the Option for such Shares. 

For grant recipients who sign Trade Secrets Agreement (see below):  The term of this Option
commences on  insert date of grant  and, except as provided in paragraph 3 below, ends on  insert
expiration date . Except as provided in paragraph 3 below, this Option becomes exercisable
( vests ) in full on  insert vesting date  ( vesting date ) provided that you satisfy each of the
following conditions ( vesting conditions ): (i) you sign the attached Wells Fargo Agreement
Regarding Trade Secrets, Confidential Information, And Non-Solicitation ( Trade Secrets
Agreement  and (ii) after you cease to be an Employee and continuing through the vesting date (A)
you are available on a reasonable basis for consultation with management and to represent the
Company with customers, the community and team members, (B) you comply with terms of the Trade
Secrets Agreement, and (C) you do not perform services as an employee, consultant or otherwise for
a company or firm that is included in the Company s  Peer Group  as such term is defined in the
Company s proxy statement for its 2007 annual stockholders  meeting filed under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act ) and as such term may be updated in the proxy statement for a
subsequent annual stockholders  meeting filed under the Exchange Act. To exercise all or part of
the Option you must complete the exercise in a manner authorized by the Company and deliver payment
as described herein of the exercise price and all applicable withholding taxes. You must pay the
exercise price on the day you exercise the Option (a) in cash, (b) in whole shares of Common Stock
valued at their Fair Market Value, or (c) by delivering irrevocable instructions to a broker to
promptly deliver to the Company the amount of the exercise price and all applicable withholding
taxes (a  cashless exercise ), unless you are an executive officer of the Company and such cashless
exercise is prohibited by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If Stock is used to pay the exercise
price ( swap transaction ), the Stock used (i) must have been owned by you for at least six months
prior to the date of exercise or purchased by you in the open market; and (ii) must not have been
used in a stock-for-stock swap transaction within the preceding six months. You shall not have any
rights as a stockholder with respect to the Shares of Common Stock subject to the Option until you
have exercised the Option for such Shares. 

3.  Retirement, Disability, Death or Other Termination of Employment.   If your termination of
employment is due to Retirement, your Option will become exercisable according to the table set
forth in paragraph 2 above (unless immediately vested and exercisable as a result of your death
following Retirement as provided below) and will remain exercisable until the expiration date or
until one year after your date of death, whichever occurs first. If you become permanently
disabled (as determined by Wells Fargo) while you are employed by Wells Fargo, then your entire
Option is immediately vested and exercisable and will remain exercisable until one year after your
date of death or until the Option expires, whichever occurs first. If you die while you are
employed by Wells Fargo or following your Retirement, the entire Option is immediately vested and
exercisable, and your Beneficiary as determined in accordance with the Plan may exercise the Option
until one year after the date of your death or until the Option expires, whichever occurs first.
If you leave Wells Fargo s employment for any reason other than death, permanent disability,
Retirement, or discharge for cause, you may exercise that part of the Option which was exercisable
on the date of termination (as determined by Wells Fargo) at any time within three (3) months after
such date of termination or until the expiration date of the Option, whichever occurs first. If
you are discharged for cause, the Option will expire upon receipt by you of oral or written notice
of termination. 

For acceleration of grant on Retirement:  If your termination of employment is due to Retirement,
your Option will immediately vest and become exercisable until the expiration date or until one
year after your date of death, whichever occurs first. If you become permanently disabled while
you are employed by Wells Fargo, then your entire Option is immediately vested and exercisable and
will remain exercisable until one year after your date of death or until the Option expires,
whichever occurs first. If you die while you are employed by Wells Fargo, the entire Option is
immediately vested and exercisable, and your Beneficiary as determined in accordance with the Plan
may exercise the Option until one year after the date of your death or until the Option expires,
whichever occurs first. If you leave Wells Fargo s employment for any reason other than death,
permanent disability, Retirement, or discharge for cause, you may exercise that part of the Option
which was exercisable on the date of termination (as determined by Wells Fargo) at any time within
three (3) months after such date of termination or until the expiration date of the Option,
whichever occurs first. If you are discharged for cause, the Option will expire upon receipt by
you of oral or written notice of termination. 

For executive officers who sign Trade Secrets Agreement (see below):  If you cease to be an
Employee before the vesting date due to your permanent disability, the Option is immediately vested
and exercisable and will remain exercisable until one year after your date of death or until the
Option expires, whichever occurs first. If you die before the vesting date, the Option is
immediately vested and exercisable, and your Beneficiary as determined in accordance with the Plan
may exercise the Option until one year after the date of your death or until the Option expires,
whichever occurs first. If you are discharged as an Employee for cause before the vesting date,
the Option will expire immediately. If you cease to be an Employee before the vesting date due to
Retirement or any other reason other than permanent disability, death or discharge for cause, then
(i) if you satisfy the vesting conditions the Option will vest and become exercisable on the
vesting date, or (ii) if you fail to satisfy the vesting conditions the Option will expire
immediately. Following vesting of the Option on the vesting date, the Option will remain
exercisable until it expires except in the event of your death in which case your Beneficiary as
determined in accordance with the Plan may exercise the Option until one year after the date of
your death or until the Option expires, whichever occurs first, or in the event of your discharge
for cause in which case the Option will expire immediately. 

For Directors:   Death or Other Termination.  the event you leave the Board of Directors of the
Company for any reason other than your death or for cause, the Option will remain outstanding and
exercisable in accordance with the original terms until the expiration date or until one year after
your date of death, whichever occurs first. If you die, the entire Option is immediately vested
and exercisable, and your Beneficiary as determined in accordance with the Plan may exercise the
Option until one year after the date of your death or until the Option expires, whichever occurs
first. In the event you leave the Board of Directors for cause, the Option will terminate and be
cancelled as of the date you cease to be a Director. 

4.  Compliance and Withholding Taxes.  The issuance of Shares upon the exercise of the Option shall
be subject to compliance by the Company and you with all applicable requirements of law relating
thereto, including withholding tax obligations, and with all applicable regulations of any stock
exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed at the time of such issuance. You agree to
satisfy all withholding tax obligations applicable to the acquisition of Shares under the Option or
the disposition of such Shares that the Company deems necessary. Income taxes are computed based
on the difference between the Fair Market Value of the Shares acquired as of the date of exercise
and the exercise price for those Shares. Taxes may be paid either in cash or, if you elect, by
having the Company withhold from the Shares to be issued a number of Shares (valued at their Fair
Market Value as of the date of exercise) necessary to satisfy the taxes. The Company is not
obligated to exercise the Option and/or deliver the Shares until all payment obligations are met.

5.  Nontransferability of Option.  Unless the Committee provides otherwise, (i) no rights under
the Option will be assignable or transferable, and neither you nor your Beneficiary will have any
power to anticipate, alienate, dispose of, pledge or encumber any rights under the Option, and (ii)
the rights and the benefits of the Option may be exercised and received during your lifetime only
by you or your legal representative.

6.  No Agreement for Wells Fargo to Continue Your Employment.  Nothing in this Agreement gives you
any right to continued employment and Wells Fargo may terminate you at any time for any reason.

7.  General Restrictions.  The Company may delay the exercise of the Option if it determines that
(a) the Shares subject to the Option should be listed, registered or qualified on any securities
exchange or under any law, or (b) the consent of a regulatory body is desirable.

8.  Hold Through Retirement Provision.  As a condition to receiving this Award, you agree to hold,
while employed by the Company or any Affiliate and for a period of one year after your Retirement,
shares of Common Stock equal to at least 50% of the after-tax shares of Common Stock (assuming a
50% tax rate) acquired upon exercise of this Award

9.  Additional Provisions and Interpretation of this Agreement.  This Agreement is subject to the
provisions of the Plan. Capitalized terms not defined in this Agreement are used as defined in the
Plan. If the Plan and this Agreement are inconsistent, provisions of the Plan will govern.
Interpretations of the Plan and this Agreement by the Committee are binding on you and the
Company.

Additional provision for options granted before 2004:   Reload Option.  If you exercise
this Option while you are employed by Wells Fargo and pay the exercise price in Stock as described
herein, you are hereby granted a non-qualified reload stock option ( Reload Option ) at the Fair
Market Value as of the date of such exercise. The Reload Option will be for the number of whole
Shares used in the swap exercise to pay the exercise price plus a number of Shares with respect to
the tax liability related to the exercise. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, the Reload
Option may be exercised between the date of grant and the date of expiration of this Option. The
Reload Option shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, as modified by this
paragraph 5. No Reload Option is granted if this Option is exercised after your Retirement,
permanent disability, death or other termination of employment. No Reload Option is granted upon
exercise of the Reload Option. 

Wells Fargo Agreement Regarding Trade Secrets, Confidential Information, And Non-Solicitation 

I. Introduction 

In consideration for the stock option grant awarded to me on  insert applicable date  by Wells
Fargo   Company ( the Company ), I acknowledge that the nature of my employment with the Company
permits me to have access to certain of its trade secrets and confidential and proprietary
information and that such information is, and shall always remain, the sole property of the
Company. Any unauthorized disclosure or use of this information would be wrongful and would cause
the Company irreparable harm. Therefore, I agree as follows:

II. Trade Secrets And Confidential Information 

During the course of my employment I have acquired knowledge of the Company s Trade Secrets and
other proprietary information relating to its business, business methods, personnel, and customers
(collectively referenced as  Confidential Information ).  Trade Secrets  are defined as
information, including but not limited to, a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device,
method, technique, or process, that: (1) derives independent economic value, actual or potential,
from not being generally known to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic value from
its disclosure or use and (2) is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances
to maintain its secrecy. The Company s Trade Secrets include, but are not limited to, the
following:

the names, address, and contact information of the Company s customers and prospective
customers, as well any other personal or financial information relating to any customer or
prospect, including, without limitation, account numbers, balances, portfolios, maturity
dates, loans, policies, investment activities and objectives; 

any information concerning the Company s operations, including without limitation,
information related to its methods, services, pricing, finances, practices, strategies,
business plans, agreements, decision-making, systems, technology, policies, procedures,
marketing, sales, techniques and processes; 

any other proprietary and/or confidential information relating to the Company s
customers, employees, products, services, sales, technologies, or business affairs. 

I understand that Records of the Company also constitute Confidential Information and that my
obligation to maintain the confidentiality thereof continues at all times during and after my
employment.  Records  include, but are not limited to, original, duplicated, computerized,
memorized, handwritten or any other form of information, whether contained in materials provided to
me by the Company, or by any institution acquired by the Company, or compiled by me in any form or
manner including information in documents or electronic devices, such as software, flowcharts,
graphs, spreadsheets, resource manuals, videotapes, calendars, day timers, planners, rolodexes, or
telephone directories maintained in personal
computers, laptop computers, personal digital assistants or any other device. These records do not
become any less confidential or proprietary to the Company because I may commit some of them to
memory or because I may otherwise maintain them outside of the Company s offices.

I agree that Confidential Information of the Company is to be used by me solely and exclusively for
the purpose of conducting business on behalf of the Company. I am expected to keep such
Confidential Information confidential and not to divulge or disclose this information except for
that purpose. Upon my retirement, I agree to immediately return to the Company all Records and
Confidential Information, including information maintained by me in my office, personal electronic
devices, and/or at home.

III. Non-Solicitation Of Company s Customers And Employees 

I agree that for the period beginning on my retirement date with Company through  insert applicable
date  ( the Non-Solicitation Period ), I will not interfere with the Company s business by directly
or indirectly soliciting an employee to leave the Company s employ, by inducing a consultant to
sever the consultant s relationship with Company, or by directly or indirectly soliciting business
from any of the Company s clients, customers, or prospective customers whose identity became known
to me during my employment with the Company. This limitation is not intended to limit the Company s
right to prevent misappropriation of its Confidential Information beyond the Non-Solicitation
Period.

IV. Partial Invalidity 

If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such provision shall be enforced to the greatest extent permitted and the remainder
of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

V. Choice Of Law/Integration/Survival 

This Agreement and any dispute, controversy or claim which arises under or relates in any way to it
shall be governed by the law of the state where the incident(s) giving rise to the dispute or claim
arose. This Agreement supersedes any prior written or verbal agreements pertaining to the subject
matter herein, and is intended to be a final expression of our Agreement with respect only to the
terms contained herein. There may be no modification of this Agreement except in writing signed by
me and an executive officer of the Company. This Agreement: shall survive my

employment by the Company; inure to the benefit of successors and assigns of the Company, and is
binding upon my heirs and legal representatives.

Acknowledgment 

I acknowledge that I have read, understand, and received a copy of this Agreement and will abide by
its terms.

Name of Grant Recipient 

Date 

</EX-10.A>

<EX-10.C>
 3
 f54129exv10wc.htm
 EX-10.C

exv10wc 

Exhibit 10(c)

WELLS FARGO BONUS PLAN  

The Plan is amended effective January 1, 2009 and supersedes the Wells 
 Fargo Bonus Plan originally effective January 1, 2000, subsequently clarified
effective January 1, 2004 and January 1, 2006, and amended and restated
effective January 1, 2008. Participants, incentive opportunities and
Performance Measures shall be identified annually. 

PURPOSE OF THE PLAN 

The purpose of the Wells Fargo Bonus Plan (the  Plan ) is to motivate a select group of
management, supervisory and individual contributors to achieve superior results for Wells
Fargo   Company and its subsidiaries ( Wells Fargo ). The Plan is designed to provide
Participants with incentive compensation opportunities that focus on individual
accountability for appropriate risk management and full compliance with applicable laws and
regulations, as well as individual and team contributions through the measurement of
meaningful performance goals that are consistent with Wells Fargo s corporate and business
unit objectives.

The terms of the Plan are intended to comply with the requirements under any applicable law,
including the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended ( EESA ). In the
event the terms of the Plan are impacted by the provisions of EESA and the rules,
regulations and guidance issued thereunder or any other applicable law, a Participant s
rights to or receipt of compensation under the Plan may be modified, recovered or limited to
ensure compliance.

This document is comprised of three sections:

1. 
       
      Plan Eligibility

2. 
       
      Plan Components

3. 
       
      Plan Administration

For questions related to this document, policies or the administration of the Plan, please
contact your Human Resources representative.

PLAN ELIGIBILITY 

A. 
       
      Plan Eligibility

Subject to the following proviso, a select group of Wells Fargo management,
supervisors and individual contributors who are in a position to control or influence
business results are eligible to participate in the Plan ( Participants  provided,
however, that any individual who on the last day of a Plan Year is an  officer  as
determined by Wells   Company s Board of Directors for purposes of Section 16 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, shall not be eligible to participate in
the Plan for that Plan Year even if he or she was previously identified for
participation for that Plan Year. Eligibility for participation is determined on a
case-by-case basis. Business unit managers are responsible for identifying
Participants within their business units prior to the beginning of the Plan Year.

The intent of the Plan is to provide incentive awards to those Participants who are
not eligible for a bonus or cash incentive compensation under any other plan or
written agreement with Wells Fargo. Therefore, Plan Participants who participate in
any other Wells Fargo-sponsored cash incentive compensation plan are not eligible to
receive an award under this Plan.

B. 
       
      Plan Qualifiers.

Page 2 of 9 Pages   

For purposes of this Plan, a  Disqualifying Factor  is an event, the occurrence of
which immediately invalidates a Participant s opportunity for an incentive award. If
a Participant s incentive opportunity is subject to a Disqualifying Factor and the
event occurs, the Participant shall have no incentive opportunity for that particular
Plan Year.

1. 
       
      A Plan Participant must be employed by Wells Fargo as of the last
day of the Plan Year in order to be eligible for an incentive award under the
Plan, unless otherwise noted below or in the Plan Administration section. There
will be no incentive opportunity for the Plan Year for those Participants who
experience a voluntary or involuntary termination before the last day of the
Plan Year. Exceptions may be made if the termination is a result of the
Participant s retirement, death or a qualifying event under the Wells Fargo  
Company Salary Continuation Pay Plan as set forth in the leave of absence or
death or retirement policies in the Plan Administration section.

2. 
       
      A Plan Participant must receive a performance rating of 3 or
greater for the applicable Plan Year to be considered for an incentive award,
unless approved for consideration by the Operating Committee member and Senior
Human Resources Leader for the team member s business group.

3. 
       
      The Corporate EPS (Earnings Per Share) threshold must be met for
payout to occur under this Plan. If the threshold Corporate EPS is not met, no
bonuses will be earned unless specifically authorized by the Human Resources
Committee of the Wells Fargo Board of Directors (HRC). In addition, if Wells
Fargo achieves or exceeds the Corporate EPS threshold, the HRC reserves the
authority to adjust bonuses, up or down, in its discretion.

Business unit managers should work with their HR representative to identify any other
Disqualifying Factors that may impact a Participant s eligibility under the Plan.

In addition to the Disqualifying Factors described above, a Participant s incentive
opportunity under the Plan may be adjusted or denied, regardless of meeting
individual Performance Measures or the Corporate EPS threshold, for unsatisfactory
performance or non-compliance with or violation of Wells Fargo s:

1. 
       
      Code of Ethics and Business Conduct;

2. 
       
      Information Security Policy, and/or

3. 
       
      Compliance and Risk Management Accountability Policy.

PLAN COMPONENTS 

Award  
Opportunity 

Business unit managers, working with Human Resources, shall establish an
incentive target for each Participant s position. 

The incentive opportunity should be a range around the target: 

Page 3 of 9 Pages   

Threshold   - 50% of the target award

 - Satisfactory performance that falls short
of target.

Target         -100% of the target award

 - Good, commendable on plan
performance.

Maximum   - 150% of target award

 - Performance that exceeds expectations.

Performance Measures 

A Performance Measure defines the action or resultant performance expected of a
Participant in a given Plan Year.  
Performance Measures may vary from year to year, from position to position or
from one Participant to another. Typically each Participant should have three
to five measures set by their business unit manager.

The Performance Measures should be indicators of the expected:

1.    Overall financial success at the Participant s level or of the Participant s
business unit

2.    Tactical, operation achievements which will contribute to the overall success
at the Participant s level or business unit

and/or 

3.    Major strategic milestones achieve by or on behalf of the Participant, the
Participant s business unit or Wells Fargo

Performance  
Measures 
(continued) 

The business unit manager is responsible for defining the Performance Measures
within the Plan. The business unit manager is encouraged to consult with the
Participant and Human Resources in identifying the Performance Measures.  
Performance Measures should be established for each Participant to be effective
as of the beginning of the Plan Year. All Performance Measures and Award
recommendations are subject to review and modification at higher levels of the
organization.

Some characteristics of Performance Measures: 

The Performance Measures should include identifiable activities and/or
results for each level of achievement. Most Performance Measures (commonly
referred to as  MBOs  or Management Business Objectives) should have at least
three defined Performance Levels: Threshold, Target and Maximum.

Page 4 of 9 Pages   

At least one Performance Measure should have a financial objective that
is linked to business group objectives.

One Performance Measure may be based on Corporate EPS. The appropriate
weighting will be determined by the business unit manager.

Where possible, Participants should have at least one Performance
Measure linked to either P L or expense management. These measures can be set
up as distinct MBOs or an additional Plan Qualifier.

For Compliance Professionals

1.       The financial goal must be tied to the financial performance of the manager
who is at least one level above the Compliance Professional s immediate
supervisor.

2.       The Compliance Professional s direct manager will evaluate the Compliance
Professional s performance measures with input from the Compliance
Professional s dotted-line manager(s). The final award recommendation under
this Plan will be jointly approved by the direct manager and the dotted-line
manager.

More suggestions on writing good MBOs can be obtained from HR or can be found in
the Wells Fargo Bonus Plan calculator.

Measure  Weighting
and  
Scoring 

While Performance Levels are designated as target, threshold and maximum,
individual measures can be scored as either an all-or-nothing goal or on a
scale.  
Performance Measures may be weighted equally or weighted individually to
correspond with the Participant s accountability, strategic and tactical
priorities, and/or the difficulty of achieving the goal.

The scores for multiple Performance Measures are aggregated to determine the
final award level. The business unit manager is responsible for identifying the
target, threshold and maximum Performance Levels and the scoring guides that
will be used to calculate the Participant s incentive award.

Award  
Calculation
and
Payment 

Performance shall be evaluated as soon as practicable following completion of
the Plan Year by the Participant s business unit manager and/or any other
manager responsible for reviewing incentive compensation awards in the
Participant s business unit. All awards under the Plan are subject to the
following guidelines:

Page 5 of 9 Pages   

Each Performance Measure is evaluated individually following the end of
the Plan Year. Provided the Plan Qualifiers have been met, the Participant s
incentive award for a Plan Year is determined by adding the values determined
for each Performance Measure taking into consideration any assigned weighting.
The incentive award should be consistent with the overall Target Bonus
opportunity identified for the Participant s position.

A Participant s award may be increased or decreased by up to 15% of its
value, on a discretionary basis by the manager of the Participant s business
unit.

Incentive awards are generally calculated as a percentage of a
Participant s base salary and will be awarded no later than 75 days following
the end of the Plan Year.

With approval from the Plan Administrator, an incentive award may be
reduced in any amount or denied for unsatisfactory performance. An incentive
award may also be denied if a Participant is involuntarily terminated before the
date that the Participant s incentive award is paid.

Awards may be paid in the form of cash or equity, or a combination
thereof, in the HRC s discretion. To the extent the HRC directs the Company to
pay all or a portion of an award in the form of an equity award under the Wells
Fargo   Company Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the  LTICP ), the equity
award will in all cases be conditioned upon and subject to the approval of the
HRC and be subject to such terms and conditions as approved by the HRC in
accordance with the provisions of the LTICP and reflected in the applicable
award agreement.

PLAN ADMINISTRATION 

A. 
       
      Plan Administrator

The Plan Administrator is the Executive Vice President and Director of Human Resources.
The Plan Administrator has full discretionary authority to administer and interpret the
Plan and may, at any time, delegate to personnel of Wells Fargo such responsibilities as
he or she considers appropriate to facilitate the day-to-day administration of the Plan.
The Plan Administrator also has the full discretionary authority to adjust or amend a
Participant s incentive opportunity under the Plan at any time subject to the authority
of the HRC to adjust bonuses as described herein.

Page 6 of 9 Pages   

Plan commitments or interpretations (oral or written) by anyone other than the Plan
Administrator or one of his/her delegates are invalid and will have no force upon the
policies and procedures set forth in this Plan.  

B. 
       
      Plan Year

Participant performance is measured and financial records are kept on a  Plan Year 
basis. The Plan Year is the 12-month period beginning each January 1 and ending on the
following December 31, unless the Plan is modified, suspended or terminated.

C. 
       
      Disputes

If a Participant has a dispute regarding his/her incentive award under the Plan, the
Participant should attempt to resolve the dispute with the manager of his/her business
unit. If this is not successful, the Participant should prepare a written request for
review addressed to the Participant s Human Resources representative. The request for
review should include any facts supporting the Participant s request as well as any
issues or comments the Participant deems pertinent. The Human Resources representative
will send the Participant a written response documenting the outcome of this review in
writing no later than 60 days following the date of the Participant s written request.
(If additional time is necessary, the Participant shall be notified in writing.) The
determination of this request shall be final and conclusive upon all persons.

D. 
       
      Amendment or Termination

The Board of Directors of Wells Fargo   Company (the  Company ), and the Human Resources
Committee of the Board of Directors, the Company s President, any Vice Chairman, or the
Director of Human Resources may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan at any time, for any
reason. No amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall adversely affect a
Participant s incentive award earned under the Plan prior to the effective date of the
amendment, suspension or termination, unless otherwise agreed to by the Participant.

E. 
       
      Leaves of Absence

Incentive awards payable under the Plan may be pro-rated for Participants who go on a
leave of absence provided the terms and conditions of the Plan have been satisfied,
Participant actively worked at least three months during the Plan Year and the
Participant s performance contributed towards the achievement of some or all of the
Participant s Performance Measures. If a Participant satisfies all of the Participant s
Performance Measures, the Participant s award should not be pro-rated. Business units
should apply these criteria consistently to all Participants.

For Participants who receive notice of a qualifying event under the Wells Fargo   Company
Salary Continuation Pay Plan, the Notice Period (as defined by that plan) should be
considered in determining whether the Participant satisfies the three-month  actively at
work  requirement. Incentive awards will be determined following the end of the Plan
Year and are subject to the other terms and conditions of the Plan.

Page 7 of 9 Pages   

F. 
       
      Changes in Employment Status

1. 
       
      Employees hired after the beginning of the Plan Year may be eligible to
participate in the Plan. Incentive Opportunity Percentages and Performance Measures
should be designed accordingly. Where Performance Measures are impractical to
develop for a partial Plan Year, eligibility should be delayed until the next Plan
Year.

2. 
       
      If, during the Plan Year, a Participant transfers to another business
unit or receives a promotion to a new position within Wells Fargo, the Participant s
incentive award should be pro-rated provided the Participant met some or all of the
Performance Measures prior to the transfer or promotion. Incentive awards will be
determined following the end of the Plan Year.

G. 
       
      Death or Retirement

In the event of a Participant s death or retirement during the Plan Year, the
Participant s incentive award may be pro-rated provided the Participant actively worked
for at least three months during the Plan Year and met some or all of the Participant s
Performance Measures.

H. 
       
      Withholding Taxes

Wells Fargo shall deduct from all payments under the Plan an amount necessary to satisfy
federal, state or local tax withholding requirements.

I. 
       
      Not an Employment Contract

The Plan is not an employment contract and participation in the Plan does not alter a
Participant s at-will employment relationship with Wells Fargo. Both the Participant
and Wells Fargo are free to terminate their employment relationship at any time for any
reason. No rights in the Plan may be claimed by any person whether or not he/she is
selected to participate in the Plan. No person shall acquire any right to an accounting
or to examine the books or the affairs of Wells Fargo.

J. 
       
      Assignment

No Participant shall have any right or power to pledge or assign any rights, privileges,
or incentive awards provided for under the Plan.

K. 
       
      Unsecured Obligations

Incentive awards under the Plan are unsecured obligations of the Company.

L. 
       
      Pro-Rated Awards

In the event that an award needs to be pro-rated the following methodology should be
used.

Page 8 of 9 Pages   

The annual salary should be multiplied by the ratio of months worked during the
year by the target bonus percentage.

The ratio of months worked is equal to the number of full months worked in the
qualifying position divided by 12.

For example, a Participant is transfers to another position on November 1st. Their
salary was $100,000 per year at the time of transfer, and they had a 10% bonus
target. They achieved all their goals at target level. Their bonus would be:

M. 
       
      Code of Conduct

Violation of the terms or the spirit of the Plan and/or Wells Fargo s Code of Ethics and
Business Conduct by the Participant and/or the Participant s supervisor, or other
serious misconduct (including, but not limited to, gaming which is more fully discussed
below), are grounds for disciplinary action, including disqualification from further
participation in the Plan (including awards payable under the terms of the Plan) and/or
immediate termination of employment.

Participants are expected to adhere to ethical and honest business practices. A
Participant who violates the spirit of the Plan by  gaming  the system becomes
immediately ineligible to participate in the Plan.  Gaming  is the manipulation and/or
misrepresentation of sales or sales reporting in order to receive or attempt to receive
compensation, or to meet or attempt to meet goals.

N. 
       
      Internal Revenue Code Section 409A

To the extent that an award is paid in cash under the Plan, Wells Fargo intends such
award to qualify as a short-term deferral exempt from the requirements of Internal
Revenue Code Section 409A. In the event an award payable under the Plan does not
qualify for treatment as an exempt short-term deferral, such amount will be paid in a
manner that will satisfy the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and
applicable guidance thereunder.

Page 9 of 9 Pages   

</EX-10.C>

<EX-10.F>
 4
 f54129exv10wf.htm
 EX-10.F

exv10wf 

Exhibit 10(f) 

Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan  

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 

DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 

(As Amended and Restated Effective as of January 1, 2008)

1.           Purpose, History and Effective Dates . On July 27, 1993, the Board of Directors of
Norwest Corporation, a Delaware corporation now known as  Wells Fargo   Company  (the  Company ),
authorized the creation of a nonqualified, unfunded, elective deferral plan known as the  Norwest
Corporation Employees  Deferred Compensation Plan  (the  Plan ) for the purpose of allowing a
select group of management and highly compensated employees of the Company and its Affiliates to
defer the receipt of compensation which would otherwise be paid to those employees. Effective July
1, 1999, the name of the Plan was changed to the  Wells Fargo   Company Deferred Compensation
Plan.  The Company reserved the power to amend and terminate the Plan by action of the Human
Resources Committee of the Company s Board of Directors. The Human Resources Committee exercised
that reserved power of amendment by the adoption of an amended and restated Plan document
effective January 1, 2004, and by the adoption of this amended and restated Plan document (the
 Restatement ) effective January 1, 2008 (the  Restatement Effective Date ).

The terms of this Restatement are intended to comply with Internal Revenue Code  409A, as
added by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and applicable guidance thereunder. The terms
of this Restatement shall apply to: (i) deferred compensation that relates all or in part to
services performed on or after January 1, 2005, and (ii) deferred compensation that relates
entirely to services performed on or before December 31, 2004 is such amounts were not earned
or vested prior to January 1, 2005. This Restatement is not intended to materially modify the
Plan with respect to any other amounts payable pursuant to the Plan. This Restatement shall be
construed and administered accordingly.

2.           Definitions . When the following terms are used herein with initial capital letters, they
shall have the following meanings:

(A) 
       
      Affiliate.  Any entity other than the Company that is part of a  single
employer  within the meaning of subsection (b) or (c) of Code  414 that includes the
Company; subject, however, to such aggregation rules as may be provided in applicable
guidance under Code  409A. 

(B) 
       
      CD Option . An earnings option based on a certificate of deposit in such
denomination and for such duration as is determined from time to time by the Plan
Administrator. 

(C) 
       
      Code . The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as from time to time amended. 

(D) 
       
      Common Stock . Shares of Wells Fargo   Company common stock. 

(E) 
       
      Common Stock Earnings Option . An earnings option based on shares of Common Stock. 

(F) 
       
      Compensation . The following amounts earned by an Eligible Employee
during a Deferral Year for services rendered to the Company or its Affiliates and
payable (if not deferred) no 

later than March 15 of the Plan Year following the Deferral Year: base salary,
incentives, commissions, and bonuses; provided, however, that Compensation
shall not include: 

(1) 
       
     any award under the Company s Long-Term Incentive
Compensation Plan, or any successor to that plan; 

(2) 
       
     any amount if the right to receive that amount is conditioned on the Eligible
Employee s Separation from Service; 

(3) 
       
     compensation for a period of salary continuation leave; and 

(4) 
       
     bonus amounts payable after March 1 of the Plan Year
following the Deferral Year in which the Employee s Separation from Service
occurs, unless the Eligible Employee elected payment in annual installments
and Section 9(I) does not apply. 

(G) 
       
      Deferral Account . A bookkeeping account maintained for a Participant to
which is credited the amounts deferred under a Deferral Election or a Stock Option
Gain Deferral Election, together with any increase or decrease thereon based on the earnings option(s)
selected by the Participant or mandated by the Plan. 

(H) 
       
      Deferral Election . An irrevocable election made by an Eligible Employee
during an enrollment period specified by the Plan Administrator or the Plan to
defer the receipt of Compensation for a given Deferral Year. The term Deferral
Election does not include a Stock Option Gain Deferral Election. 

(I) 
       
      Deferral Year . The Plan Year for which a Deferral Election is made. 

(J) 
       
      Eligible Employee . Each employee of the Company or any of its Affiliates who
has been selected for participation in this Plan for a given Plan Year pursuant to
Section 3 of the Plan. 

(K) 
       
      ERISA . The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as from
time to time amended. 

(L) 
       
      Fund Option . An earnings option based on a selection of registered
investment companies, collective investment funds, private portfolios, or other
comparable investment media chosen from time to time by the Company s Employee
Benefits Review Committee. 

(M) 
       
      Initial Deferral Election . The special Deferral Election described in
Section 6(C) that is available only to certain Eligible Employees who have not
previously participated in an account balance nonqualified deferred compensation
plan maintained by the Company or an Affiliate. 

(N) 
       
      Key Employee . If the Plan Administrator determines that the Participant is
a  Key Employee  for purposes of Code section 409A, no lump sum or monthly annuity
payment shall be paid to the Participant prior to the date that is six months after
the date the Participant s Separation from Service occurred. 

(1) 
       
     For purposes of this Plan, a Key Employee means: 

(a) 
       
     any Participant who is a  key employee  under
Code section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii) (applied in accordance with
the regulations thereunder and disregarding Code section 416(i)(5)) at
any time during the 12-month period ending on the key employee
identification date. For purposes of determining  key employee  

2 

status under Code section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), except as required under
such provision and the regulations thereunder, the term  officer 
shall refer to an employee of the Company or an Affiliate with the
title Senior Vice President or above, and 

(b) 
       
     any Participant who served as a member of the
Company s Management Committee at any time during the 12-month period
ending on the key employee identification date. 

(2) 
       
     For purposes of applying Code section 409A, the  key
employee identification date  is each December 31 st . Any person
described in paragraph (A) on a key employee effective date shall be treated
as a Key Employee for the entire 12-month period beginning on the following
April 1 st . 

(3) 
       
     Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Section 2(N),
in the event of a corporate transaction to which the Company or an Affiliate
is a party, the Plan Administrator may, in his her or discretion, establish a
method for determining Specified Employees pursuant to Treasury Regulation
Section 1.409A-1(i)(6). 

(O) 
       
      Participant . Each Eligible Employee who enters into a Deferral Election,
who prior to 2004 entered into a Stock Option Gain Deferral Election, or who has a
Transferred Account set up under the Plan. An employee who has become a Participant
shall remain a Participant in the Plan until the date of the Participant s death
or, if earlier, the date the Participant no longer has any accounts under the Plan. 

(P) 
       
      Plan Administrator . For purposes of Section 3(16)(A) of ERISA, the Human
Resources Committee of the Company s Board of Directors has designated that the Plan
Administrator shall be the Company s Director of Human Resources. 

(Q) 
       
      Plan Year . The twelve-month period beginning on any January 1 and ending the
following December 31. 

(R) 
       
      Separation from Service . For purposes of this Plan, a participant s
 Separation from Service  occurs upon his or her death, retirement or other
termination of employment or other event that qualifies as a  separation from service 
under Code section 409A and the applicable regulations thereunder as in effect from
time to time. The Plan Administrator shall determine in each case when a
participant s Separation from Service has occurred, which determination shall be made
in a manner consistent with Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h). The Plan
Administrator shall determine that a Separation from Service has occurred as of a
certain date when the facts and circumstances indicate that the Company (or an
Affiliate, if applicable) and the participant reasonably anticipate that, after that
date, the participant will render no further services, or the participant s level of
bona fide services (either as an employee or independent contractor) will permanently
decrease to a level that is 20% or less than the average level of the participant s
bona fide services (either as an employee or independent contractor) previously in
effect for such participant over the immediately preceding 36-month period (or the
participant s entire period of service, if the participant has been providing services
for less than 36 months). If the Participant incurs a Separation from Service as
determined by the Plan Administrator, a subsequent rehire will not impact the prior
Separation from Service determination and distribution will commence pursuant to
Section 9. 

The following presumptions shall also apply to all such determinations: 

3 

(1) 
       
      Transfers . A Separation from Service has not
occurred upon the participant s transfer of employment from the Company to an
Affiliate or vice versa, or from an Affiliate to another Affiliate. 

(2) 
       
      Medical leave of absence . Where the participant
has a medical leave of absence due to any medically determinable physical or
mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected
to last for a continuous period of not less than six months, and he or she
has not returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, a Separation
from Service has occurred on the earlier of: (A) the first day on which the
participant would not be considered  disabled  under any disability policy of
the Company or Affiliate under which the participant is then receiving a
benefit; or (B) the first day on which the participant s medical leave of
absence period exceeds 29 months. 

(3) 
       
      Military leave of absence . Where the participant
has a military leave of absence, and he or she has not returned to employment
with the Company or an Affiliate, a Separation from Service has occurred on
the day next following the last day on which the participant is entitled to
reemployment rights under USERRA. 

(4) 
       
      Salary continuation leave . A Separation from
Service has occurred on the first day of the Participant s salary
continuation leave taken under the Company s salary continuation leave
program. 

(5) 
       
      Other leaves of absence . In the event that the
participant is on a bona fide leave of absence, not otherwise described in
this Sec. 2(R), from which he or she has not returned to employment with the
Company or an Affiliate, the participant s Separation from Service has
occurred on the first day on which the participant s leave of absence period
exceeds six months or, if earlier, upon the participant s termination of
employment (provided that such termination of employment constitutes a
Separation from Service in accordance with the last sentence of the first
paragraph of this section): 

(6) 
       
      Asset purchase transaction . If, in connection with
the sale or other disposition of substantial assets (such as a division or
substantially all assets of a trade or business) of the Company or an
Affiliate to an unrelated buyer, the participant becomes an employee of the
buyer or an affiliate of the buyer upon the closing of or in connection with
such transaction, a Separation from Service has not occurred if the Company
and the buyer have specified that such transaction will not, with respect to
any individual affected by such transaction who becomes an employee of the
buyer or an affiliate, be considered a  separation from service  under
Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h), and such specification meets the
requirements of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h)(4). 

(S) 
       
      Stock Option Gain Compensation . Gain realized from the exercise of
specified Common Stock option grants under the Company s Long-Term Incentive
Compensation Plan, or any other stock option plan approved by the Plan
Administrator, using the stock-for-stock swap ( stock swap ) method of exercise.
Stock option gains derived from either a cash exercise or a same day sale are not
Stock Option Gain Compensation. 

(T) 
       
      Stock Option Gain Deferral Election . An irrevocable election to defer the
receipt of Stock Option Gain Compensation made by an Eligible Employee prior to
January 1, 2004. 

(U) 
       
      Transferred Account . A bookkeeping account maintained for a Participant to
which is credited the Participant s interest in any nonqualified deferred
compensation plan transferred 

4 

to this Plan, together with any increase or decrease thereon based on the earnings
option(s)
selected by the Participant or mandated by the Plan. 

3.           Eligibility . Each employee of the Company or an Affiliate who has been selected for
participation in this Plan by the Plan Administrator, or by such officers of the Company to
whom the Plan Administrator has delegated its authority, shall be considered an Eligible
Employee and shall be eligible to make Deferral Elections under the Plan until such time as
the employee s selection is revoked. Selection of an employee for participation in this Plan
shall be deemed to occur on the date notice of the employee s selection is sent to the
employee in accordance with the notice procedures established by the Plan Administrator. In
the event an employee s selection is revoked and the employee ceases to be an Eligible
Employee, such revocation shall have no effect on any outstanding deferral elections.

4.           Transferred Accounts . Transferred Accounts created following a merger or transfer
described in Appendix A shall be subject to the terms and conditions described in Appendix A. To
the extent, if any, Appendix A makes distribution of a Transferred Account subject to the rules of
this Plan without specifying whether the distribution rules of Section 8 or Section 9 will apply,
the rules of this Plan applicable to distribution of the Transferred Account shall be (a) the
rules in Section 8, if the Transferred Accounts are attributable to amounts earned and vested
prior to January 1, 2005, and (b) the rules in Section 9, if the Transferred Accounts are
attributable to amounts not earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005. Individuals for whom a
Transferred Account is maintained shall be considered Participants in this Plan with respect to
their Transferred Accounts from the date indicated in Appendix A through the date their
Transferred Accounts are fully distributed. Such Participants shall not, however, be entitled to
enter into Deferral Elections unless they are also Eligible Employees within the meaning of the
Plan. The right of such Participants to make Deferral Elections shall be subject to any additional
limitations described in Appendix A.

5.           Deferral of Compensation .

(A) 
       
      Deferral Elections for Deferral Years Beginning On or After January 1, 2008 .
An Eligible Employee may elect to defer all or any part of his or her Compensation for
a Deferral Year beginning on or after January 1, 2008, by making a Deferral Election
in accordance with Section 6 below. 

(B) 
       
      Deferral Elections for Deferral Years Beginning Prior to January 1, 2008 .
Deferral Elections for Deferral Years beginning prior to January 1, 2008, were made
pursuant to the terms of the Plan in effect at the time of the Deferral Election. 

(C) 
       
      Stock Option Gain Deferral Elections . Effective January 1, 2004, the Plan no
longer permits Eligible Employees to enter into Stock Option Gain Deferral Elections.
Stock Option Gain Deferral Elections made prior to that date were made pursuant to the
terms of the Plan in effect at the time of the Stock Option Gain Deferral Election.
Notwithstanding anything in those terms or in this Plan to the contrary, Stock Option
Gain Deferral Elections with respect to options that were not earned and vested as of
December 31, 2004, and Stock Option Gain Deferral Elections with respect to options
that have not been exercised before the Participant s employment termination, shall be
void and have no effect. 

6.           Deferral Elections . Deferral Elections made with respect to Deferral Years beginning on
or after
January 1, 2008 shall be subject to the following:

5 

(A) 
       
      Time . Except as otherwise provided in (C) below, an Eligible Employee who
wishes to defer Compensation for a Deferral Year must file an irrevocable Deferral
Election with respect to that Compensation during the enrollment period specified by
the Plan Administrator for that Deferral Year, but no later than December 31 of the
Plan Year preceding that Deferral Year. A Deferral Election shall be effective only
for the Deferral Year specified in the Deferral Election. A new Deferral Election must
be filed for each Deferral Year. 

(B) 
       
      Content . An Eligible Employee s Deferral Election shall indicate the amount
of Compensation deferred, the earnings option(s) that will determine earnings on the
deferred Compensation (see Section 7(A)), and the time and form of distribution (see
Section 9). The Eligible Employee shall specify for each Compensation category the
amount to be deferred per pay period, expressed either as a percentage or a dollar
amount. 

(C) 
       
      Initial Deferral Elections . An employee who: 

(1) 
       
     has not previously been eligible to participate in any
 account balance plan  (as defined in Treas. Reg.
 31.3121(v)(2)-1(c)(1)(ii)(A)) maintained by the Company or any Affiliate,
other than a plan described in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(D), (E), (F), (G) or (H) of
Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1, including any arrangement that would have been such an
account balance plan if the person had been an employee at the time of his or
her participation, and 

(2) 
       
     becomes an Eligible Employee on or before the one-month
anniversary of the employee s date of hire, 

may make a special Deferral Election ( Initial Deferral Election ) within
thirty (30) days after the date on which he or she became an Eligible
Employee. An Initial Deferral Election shall apply only to Compensation earned
from the beginning of the first full payroll period that starts after the
Eligible Employee s Initial Deferral Election is received by the Plan
Administrator or the person designated by the Plan Administrator to receive
such elections. (For example, if a person is hired on April 2nd, becomes an
Eligible Employee on April 10th, and files a Deferral Election on May 3rd, the
Compensation deferred by that election will be the Eligible Employee s
Compensation for the period beginning with the first full payroll period
starting  after  May 3rd and ending on December 31st of that
same year.) The portion of bonus or incentive Compensation deferred by an
Initial Deferral Election will be determined by multiplying the total amount
earned during the Deferral Year by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
number of days in the Deferral Year during and after such first full payroll
period over which the bonus or incentive was earned and the denominator of
which is the total number of days in the Deferral Year over which the bonus or
incentive was earned, but disregarding any days prior to the Eligible
Employee s date of hire. If an Eligible Employee is eligible to make an
Initial Deferral Election during an enrollment period described in Section
6(A), any election made during the enrollment period will be treated as an
election pursuant to Section 6(A), and not as an election pursuant to this
Section 6(C), unless the election form clearly indicates that it is intended
to be an Initial Deferral Election pursuant to this Section 6(C) or the
Eligible Employee has previously filed an election pursuant to Section 6(A)
during that enrollment period. 

(D) 
       
      Reduced by Payroll Deductions . The amount of Compensation actually deferred
shall be reduced to the extent necessary (1) to pay the Federal Insurance
Contributions Act ( FICA ) taxes imposed under  3101 and  3111 of the Code and any
other payroll deductions determined by the 

6 

Plan Administrator prior to the beginning of the Deferral Year, or (2) to satisfy
any limitations established by the Plan Administrator prior to the beginning of the
Deferral Year. 

7. 
       
      Deferral Account Valuation . 

(A) 
       
      Earnings Options . At the time of his or her Deferral Election, a Participant
must choose to allocate the amounts that will be credited to the Participant s
Deferral Account among the following earnings options in increments of one (1)
percent: 

(1) 
       
     Common Stock Earnings Option 

(2) 
       
     CD Option 

(3) 
       
     Fund Options 

A minimum of twenty (20) percent of the amounts credited pursuant to each
Deferral Election must be allocated to the Common Stock Earnings Option.
All deferred Stock Option Gain Compensation will automatically be allocated
to the Common Stock Earnings Option. Except with respect to amounts
allocated to the Common Stock Earnings Option, a Participant shall be
entitled to change the earnings options for the Participant s Deferral
Accounts with such frequency (but no more than twice each year), and
effective as of such dates, as determined by the Plan Administrator by
making a reallocation election with the Plan Administrator pursuant to a
procedure established by the Plan Administrator. A reallocation election
will not change the allocation of future deferrals. (For example, if the
Plan Administrator allowed a reallocation election effective July 1, all of
a Participant s Deferral Account balances as of that date would be changed,
including amounts credited earlier in the same Deferral Year. Amounts
deferred later in that Deferral Year, however, would still be allocated in
the manner elected in the Participant s Deferral Election for that Deferral
Year, subject to reallocation if the Participant files a later reallocation
election.) 

(B) 
       
      Periodic Credits of Deferral Amounts . Deferred Compensation shall be credited
to a Participant s Deferral Account as of the day it would otherwise have been paid to
the Participant. Stock Option Gain Compensation will be credited to a Participant s
Deferral Account as of the stock option exercise date. All periodic credits to a
Participant s Deferral Account under the Fund Options shall be in share equivalents of
the Fund Options. All periodic credits to a Participant s Deferral Account under the
Common Stock Earnings Option shall be in share equivalents of Common Stock. The number
of share equivalents of Common Stock credited to a Deferral Account for Compensation
or Stock Option Gain Compensation allocated to the Common Stock Earnings Option shall
be determined by dividing the amount so allocated by the New York Stock Exchange-only
closing price per share of Common Stock on the day as of which the amount is credited
(or, if the New York Stock Exchange is closed on that date, on the next preceding date
on which it is open). 

(C) 
       
      Increase or Decrease to Deferral Accounts . The value of a Participant s
Deferral Account will increase or decrease as follows: 

(1) 
       
      CD Option . The amount of the increase or decrease for the CD
Option for a particular calendar month is calculated based on the interest
rate as of the first business day of that month for a certificate of deposit
in such denomination and for such duration as is determined by the Plan
Administrator. 

7 

(2) 
       
      Fund Options . The amount of the increase or decrease for a
Fund Option is based on the performance for the selected Fund Option. 

(3) 
       
      Common Stock Earnings Option . The amount of the increase or
decrease for the Common Stock Earnings Option is based on the performance of
the Common Stock including dividends. Common Stock dividend equivalents will
be credited under the Common Stock Earnings Option at the same time and same
rate as dividends are paid on shares of Common Stock. Cash dividend
equivalents shall be converted to share equivalents based on the New York
Stock Exchange-only closing price per share of Common Stock on the last
business day prior to the dividend payment date (or, if the New York Stock
Exchange is closed on that date, on the next preceding date on which it
is open). 

8.           Distribution of Accounts Earned and Vested Prior to January 1, 2005 . Deferral Accounts
earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 (including all Deferral Accounts attributable to Stock
Option Gain Deferral Elections), shall be distributed in accordance with the applicable Deferral
Election or Stock Option Gain Deferral Election, subject to the following:

(A) 
       
      Lump Sum or Installment Distributions . The Participant must elect to receive
the balance of each Deferral Account in either a lump sum or in annual installments
over a period of years up to ten. 

(B) 
       
      Timing of Distribution . The Participant must designate on his or her
Deferral Election the year that distribution from the resulting Deferral Account
shall commence. For purposes of Stock Option Gain Deferral Elections, the
Participant may not elect to receive the distribution earlier than twelve (12)
months after the date on which the option is exercised. In all events, however,
distribution shall commence as soon as practicable after the March 1 immediately
following the date the Participant ceases to be employed by the Company and its
Affiliates. A Participant who is actively employed by the Company or an Affiliate
shall be permitted to make a one-time redeferral election to push back the timing
of distribution of a particular Deferral Year by selecting a new distribution
year that is at least three (3) years beyond the originally elected distribution
year and by completing an election form in a form provided by the Plan
Administrator at least twelve (12) months prior to the originally elected
distribution year. If a Participant redefers by electing a new distribution year
for a particular Deferral Year, that Deferral Account shall become subject to the
terms of the Plan in effect for Deferral Accounts earned and vested prior to
January 1, 2005 at the time of the new distribution election including the early
withdrawal provisions. An election of a new distribution year shall not change
the form of distribution (lump sum or installments) originally selected on the
Participant s Deferral Election. 

(C) 
       
      Upon Death . If a Participant dies before receiving all payments under the
Plan, payment of the balance in the Participant s Deferral Accounts shall be made to
the Participant s designated beneficiary in the forms of distribution elected by the
Participant on the Participant s Deferral Elections as soon as practicable after the
March 1 following the date of the Participant s death. To be valid, a beneficiary
designation must be in writing and the written designation must have been delivered to
and accepted by the Plan Administrator prior to the Participant s death. 

If at the time of the Participant s death the Company is not in possession of a
fully effective beneficiary designation form, or if the designated beneficiary does
not survive the Participant, the 

8 

Participant s beneficiary shall be the person or persons surviving the Participant
in the first of the following classes in which there is a survivor. If a person in
the class surviving dies before receiving the balance of the Participant s Deferral
Accounts (or the person s share of such Participant s Deferral Account balance in
the case of more than one person in the class), that person s right to receive the
Participant s Deferral Account balance will lapse and the determination of who will
be entitled to receive the Participant s Deferral Account balance will be made as if
that person predeceased the Participant. 

(1) 
       
     Participant s surviving spouse. 

(2) 
       
     Participant s surviving same-sex spouse. 

(3) 
       
     Participant s surviving domestic partner. 

(4) 
       
     Equally to the Participant s children, except that if any of
the Participant s children predeceases the Participant but leave descendants
surviving, such descendants shall take by right of representation the share
their parent would have taken if living. 

(5) 
       
     Participant s surviving parents equally. 

(6) 
       
     Participant s surviving brothers and sisters equally. 

(7) 
       
     Participant s estate. 

(D) 
       
      Transitional Rule . Notwithstanding the foregoing distribution rules
contained in this Section 8, a Participant who was employed by the Company on
January 1, 2000 and who entered into a Deferral Election for a Deferral Year
prior to January 1, 2000 or had a Transferred Account (collectively  Prior
Deferral Elections ) and who had not commenced distribution of such Prior
Deferral Election prior to January 1, 2000, was given a one-time opportunity
effective January 1, 2000 to elect to change the method of distribution (lump
sum versus installments) or to postpone the distribution commencement date for a
Prior Deferral Election for a period of at least one year from the original
distribution commencement date selected on the Prior Deferral Election. To be
effective, such change had to be submitted to the Plan Administrator on a form
provided by the Plan Administrator by December 31, 1999, or if earlier, a date
required by the Plan Administrator. If the change was not submitted by December
31, 1999, the method and timing of distribution elected on the Prior Deferral
Election remained in effect. If the Participant elected to make a change to a
Prior Deferral Election, the amount deferred under the Prior Deferral Election
and all earnings attributable to that Prior Deferral Election became subject to
the distribution rules contained in this Section 8 and the timing and form of
distribution selected on the Prior Deferral Election was no longer applicable
with respect to distributions on account of termination of employment,
retirement or disability. For purposes of a Prior Deferral Election made under
this Plan,  retirement  means the Participant s termination of employment with
the Company after the Participant s attainment of regular or early retirement as
defined in Section 6.1 or 6.2 of the Norwest Corporation Pension Plan in effect
on June 30, 1999. Also, for purposes of Prior Deferral Elections made under this
Plan,  disability  means the Participant s total disability as described in the
Wells Fargo   Company Long-Term Disability Plan, as amended from time to time. 

9 

(E) 
       
      Form of Distributions . All distributions from Deferral Accounts shall be payable as
follows: 

(1) 
       
     in cash, for all Deferral Accounts in an earnings option other than the Common
Stock Earnings Option; or 

(2) 
       
     in shares of Common Stock (and cash for any fractional
share), for the portion of the Deferral Accounts in the Common Stock Earnings
Option. 

(F) 
       
      Valuation of Deferral Accounts for Distribution . 

(1) 
       
     The amount of the distribution in cash and/or Common Stock
shall be determined based on the Participant s Deferral Account balance (and,
if applicable, the price of Common Stock) as of the close of business on March
1 of the year of distribution (or the next following business day if March 1
is not a business day). The amount of the distribution in cash and/or Common
Stock as of any other date on which a distribution is made shall be determined
based on the Participant s Deferral Account balance (and, if applicable, the
price of Common Stock) as of the close of business on the last business day of
the month in which the event which triggers distribution occurs. Earnings
adjustments to amounts that have been valued for distribution shall cease as
of the date used to value such amounts. 

(2) 
       
     The amount of each installment payment will be based on the
value of the Participant s Deferral Account as of the close of business on
March 1 of the year of the installment payment (or the next following
business day if March 1 is not a business day) and the number of the
installments remaining. The balance remaining in the Deferral Account shall
continue to be adjusted based on the earnings option(s) among which the
Deferral Account is allocated until the valuation date used to determine the
amount of the last payment. All installment payments will be made by pro
rata distributions from each earnings option. 

(G) 
       
      Early Withdrawal . Effective January 1, 2004, the Plan will not allow early
withdrawals for any reason from Deferral Accounts attributable to Deferral Years
commencing on or after January 1, 2004 and to Deferral Accounts attributable to
Deferral Years commencing prior to January 1, 2004 that were subject to a change in
the time of distribution election made pursuant to Section 8(B). A Participant or
beneficiary who wishes to receive payment of all or part of the Participant s other
Deferral Accounts for Deferral Years prior to 2004 on a date earlier than that
specified in the Deferral Election or in the case of a beneficiary in accordance with
Section 8(C), may do so by filing with the Plan Administrator a request for early
withdrawal. Such payment will be made from the earliest Deferral Year(s) in which the
Participant has participated in the Plan. Partial withdrawals of a given Deferral
Year s deferral are not permitted. Deferral Accounts will be distributed in the order
in which the accounts were established. Stock Option Gain Compensation deferrals will
be distributed in the order in which the accounts were established following the
distribution of all funds from the Compensation Deferrals. For the appropriate
Deferral Year(s), account accruals to date shall be disbursed completely, less a 10%
early withdrawal penalty on the amount distributed. The 10% penalty assessed for
early withdrawal will be permanently forfeited by the Participant and will be
credited to the account of the Company. Further, the Participant shall forfeit
eligibility to defer Compensation under this Plan during the two Deferral Years
following the year in which the early withdrawal is made, but in no case shall an
early withdrawal cause a current Deferral Election (either of Compensation or Stock
Option Gain Compensation) to be suspended or canceled. In no case may a Participant
or beneficiary make more than one early withdrawal per calendar year. 

10 

(H) 
       
      Accounts Less Than $25,000 . Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this
Section 8, if the aggregate value of the Participant s Deferral Accounts attributable
to (a) Deferral Elections made for Deferral Years commencing on or after January 1,
2000, (b) Deferral Elections made on July 1, 1999 by transferred BRP Participants, and
(c) any Prior Deferral Elections that became subject to the terms of this Plan in
accordance with Section 8 (D), is less than $25,000 at the end of the month in which
the Participant s employment terminates, then the portion of such Deferral Accounts
subject to the distribution rules in this Section 8 shall be paid in a lump sum as
soon as practicable after the March 1 immediately following the Participant s
termination date. 

(I) 
       
      Definitions Relating to Marital Status.  For all purposes under this Plan,
the following terms have the meanings assigned to them below: 

(1) 
       
     The term  spouse  means a person of the opposite gender from
the Participant who is legally married to the Participant at the relevant time
under the laws of the state in which they reside and who satisfies the
requirements under 1 U.S. Code Section 7 for being treated as a spouse for
purposes of federal law. 

(2) 
       
     The term  same-sex spouse  means a person of the same gender as
the Participant who at the relevant time either (i) is recognized as being
legally married to the Participant under the laws of the state or country in
which the relationship was created, or (ii) is a person who has joined with the
Participant in a civil union that is recognized as creating some or all of the
rights of marriage under the laws of the state or country in which the
relationship was created. 

(3) 
       
     The term  domestic partner  means a person who is not the
spouse or same-sex spouse of the Participant as defined in subsections (1) and
(2) above, but who at the relevant time is the Participant s significant other
(together referred to as  partners ) with whom the Participant lives and shares
financial responsibility. A domestic partner may be the same gender or
opposite gender. A person will be considered a domestic partner of the
Participant if the Participant or other person can provide a domestic
partnership certificate to the Company from a city, county or state which
offers the ability to register a domestic partnership. If the Participant and
domestic partner reside in an area where such a certificate is not available or
if the Participant and domestic partner elect not to register their domestic
partnership, a person will not be considered a domestic partner unless the
Participant and/or domestic partner provides sufficient evidence to the Company
that all of the following requirements are satisfied: 

(a) 
       
     The partners have had a single, dedicated
relationship for at least six months and intend to remain in the
relationship indefinitely. 

(b) 
       
     The partners share the same permanent residence
and have done so for at least six months. 

(c) 
       
     The partners are not related by blood or a
degree of closeness which would prohibit marriage under the law of the
state in which they reside. 

11 

(d) 
       
     Neither partner is married to another person
under either statutory or common law, and neither has a same-sex spouse
or is a member of another domestic partnership. 

(e) 
       
     Each partner is mentally competent to consent
or contract. 

(f) 
       
     Both partners are at least 18 years of age. 

(g) 
       
     The partners are financially interdependent,
are jointly responsible for each other s basic living expenses, and are
able to provide documents proving at least three of the following
situations to demonstrate such financial interdependence: 

(i) 
       
     Joint ownership of real property
or a common leasehold interest in real property. 

(ii) 
       
     Common ownership of an automobile. 

(iii) 
       
     Joint bank or credit accounts. 

(iv) 
       
     A will which designates the other as primary beneficiary. 

(v) 
       
     A beneficiary designation form
for a retirement plan or life insurance policy signed and
completed to the effect that one partner is a beneficiary of the
other. 

(vi) 
       
     Designation of one partner as
holding power of attorney for health care needs of the other. 

9.           Distribution of Accounts Not Earned and Vested Prior to January 1, 2005 . Deferral
Accounts
not earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 shall be distributed in accordance with the
applicable Deferral
Election, subject to the following:

(A) 
       
      Lump Sum or Installment Distributions . The Participant must elect to receive
the balance of each Deferral Account in either a lump sum or in annual installments
over a period of years up to ten. 

(B) 
       
      Timing of Distribution . The Participant must designate on his or her
Deferral Election the year that distribution from the resulting Deferral Account
shall commence. Distribution will commence on or as soon as practicable after
March 1 of the distribution commencement year, but not later than December 31 of
that year. If the Participant elected to receive installments, distribution of
each subsequent annual installment shall occur on or as soon as practicable
after March 1 of the installment year, but not later than December 31 of that
year. If distribution does not commence earlier pursuant to the preceding
provisions of this Section 9(B) or due to Section 9(C) or Section 9(D) below,
distribution shall commence on or as soon as practicable after the March 1
immediately following, the Participant s Separation from Service if the
Participant is not a Key Employee but not later than December 31 of that year. 

If the Participant is a Key Employee, distribution shall commence on or as
soon as practicable after the later of the March 1 immediately following the
Participant s 

12 

Separation from Service or six months after the Participant s Separation from
Service. (For example, if a Key Employee had a Separation from Service on
October 1, 2008, a distribution attributable to that Key Employee s
Separation from Service would commence on or as soon as practicable after
April 1, 2009, which is a date six months immediately following the
Participant s Separation from Service.) 

(C) 
       
      Redeferral . A Participant who has not had a Separation from Service may
elect to delay the distribution of any one or more of such Participant s
Deferral Accounts, subject to the provisions of Section 9(B) above regarding
payment following Separation from Service, by electing a new distribution
commencement year that is at least five (5) years beyond the originally elected
distribution commencement year. Any such redeferral election shall be made by
filing an election on a form and in the manner provided by the Plan
Administrator at least twelve (12) months prior to the originally elected
distribution year and shall not take effect until at least 12 months after the
date on which it is filed. A redeferral election shall not change the form of
distribution (lump sum or installments) originally selected on the Participant s
Deferral Election for the relevant Deferral Account. Only one redeferral
election shall be permitted for any Deferral Account. 

(D) 
       
      Upon Death . If a Participant dies before receiving all payments under the
Plan, payment of the balance in the Participant s Deferral Accounts shall be made to
the Participant s designated beneficiary in the forms of distribution elected by the
Participant on the Participant s Deferral Elections. If payment of a Deferral Account
commenced prior to the Participant s death, payments from that Deferral Account after
the Participant s death shall be made to the Participant s designated beneficiary
when they would have been made to the Participant if the Participant had survived. If
payment of a Deferral Account did not commence prior to the Participant s death,
payments from that Deferral Account after the Participant s death shall commence as
soon as practicable after the March 1 following the date of the Participant s death.
To be valid, a beneficiary designation must be in writing and the written designation
must have been delivered to and accepted by the Plan Administrator prior to the
Participant s death. 

If at the time of the Participant s death the Plan Administrator is not in
possession of a fully effective beneficiary designation form, or if the designated
beneficiary does not survive the Participant, the Participant s beneficiary shall
be the person or persons surviving the Participant in the first of the following
classes in which there is a survivor. Except as provided in (d) below, if any such
surviving person dies before receiving the balance of the Participant s Deferral
Accounts (or the person s share of such Participant s Deferral Account balance in
the case of more than one person in the class), that person s right to receive the
Participant s Deferral Account balance will lapse and the determination of who
will be entitled to receive the Participant s remaining (undistributed) Deferral
Account balance will be made as if that person predeceased the Participant. 

(1) 
       
     Participant s surviving spouse. 

(2) 
       
     Participant s
surviving same-sex spouse. 

(3) 
       
     Participant s surviving domestic
partner. 

(4) 
       
     Equally to the Participant s children, except that if any
of the Participant s children predeceases the Participant but leave
descendants surviving, such descendants shall 

13 

take by right of representation the share their parent would have taken
if living. 

(5) 
       
     Participant s surviving parents equally. 

(6) 
       
     Participant s surviving brothers and sisters
equally. 

(7) 
       
     Participant s estate. 

(E) 
       
      Form of Distributions . All distributions from Deferral Accounts shall be payable as
follows: 

(1) 
       
     in cash, for all Deferral Accounts in an earnings option other than the Common
Stock
Earnings Option; or 

(2) 
       
     in shares of Common Stock (and cash for any fractional
share), for the portion of the Deferral Accounts in the Common Stock Earnings
Option. 

(F) 
       
      Valuation of Deferral Accounts for Distribution . 

(1) 
       
     The amount of the distribution in cash and/or Common Stock
shall be determined based on the Participant s Deferral Account balance as of
the close of business on March 1 of the year of distribution (or the next
following business day if March 1 is not a business day). Earnings adjustments
to amounts that have been valued for distribution shall cease as of the date
used to value such amounts. 

(2) 
       
     The amount of each installment payment will be based on the
value of the Participant s Deferral Account as of the close of business on
March 1 of the year of the installment payment (or the next following
business day if March 1 is not a business day) and the number of the
installments remaining. The balance remaining in the Deferral Account shall
continue to be adjusted based on the earnings option(s) among which the
Deferral Account is allocated until the valuation date used to determine the
amount of the last payment. All installment payments will be made by pro
rata distributions from each earnings option. 

(G) 
       
      Early Withdrawal . Early withdrawals are not permitted for any reason. 

(H) 
       
      Definitions Relating to Marital Status . For purposes of this Section 9, the
following terms have the meanings assigned to them below: 

(1) 
       
     The term  spouse  means a person of the opposite gender from
the Participant who is legally married to the Participant at the relevant time
under the laws of the state in which they reside and who satisfies the
requirements under 1 U.S. Code  7 for being treated as a spouse for purposes
of federal law. 

(2) 
       
     The term  same-sex spouse  means a person of the same
gender as the Participant who at the relevant time either (i) is recognized
as being legally married to the Participant under the laws of the state or
country in which the relationship was created, or (ii) is a person who has
joined with the Participant in a civil union that is recognized as creating
some or all of the rights of marriage under the laws of the state or country
in which the relationship was created. 

14 

(3) 
       
     The term  domestic partner  means a person who is not the
spouse or same-sex spouse of the Participant as defined in subsections (1) and
(2) above, but who at the relevant time is the Participant s significant other
(together referred to as  partners ) with whom the Participant lives and shares
financial responsibility. A domestic partner may be the same gender or
opposite gender. A person will be considered a domestic partner of the
Participant if the Participant or other person can provide a domestic
partnership certificate to the Company from a city, county or state which
offers the ability to register a domestic partnership. If the Participant and
domestic partner reside in an area where such a certificate is not available,
a person will not be considered a domestic partner unless the Participant
and/or domestic partner provides sufficient evidence to the Company that all
of the following requirements are satisfied: 

(a) 
       
     The partners have had a single, dedicated
relationship for at least six months and intend to remain in the
relationship indefinitely. 

(b) 
       
     The partners share the same permanent
residence and have done so for at least six months. 

(c) 
       
     The partners are not related by blood or a
degree of closeness which would prohibit marriage under the law of
the state in which they reside. 

(d) 
       
     Neither partner is married to another person
under either statutory or common law, and neither has a same-sex
spouse or is a member of another domestic partnership. 

(e) 
       
     Each partner is mentally competent to consent or
contract. 

(f) 
       
     Both partners are at least 18 years of age. 

(g) 
       
     The partners are financially
interdependent, are jointly responsible for each other s basic living
expenses, and are able to provide documents proving at least three of
the following situations to demonstrate such financial interdependence: 

(i) 
       
     Joint ownership of real
property or a common leasehold interest in real property. 

(ii) 
       
     Common ownership of an automobile. 

(iii) 
       
     Joint bank or credit accounts. 

(iv) 
       
     A will which designates the other as primary beneficiary. 

(v) 
       
     A beneficiary designation form
for a retirement plan or life insurance policy signed and
completed to the effect that one partner is a beneficiary of
the other. 

(vi) 
       
     Designation of one partner as
holding a power of attorney for health care needs of the
other. 

15 

(I) 
       
      Accounts Less Than Code    402(g)   Threshold . Notwithstanding the foregoing
provisions of this Section 9, if 

(1) 
       
     the aggregate value of the Participant s Deferral Accounts
that are subject to the distribution rules in this Section 9 due to
Separation from Service or death is less than the applicable dollar amount
under Code  402(g)(1)(B) as of the end of the month following the
Participant s Separation from Service or death, and 

(2) 
       
     a lump sum payment of the value referred to in (1) above
would result in the termination and liquidation of the entirety of the
Participant s interest under the Plan and any other agreements, methods,
programs or other arrangements with respect to which deferrals of compensation
are treated as having been deferred under a single nonqualified deferred
compensation plan under Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(c)(2), taking into account only
such interests as are subject to Code  409A, 

then the value referred to in (1) above shall be distributed in a single lump sum
on the date that the first payment would occur pursuant to the foregoing
provisions of this Section 9. 

10.          Nonassignability . No Participant or beneficiary shall have any interest in any accounts
under this Plan that can be transferred, nor shall any Participant or beneficiary have any power
to anticipate, alienate, dispose of, pledge or encumber the same while in the possession or
control of the Company, nor shall the Company recognize any assignment thereof, either in whole or
in part, nor shall any account be subject to attachment, garnishment, execution following judgment
or other legal process while in the possession or control of the Company. The designation of a
beneficiary by a Participant does not constitute a transfer.

11.          Withholding of Taxes . Distributions under this Plan shall be subject to the deduction of
the amount of any federal, state, or local income taxes, Social Security tax, Medicare tax, or
other taxes required to be withheld from such payments by applicable laws and regulations.

12.          Unsecured Obligation . The obligation of the Company to make payments under this Plan
constitutes only the unsecured (but legally enforceable) promise of the Company to make such
payments. The Participant shall have no lien, prior claim or other security interest in any
property of the Company. The Company is not required to establish or maintain any fund, trust or
account (other than a bookkeeping account or reserve) for the purpose of funding or paying the
benefits promised under this Plan. If such a fund is established, the property therein shall
remain the sole and exclusive property of the Company. The Company will pay the cost of this Plan
out of its general assets. All references to accounts, accruals, gains, losses, income, expenses,
payments, custodial funds and the like are included merely for the purpose of measuring the
Company s obligation to Participants in this Plan and shall not be construed to impose on the
Company the obligation to create any separate fund for purposes of this Plan.

13.          Trust Fund . If the Company chooses to fund credits to Participants  accounts, all cash
contributed for such funding shall be held and administered in trust in accordance with the terms
and provisions of a trust agreement between the Company and the appointed trustee or any duly
appointed successor trustee. All Common Stock or other funds in the trust shall be held on a
commingled basis and shall be subject to the claims of the general creditors of the Company. Plan
accounts shall be for bookkeeping purposes only, and the establishment of Plan accounts shall not
require segregation of trust assets.

14.          No Guarantee of Employment . Participation in this Plan does not constitute a guarantee
or contract of employment with the Company or any of the Company s Affiliates. Such
participation shall in no way interfere with any right of the Company or any Affiliate to
determine the duration of a Participant s employment or the terms and conditions of such
employment.

16 

15.          Administration . The Plan Administrator or its delegate shall have the exclusive
authority and responsibility for all matters in connection with the operation and administration
of the Plan. The Plan Administrator s powers and duties shall include, but shall not be limited
to, the following: (a) responsibility for the compilation and maintenance of all records
necessary in connection with the Plan; (b) discretionary authority to interpret the terms of the
Plan; (c) authorizing the payment of all benefits and expenses of the Plan as they become
payable under the Plan; (d) authority to engage such legal, accounting and other professional
services as it may deem necessary; (e) authority to adopt rules and procedures for implementing
the Plan; (f) discretionary authority to determine Participants  eligibility for benefits under
the Plan; (g) set limits on the percentage or amount of Compensation that may be deferred in a
Deferral Year; and (h) to resolve all issues of fact and law in connection with such
determinations. The decision of the Plan Administrator on any matter affecting the Plan or the
rights and obligations arising under the Plan shall be final and binding upon all persons.

16.          Common Stock . Subject to adjustment as provided in this Section 16, the maximum number
of shares of Common Stock that may be credited under the Plan is 16,000,000. If the Company shall
at any time increase or decrease the number of its outstanding shares of Common Stock or change
in any way the rights and privileges of such shares by means of the payment of a stock dividend
or any other distribution upon such shares payable in Common Stock, or through a stock split,
subdivision, consolidation, combination, reclassification, or recapitalization involving the
Common Stock, then the numbers, rights, and privileges of the shares issuable under the Plan
shall be increased, decreased, or changed in like manner as if such shares had been issued and
outstanding, fully paid, and non-assessable at the time of such occurrence.

17.          Claims Procedure . The Company shall establish a claims procedure consistent with the
requirements of ERISA. Such claims procedure shall provide adequate notice in writing to any
Participant or beneficiary whose claim for benefits under the Plan has been denied, setting
forth the specific reasons for such denial, written in a manner calculated to be understood by
the claimant and shall afford a reasonable opportunity to a claimant whose claim for benefits
has been denied for a full and fair review by the Company of the decision denying the claim.
Claims must be submitted in writing within one year after the claimant first knew or should
have known the facts essential to the claim. A person claiming a benefit under the Plan may
not initiate a civil action regarding the claim unless: (a) a claim was timely submitted; (b)
all steps under the claims procedure (including appeals) were completed; and (c) the civil
action is commenced within one year after completion of the claims procedure.

18.          Construction and Applicable Law . This Plan is intended to be construed and administered
as an unfunded plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a
select group of management or highly compensated employees as provided under ERISA. The Plan shall
be construed and administered according to the laws of the State of Minnesota (other than its laws
regarding choice of law) to the extent that such laws are not preempted by ERISA.

19.          Agent for Legal Process . The Company shall be agent for service of legal process with
respect to any matter concerning the Plan, unless and until the Company designates some other
person as such agent.

17 

20.          Amendment . The Board of Directors of the Company or the Human Resources Committee of the
Company s Board of Directors may at any time amend this Plan in any manner; provided, however,
that if necessary to maintain the availability of the exemption contained in Rule 16b-3, or any
successor regulation, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for transactions
pursuant to this Plan, the provisions of this Plan relating to the amount, price and timing of
awards pursuant to this Plan may not be amended more than once in every six months other than to
comport with changes in the Internal Revenue Code or ERISA, or the rules thereunder.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Chief Executive Officer, Director of Human Resources or the
Senior Vice President of Compensation and Benefits, acting singly, shall have the authority to
execute a written action to amend the Plan to authorize the merger of any nonqualified deferred
compensation plan maintained by any acquired entity into this Plan.

21.          Termination or Suspension . The Board of Directors of the Company or the Human Resources
Committee of the Company s Board of Directors may at any time suspend or terminate this Plan. In
the event that the Plan is terminated, the Deferral Accounts of all Participants (whether or not
currently in distribution status) shall be paid in the form originally elected by the Participant
to commence as soon as practicable after the March 1 following the date the Plan is terminated or
shall be paid under some other method as determined by the Plan Administrator; provided, however,
that accelerated distribution of Deferral Accounts subject to Section 9 shall only be permitted on
account of Plan termination in accordance with Treas. Reg.  1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix), which generally
permits:

(A) 
       
     accelerated payment pursuant to a termination and liquidation of the Plan if
that occurs within 12 months of a corporate dissolution or bankruptcy; 

(B) 
       
     termination and liquidation of the Plan pursuant to irrevocable action
taken during the period commencing 30 days before and ending 12 months after a
change in control event within the meaning of Treas. Reg.  1.409A-3(i)(5), but
only if all deferred compensation arrangements sponsored by the Company and its
Affiliates that are treated as a single plan under Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(c)(2)
that includes this Plan are terminated and liquidated with respect to every
participant who experienced such change in control event, and all amounts payable
under such single plan for such participants are paid within 12 months after the
irrevocable action is taken; or 

(C) 
       
     termination and liquidation of the Plan, provided: 

(1) 
       
     the termination and liquidation is not proximate to a
downturn in the financial health of the Company and its Affiliates, 

(2) 
       
     the Company and its Affiliates also terminate and liquidate
all other deferral arrangements that would be aggregated with the Plan under
Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(c)(2); 

(3) 
       
     no accelerated payments are made within 12 months after
irrevocable action is taken to terminate and liquidate the Plan, 

(4) 
       
     all payments are made within 24 months after all necessary
action is taken to irrevocably terminate and liquidate the Plan, and 

(5) 
       
     during the three years after such irrevocable action is
taken the Company and its Affiliates do not adopt a new plan that would be
aggregated with the Plan under Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(c)(2) if the Plan still
existed. 

18 

The foregoing provisions of this Section 21 shall not prohibit the earlier distribution of any
Deferral Account in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.

22.          Severability.  If any provision of the Plan is determined to be illegal or invalid (in
whole or in part) for any reason, or if legislative, Internal Revenue Service, Department of
Labor, court or other action is at risk of causing a provision to be interpreted so as to cause
Participants in the Plan to be in constructive receipt of amounts in their Deferral Accounts for
U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the provision had
not been included in the Plan.

THE REST OF THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 

19 

APPENDIX A 

Transferred Accounts   

Section 1.            The Wells Fargo   Company Benefit Restoration Program  . The Wells Fargo   Company
Benefit Restoration Program ( BRP ) merged into this Plan effective July 1, 1999. The transferred
BRP accounts are held in a  Transferred Account  set up under this Plan for each participant in BRP
who had a BRP account as of June 30, 1999. Each BRP participant who has a Transferred Account set
up under this Plan is considered a Participant in this Plan effective July 1, 1999 but will not be
able to enter into Deferral Elections unless the Participant is also an Eligible Employee as
provided in this Plan. If the Participant is not an employee of the Company on January 1, 2000, the
Participant s Transferred Account as of the first day of a quarter (less any distributions made
from the Transferred Account during the quarter) shall be adjusted with interest for that quarter.
Interest on the Transferred Account will be calculated quarterly at an annual rate equal to the sum
of the average annual rate for 3-year Treasury Notes for the immediately preceding calendar year
plus two percent. If the Participant is an employee of the Company on January 1, 2000, the
Participant must elect earnings options for the Transferred Account in accordance with Section 7 of
the Plan. If the Participant does not elect earnings options, the Participant s Transferred Account
shall be treated as having been allocated to the  Balanced Fund  Fund Option. Distribution of the
Participant s Transferred Account will be made in either a lump sum or in ten annual installments
as elected by the Participant under BRP. If the Participant elected a lump sum payment, payment
will be made as soon as feasible after the Participant terminates employment. If the Participant
elected installments, installments will begin in January following the calendar year in which the
Participant terminates employment. If, however, the Transferred Account balance is less than $5,000
at the time of the Participant terminates employment, distribution will be made in a lump sum as
soon as administratively feasible after the Participant terminates employment. The transitional
rules under Section 8(D) of the Plan apply to the Transferred Account. In the event the Participant
dies before distribution of his or her entire Transferred Account, the remaining balance shall be
paid pursuant to Section 8(C) of the Plan.

Section 2.            Mortgage Plans  . The Norwest Corporation Elective Deferred Compensation Plan for
Mortgage Banking Executives, the Norwest Mortgage Banking Incentive Compensation and Deferral Plan
and the Norwest Mortgage Banking Deferral Plan (collectively the  Mortgage Plans ) are merged into
this Plan effective as of January 1, 2000. The transferred Mortgage Plans accounts shall be held in
a  Transferred Account  set up under this Plan for each participant in the Mortgage Plans who had
an account as of December 31, 1999. Each Mortgage Plans participant who has a Transferred Account
set up under this Plan shall be considered a Participant in this Plan effective January 1, 2000 but
will not be able to enter into Deferral Elections unless the Participant is also an Eligible
Employee as provided in this Plan .  A Participant s Transferred Account shall be subject to the
rules of this Plan including the transitional rules in Section 8(D) of this Plan. In the event the
Participant dies before distribution of his or her entire Transferred Account, the remaining
balance shall be paid pursuant to Section 8(C) of this Plan.

Section 3.            The Wells Fargo   Company 1997 Bonus Deferral Plan  . The Wells Fargo   Company
1997 Bonus Deferral Plan ( Bonus Deferral Plan ) is merged into this Plan effective as of January
1, 2000 with respect to participants in the Bonus Deferral Plan who are employed by the Company on
January 1, 2000. The transferred Bonus Deferral Plan accounts shall be held in a  Transferred
Account  set up under this Plan for each participant in the Bonus Deferral Plan who had an account
as of December 31, 1999 and was employed by the Company on January 1, 2000. Each Bonus Deferral
Plan participant who has a Transferred Account set up under this Plan shall be considered a
Participant in this Plan effective January 1, 2000 but will not be able to enter into Deferral
Elections unless the Participant is also an Eligible Employee as provided in this Plan .  A
Participant s Transferred Account shall be subject to the rules of this Plan including the
transitional rules in Section 8(D) of this Plan. In the event the

Participant dies before distribution of his or her entire Transferred Account, the remaining
balance shall be paid pursuant to Section 8(C) of this Plan.

Section 4.            Ragen MacKenzie Group Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan  . The Ragen
MacKenzie Group Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Ragen Plan ) is merged into this Plan
effective July 1, 2000. The transferred Ragen Plan accounts shall be held in a  Transferred
Account  set up under this Plan for each participant in the Ragen Plan who had an account as of
June 30, 2000. Each Ragen Plan participant who has a Transferred Account set up under this Plan
shall be considered a Participant in this Plan effective July 1, 2000, but will not be able to
enter into Deferral Elections unless the Participant is also an Eligible Employee as provided in
this Plan. A Participant s Transferred Account shall be subject to the rules of this Plan. In the
event the Participant dies before distribution of his or her entire Transferred Account, the
remaining balance shall be paid pursuant to Section 8(C) of this Plan.

Section 5.            National Bank of Alaska Deferred Compensation Plan  . The National Bank of Alaska
Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Alaska Plan ) is merged into this Plan effective August 1, 2000.
The transferred Alaska Plan accounts shall be held in a  Transferred Account  set up under this
Plan for each participant in the Alaska Plan who had an account as of July 31, 2000. Each Alaska
Plan participant who has a Transferred Account set up under this Plan shall be considered a
Participant in this Plan effective August 1, 2000, but will not be able to enter into Deferral
Elections unless the Participant is also an Eligible Employee as provided in this Plan. A
Participant s Transferred Account shall be subject to the rules of this Plan. In the event the
Participant dies before distribution of his or her entire Transferred Account, the remaining
balance shall be paid pursuant to Section 8(C) of this Plan.

Section 6.            First Commerce Supplemental Executive Retirement and Deferred Compensation Plan and
Trust Agreement  . The First Commerce Supplemental Executive Retirement and Deferred Compensation
Plan and Trust Agreement (the  First Commerce Plan ) is merged into the Plan effective January 1,
2001. The transferred First Commerce Plan accounts shall be held in a  Transferred Account  set up
under the Plan for each participant in the First Commerce Plan who had an account as of December
31, 2000. Each First Commerce Plan participant who has a Transferred Account set up under the Plan
shall be considered a Participant in the Plan effective January 1, 2001, but will not be able to
enter into Deferral Elections unless the Participant is also an Eligible Employee as provided in
the Plan. A Participant s Transferred Account shall be subject to the rules of the Plan. In the
event the Participant dies before distribution of his or her entire Transferred Account, the
remaining balance shall be paid pursuant to Section 8(C) of the Plan.

Section 7.            Brenton Banks, Inc. Executive Savings Plan  . The Brenton Banks, Inc. Executive
Savings Plan (the  Brenton Plan ) is merged into the Plan effective January 1, 2001. The
transferred Brenton Plan accounts shall be held in a  Transferred Account  set up under the Plan
for each participant in the Brenton Plan who had an account as of December 31, 2000. Each Brenton
Plan participant who has a Transferred Account set up under the Plan shall be considered a
Participant in the Plan effective January 1, 2001, but will not be able to enter into Deferral
Elections unless the Participant is also an Eligible Employee as provided in the Plan. A
Participant s Transferred Account shall be subject to the rules of the Plan. In the event the
Participant dies before distribution of his or her entire Transferred Account, the remaining
balance shall be paid pursuant to Section 8(C) of the Plan.

Section 8.            First Security Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan  . The First
Security Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the  First Security Plan ) was
terminated effective October 30, 2000. The account balances of participants in the First Security
Plan who elected to defer distribution of their First Security Plan accounts as a result of the
First Security Plan termination shall be transferred to the Plan and held in Transferred Accounts
set up under the Plan as soon as administratively practical after October 30, 2000. The

2 

transferred First Security Plan accounts shall be held in a  Transferred Account  set up under this
Plan for each participant in the First Security Plan who made a special deferral election. Each
First Security Plan participant who has a Transferred Account set up under the Plan shall be
considered a Participant in the Plan effective as of the date the Transferred Account is
established, but not be able to enter into a Deferral Election until January 1, 2001 if the
Participant is also an Eligible Employee as provided in the Plan as of January 1, 2001. A
Participant s Transferred Account shall be subject to the rules of this Plan. In the event the
Participant dies before distribution of his or her entire Transferred Account, the remaining
balance shall be paid pursuant to Section 8(C) of the Plan.

Section 9.            Norwest Financial, Inc. Employees  Deferred Compensation Plan  . All accounts
under the Norwest Financial, Inc. Employees  Deferred Compensation Plan (the  NFI Plan ) for
actively employed NFI Plan participants are transferred to the Plan effective January 1, 2001. The
transferred NFI Plan accounts shall be held in a  Transferred Account  set up under the Plan for
each active participant in the NFI Plan who had an account as of December 31, 2000. Each NFI Plan
participant who has a Transferred Account set up under the Plan shall be considered a Participant
in the Plan effective January 1, 2001, but will not be able to enter into Deferral Elections unless
the Participant is also an Eligible Employee as provided in the Plan. A Participant s Transferred
Account shall be subject to the rules of the Plan. In the event the Participant dies before
distribution of his or her entire Transferred Account, the remaining balance shall be paid pursuant
to Section 8(C) of the Plan.

Section 10.           Norwest Corporation Executive Incentive Compensation Plan  . The Norwest
Corporation Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (the  EICP ) is merged into the Plan effective
January 1, 2002. The transferred EICP accounts shall be held in a  Transferred Account  set up
under the Plan for each participant in the EICP who had an account as of December 31, 2001. Each
EICP participant who has a Transferred Account set up under the Plan shall be considered a
Participant in the Plan. A Participant s Transferred Account shall be subject to the rules of the
Plan except that (i) distribution to the Participant of the Transferred Account (valued as of
December 31 of the calendar year in which the Participant terminates employment or becomes
disabled) attributable to the EICP shall be made in a lump sum in whole shares of Common Stock
(with cash in lieu of a fractional share) as soon as practicable after the calendar year in which
the Participant terminates employment or becomes disabled ( disabled  means the Participant is
unable to perform his or her job for a continuous period of six months), and (ii) the Transferred
Account shall only be allocated to the Common Stock Earnings Option. In the event the Participant
dies before distribution of his or her entire Transferred Account, the remaining balance shall be
paid pursuant to Section 8(C) of the Plan.

Section 11.           Norwest Corporation Employees  Stock Deferral Plan  . The Norwest Corporation
Employees  Stock Deferral Plan (the  ESDP ) is merged into the Plan effective January 1, 2002. The
transferred ESDP accounts shall be held in a  Transferred Account  set up under the Plan for each
participant in the ESDP who had an account as of December 31, 2001. Each ESDP participant who has a
Transferred Account set up under the Plan shall be considered a Participant in the Plan. A
Participant s Transferred Account shall be subject to the rules of the Plan except that (i)
distribution to the Participant of the Transferred Account attributable to the ESDP (valued as of
December 31 of the calendar year in which the Participant terminates employment) shall be made in
accordance with the type of distribution (i.e., lump sum or installments) elected by the
Participant under the ESDP and shall be made (or commence in the case of installments) on or as
soon as practicable after the February 28 following the calendar year in which the Participant
terminates employment, (ii) in the event of a change in control as defined in the ESDP,
distribution to the Participant of the Transferred Account attributable to the ESDP shall be made
in accordance with the terms of the ESDP as those terms existed on December 31, 2001, and (iii) the
Transferred Account shall only be allocated to the Common Stock Earnings Option. In the event the
Participant dies before distribution of his or her entire Transferred Account, the remaining
balance shall be paid pursuant to Section 8(C) of the Plan.

3 

Section 12.           Acordia, Inc. Deferral Plan  . The Acordia, Inc. Deferral Plan (the  Deferral
Plan ) is merged into the Plan effective January 1, 2002. The transferred Deferral Plan accounts
shall be held in a  Transferred Account  set up under the Plan for each participant in the Deferral
Plan who had an account as of December 31, 2001. Each Deferral Plan participant who has a
Transferred Account set up under the Plan shall be considered a Participant in the Plan. A
Participant s Transferred Account shall be subject to the rules of the Plan. In the event the
Participant dies before distribution of his or her entire Transferred Account, the remaining
balance shall be paid pursuant to Section 8(C) of the Plan.

Section 13.           Acordia Services Frozen Producers  Deferred Compensation Plan  . The Acordia
Services Frozen Producers  Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Producers  Deferred Plan ) is merged
into the Plan effective January 1, 2002. The transferred Producers  Deferred Plan accounts shall be
held in a  Transferred Account  set up under the Plan for each participant in the Producers 
Deferred Plan who had an account as of December 31, 2001. Each Producers  Deferred Plan participant
who has a Transferred Account set up under the Plan shall be considered a Participant in the Plan.
A Participant s Transferred Account shall be subject to the rules of the Plan. In the event the
Participant dies before distribution of his or her entire Transferred Account, the remaining
balance shall be paid pursuant to Section 8(C) of the Plan.

Section 14.           Acordia Services Frozen Deferred Compensation Plan  . The Acordia Services Frozen
Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Deferred Plan ) is merged into the Plan effective January 1, 2002.
The transferred Deferred Plan accounts shall be held in a  Transferred Account  set up under the
Plan for each participant in the Deferred Plan who had an account as of December 31, 2001. Each
Deferred Plan participant who has a Transferred Account set up under the Plan shall be considered a
Participant in the Plan. A Participant s Transferred Account shall be subject to the rules of the
Plan. In the event the Participant dies before distribution of his or her entire Transferred
Account, the remaining balance shall be paid pursuant to Section 8(C) of the Plan.

Section 15.           MBI and Affiliates Deferred Compensation Plan  . A portion of the MBI and
Affiliates Deferred Compensation Plan (the  MBI Deferred Plan ) comprising accounts for certain
employees of the Texas Financial Bancorporation acquisition is merged into the Plan effective
February 2, 2002. The transferred MBI Deferred Plan accounts shall be held in a  Transferred
Account  set up under the Plan. Each MBI Deferred Plan participant who has a Transferred Account
set up under the Plan shall be considered a Participant in the Plan. A Participant s Transferred
Account shall be subject to the rules of the Plan. In the event the Participant dies before
distribution of his or her entire Transferred Account, the remaining balance shall be paid pursuant
to Section 8(C) of the Plan.

4 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan  

Effective January 1, 2010 unless otherwise indicated below, the Wells Fargo   Company Deferred
Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) was amended as follows:

1.       The second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 1 of the Plan is amended to read in full
as follows:

The terms of this Restatement shall apply to: (i) deferred compensation that relates all or
in part to services performed on or after January 1, 2005, and (ii) deferred compensation that
relates entirely to services performed on or before December 31, 2004 if such amounts were not
earned or vested prior to January 1, 2005. 

2.       Section 2(G) of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read in full as follows:

(G)  Deferral Accounts . Bookkeeping accounts maintained for a Participant to which are
credited the amounts deferred under Deferral Elections, Stock Option Gain Deferral Elections and
amounts credited pursuant to Appendix B, together with any increase or decrease thereon, based on
the earnings option(s) selected by the Participant or mandated by the Plan.

3.       Section 2(H) of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read in full as follows:

(H)      Deferral Election . An irrevocable election made by an Eligible Employee during an
enrollment period specified by the Plan Administrator or the Plan to defer the receipt of
Compensation for a given Deferral Year. The term Deferral Election does not include a Stock Option
Gain Deferral Election or the automatic deferral of Company matching allocations credited pursuant
to Appendix B of the Plan.

4.       Section 2(J) of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read in full as follows:

(J)      Eligible Employee . Each employee of the Company or any of its Affiliates who has been
selected for participation in the Plan for a given Plan Year pursuant to Section 3 of the Plan
and/or who receives an allocation pursuant to Appendix B of the Plan for a given Plan Year.

5.       The first paragraph of Section 2(N) of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read in full as
follows:

(N)      Key Employee . If the Plan Administrator determines that the Participant is a  Key
Employee  for purposes of Code section 409A, no lump sum or installment payment shall be paid to
the Participant prior to the date that is six months after the date the Participant s Separation
from Service occurred.

6.       Section 2(O) of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read in full as follows:

(O)      Participant . Each Eligible Employee who enters into a Deferral Election, who receives an
allocation pursuant to Appendix B, who prior to 2004 entered into a Stock Option

Gain Deferral Election, or who has a Transferred Account set up under the Plan. An employee who
has become a Participant shall remain a Participant in the Plan until the date of the Participant s
death, or if earlier, the date the Participant no longer has any accounts under the Plan.

7.       Section 3 of the Plan is amended to add the following sentence immediately after the first
sentence in the paragraph to read in full as follows:

In addition, each employee of the Company or an Affiliate who receives an allocation pursuant
to Appendix B of the Plan for a given Plan Year shall be considered an Eligible Employee but only
with respect to the allocation under Appendix B, unless the employee has also been selected for
participation pursuant to the previous sentence. 

8.       Section 6(B) of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read in full as follows:

(B)      Content . An Eligible Employee s Deferral Election shall indicate the percentage of
Compensation to be deferred, the earnings option(s) that will determine earnings on the deferred
Compensation (see Section 7(A)), and the time and form of distribution (see Section 9). The
Eligible Employee shall specify for each Compensation category the percentage to be deferred per
pay period.

9.       Section 6 of the Plan is amended to add the following new subsections (D) and (E) to the end of
that section:

(D)      Charges Against Accounts . The Plan Administrator may allocate a portion of any
administrative expenses of the Plan to each Participant s Deferral Accounts and/or Transferred
Accounts, as applicable.

(E)      Cancellation of Deferral Election . Notwithstanding any other provision in the Plan to the
contrary, an Eligible Employee s Deferral Election for a Deferral Year will be cancelled for the
remainder of the Deferral Year following the date the Eligible Employee receives a hardship
distribution from any Code section 401(k) plan maintained by the Company or an Affiliate of the
Company in accordance with Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(viii). In the event that the end of
a six month period following the date that an Eligible Employee receives a hardship distribution
from any Code section 401(k) plan maintained by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company spans
two Deferral Years, the Eligible Employee s Deferral Election for the second Deferral Year shall
not become effective until after the end of the six month period.

10.     Effective December 1, 2009, Section 7(A) of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read in full
as follows:

(A)      Earnings Options . At the time of the Participant s Deferral Election, a Participant must
choose to allocate the amounts that will be credited to the Participant s Deferral Account among
the following earnings options in increments of one (1) percent:

2 

(1) 
       
     Common Stock Earnings Option 

(2) 
       
     CD Option 

(3) 
       
     Fund Options 

All deferred Stock Option Gain Compensation will automatically be allocated to the Common Stock
Earnings Option. All Company matching allocations credited pursuant to Appendix B shall be
automatically allocated to one or more Fund Options (other than the Common Stock Earnings Option)
as selected by the Plan Administrator from time to time until the Participant makes a subsequent
investment elections applicable to those allocations. The amounts allocated to the Common Stock
Earnings Option may not be subsequently reallocated to another earnings options unless otherwise
determined by the Plan Administrator and communicated to the Participants. Effective January 1,
2010, except with respect to amounts allocated to the Common Stock Earnings Option, which may not
subsequently be reallocated to another earnings option unless otherwise determined by the Plan
Administrator and communicated to Participants, a Participant may change the earnings options as of
each business day or less frequently if and as determined by the Plan Administrator.

11.     Section 9(A) of the Plan is amended in its entirety to read in full as follows:

(A)  Lump Sum or Installment Distributions . The Participant must elect to receive the balance
of each Deferral Account in either a lump sum or in annual installments over a period of years up
to ten (10), except that the total amount accumulated pursuant to Appendix B shall automatically be
paid in a lump sum.

12.     The first paragraph of Section 9(B) of the Plan is amended to read in full as follows:

(B)  Timing of Distribution . Except with respect to the total amount accumulated pursuant to
Appendix B, the Participant must designate on his or her Deferral Election the year that
distribution from the resulting Deferral Account shall commence. Distribution will commence on or
as soon as practicable after March 1 of the distribution commencement year, but not later than
December 31 of that year. If the Participant elected to receive installments, distribution of each
subsequent annual installment shall occur on or as soon as practicable after the March 1 of the
installment year, but not later than December 31 of that year. If distribution does not commence
earlier pursuant to the preceding provisions of this Section 9(B) or due to Sections 9(C) or (D)
below, distribution shall commence on or as soon as practicable after the March 1 immediately
following the Participant s Separation from Service if the Participant is not a Key Employee but
not later than December 31 of that year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, distribution to any
Participant subject to the requirements of Section 23 shall not commence earlier than provided for
in Section 23.

13.     The first sentence of Section 9(C) of the Plan is amended to read in full as follows:

3 

A Participant who has not had a Separation from Service may elect to delay the distribution
of any one or more of such Participant s Deferral Accounts except any amounts accumulated under
Appendix B, subject to the provisions of Section 9(B) above regarding payment following Separation
from Service, by electing a new distribution commencement year that is at least five (5) years
beyond the originally elected distribution commencement year. 

14.     The first sentence of Section 9(D) of the Plan is amended to read in full as follows:

If a Participant dies before receiving all payments under the Plan, payment of the balance of
the Participant s Deferral Accounts, excluding the amounts accumulated under Appendix B, shall be
made to the Participant s designated beneficiary in the forms of distribution elected by the
Participant on the Participant s Deferral Elections. Payment of the amounts accumulated under
Appendix B amounts shall be paid in a lump sum to the Participant s designated beneficiary. 

15.     The Plan is amended to add a new Section 23 to read in full as follows:

23.     TARP Compliance.  To the extent required by the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of
2008, as amended from time to time, and implementing regulations ( EESA ), if the Plan
Administrator determines that the Participant is a  Senior Executive Officer  (SEO) or a  Most
Highly Compensated  employee (MHCE) of the Company (both terms as defined under EESA), no lump sum
or installment payment in respect of any bonus or incentive previously deferred under the Plan and
any earnings credits associated with such amounts and that would otherwise be distributable in
accordance with the terms of the Plan and the Participant s applicable Deferral Election will be
paid to such SEO or MHCE until the earlier of (1) the end of the period during which any obligation
arising from financial assistance provided to the Company under the Troubled Asset Relief Program
( TARP ) remains outstanding (the  TARP Restriction Period ), or (2) the date after which the
Participant ceases to be a SEO or MHCE. If delayed payment is required by EESA as provided above,
such delayed distribution payment shall be paid to the Participant promptly following the first
date upon which payment could be made under EESA.

16.     The Plan is amended effective January 1, 2010 by adding an Appendix B to read as set forth in
the attached Exhibit A.

4 

Exhibit A

APPENDIX B 

Supplemental Company Matching Contribution Allocations  

Effective for Plan Years beginning on or after January 1, 2010, the Wells Fargo   Company Deferred
Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) is amended to provide credits for supplemental Company matching
contributions pursuant to the rules in this Appendix B.

Sec. 1    Eligibility.  Employees who have satisfied one year of service as defined under the Wells
Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan (the  401(k) Plan ) and are eligible to receive Company matching
contributions under the 401(k) Plan and who have entered into an agreement to defer Compensation
under this Plan ( deferred compensation ) which would otherwise have been recognized as  Certified
Compensation  under the 401(k) Plan for a Plan Year shall be eligible to receive the supplemental
Company matching contribution credits (the  Credits ) as provided under this Appendix B for that
Plan Year. Credits under this Appendix shall be reflected in the Participant s Deferral Account
attributable to the allocations under this Appendix B as soon as administratively feasible after
the end of the Plan Year in which a Company matching contribution would have been allocated to the
Participant s 401(k) Plan account if deferred compensation had been recognized as Certified
Compensation in the 401(k) Plan for the Plan Year.

Sec. 2    Credits.  For each Plan Year, the Deferral Account attributable to the allocations under
this Appendix B for each eligible Participant shall receive a Credit equal to the sum of the
amounts determined for each quarter of the Plan Year as follows:

(a)     To be eligible to receive a credit with respect to a particular calendar quarter, the
Participant must have been eligible to receive Employer Matching Contributions under and as defined
in the 401(k) Plan for that quarter.

(b)     The amount of the Participant s Credit under this Appendix B for a calendar quarter will
be equal to the Participant s  applicable percent  for the Plan Year as defined below, multiplied
by the deferred compensation deducted from the Participant s Compensation during that calendar
quarter; provided, however, that such Credit shall be made only to the extent that such deferred
compensation for the calendar quarter and any previous calendar quarters in the Plan Year plus the
Participant s Certified Compensation for such Plan Year does not exceed the Code Section 401(a)(17)
compensation limit in effect for such Plan Year.

(c)     For purposes of this Sec. 2, a Participant s  applicable percent  for a Plan Year is equal
to the smaller of (i) six percent, or (ii) the percent by which the Participant has elected to have
his or her Certified Compensation reduced for the purpose of making salary deferral contributions
under the 401(k) Plan in the election that is in effect on January 1 of that Plan Year. The
percent determined under the preceding sentence shall apply to the Participant for the entire

5 

Plan Year without regard to any changes the Participant may subsequently make in his or her
deferral election for purposes of contributions to the 401(k) Plan.

Sec. 3    Investment Election . The amount of the Credit pursuant to this Appendix shall be
automatically allocated to one or more Fund Options (other than the Common Stock Earnings Option)
as selected by the Plan Administrator from time to time as of the date the amount is actually
allocated to the Participant s Deferral Account. The Participant then can make a subsequent
investment election pursuant to Section 7 of the Plan.

Sec. 4    Distribution Upon Separation from Service . Distribution of the amounts accumulated
pursuant to this Appendix B (Credits and associated earnings credits) shall be automatically paid
in a lump sum as soon as practicable after the March 1 immediately following the Participant s
Separation from Service if the Participant is not a Key Employee, but not later than December 31 of
that year. If the Participant is a Key Employee, distribution shall commence as provided in
Section 9(B) of the Plan.

6 

</EX-10.F>

<EX-10.W>
 5
 f54129exv10ww.htm
 EX-10.W

exv10ww 

Exhibit 10(w) 

Amendment to Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors  

Effective January 1, 2009, Section 8.11 of the WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. Nonqualified
Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors (as Amended and Restated Effective as of
January 1, 2008) was amended in its entirety to read in full as follows:

Section 8.11  Distribution of Small Aggregate Balances Due to Separation from Service,
Death or Plan Termination . Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, if the
aggregate value of the Participant s Accounts on the first date as of which benefit
payments commence due to Separation from Service, Death or Plan Termination is not greater
than the applicable dollar amount under Code  402(g)(1)(B), the Participant s benefit shall
be paid in an immediate single lump sum. Payment shall not be permitted pursuant to this
Section 8.11 unless the payment results in the termination and liquidation of the
Participant s entire interest under the Plan and all other arrangements that, together with
the Plan, are treated as a single plan within the meaning of Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(c)(2),
taking into account only such interests as are subject to Code  409A.

</EX-10.W>

<EX-10.AA>
 6
 f54129exv10waa.htm
 EX-10.AA

exv10waa 

Exhibit 10(aa) 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Wachovia Corporation  

Effective as of June 1, 2009, the Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of
Wachovia Corporation was amended to add a new Section 4(e) to read as follows:

4(e). Notwithstanding any language in Sections 4 and 5 to the contrary, those Directors who
were in service as a Director of Wachovia Corporation as of December 31, 2008 but who were
not elected to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of Wells Fargo   Company
effective January 1, 2009 (collectively the  Non-Continuing Directors ) may make a one-time
irrevocable election to have all or any part of the balance credited to such Non-Continuing
Director s Interest Account or Stock Account, as applicable, transferred to a Stock Account
or Interest Account, as applicable. Such election shall not alter in any way the deferral
election made by the Non- Continuing Director under Section 3(a), the distribution election
made by such Non- Continuing Director under Section 5(a) or the deemed distribution election
described in Section 5(b) in the event that the Non- Continuing Director failed to make a
distribution election pursuant to Section 5(a). Such election shall be made in the time and
manner prescribed by the Executive Compensation division of Human Resources and shall be
effective June 1, 2009.

</EX-10.AA>

<EX-12.A>
 7
 f54129exv12wa.htm
 EX-12.A

exv12wa 

EXHIBIT
12(a) WELLS FARGO   COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 

(1) 
       
     As defined in Item 503(d) of Regulation S-K. 

(2) 
       
     These computations are included herein in compliance with Securities and Exchange
Commission regulations. However, management believes that fixed charge ratios are not meaningful
measures for the business of the Company because of two factors. First, even if there was no
change in net income, the ratios would decline with an increase in the proportion of income which
is tax-exempt or, conversely, they would increase with a decrease in the proportion of income
which is tax-exempt. Second, even if there was no change in net income, the ratios would decline
if interest income and interest expense increase by the same amount due to an increase in the
level of interest rates or, conversely, they would increase if interest income and interest
expense decrease by the same amount due to a decrease in the level of interest rates. 

</EX-12.A>

<EX-12.B>
 8
 f54129exv12wb.htm
 EX-12.B

exv12wb 

EXHIBIT
12(b) WELLS FARGO   COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
AND PREFERRED DIVIDENDS 

(1) 
       
     As defined in Item 503(d) of Regulation S-K. 

(2) 
       
     The preferred dividends, including accretion, were increased to amounts representing the
pretax earnings that would be required to cover such dividend and accretion requirements. 

(3) 
       
     These computations are included herein in compliance with Securities and Exchange
Commission regulations. However, management believes that fixed charge ratios are not meaningful
measures for the business of the Company because of two factors. First, even if there was no
change in net income, the ratios would decline with an increase in the proportion of income which
is tax-exempt or, conversely, they would increase with a decrease in the proportion of income
which is tax-exempt. Second, even if there was no change in net income, the ratios would decline
if interest income and interest expense increase by the same amount due to an increase in the
level of interest rates or, conversely, they would increase if interest income and interest
expense decrease by the same amount due to a decrease in the level of interest rates. 

</EX-12.B>

<EX-13>
 9
 f54129exv13.htm
 EX-13

exv13 

Financial
Review    

34 
       
      Overview  

37 
       
      Earnings Performance  

47 
       
      Balance Sheet Analysis  

50 
       
      Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

54 
       
      Risk Management  

71 
       
      Capital Management  

73 
       
      Critical Accounting Policies  

79 
       
      Current Accounting  

Developments  

80 
       
      Forward-Looking Statements  

81 
       
      Risk Factors  

Controls and Procedures    

88 
       
      Disclosure Controls and  

Procedures  

88 
       
      Internal Control over Financial  

Reporting  

88 
       
      Management s Report on Internal  

Control over Financial Reporting  

89 
       
      Report of Independent Registered  

Public Accounting Firm  

Financial Statements    

90 
       
      Consolidated Statement of Income  

91 
       
      Consolidated Balance Sheet  

92 
       
      Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity and 
Comprehensive Income  

96 
       
      Consolidated Statement of  

Cash Flows  

Notes to Financial Statements    

186  
       
        Report of Independent Registered    

Public Accounting Firm    

187  
       
        Quarterly Financial Data    

188  
       
        Glossary of Acronyms    

189  
       
        Codification Cross Reference    

33 

Table of Contents   

This Annual Report, including the Financial Review and the Financial Statements and related
Notes, has forward-looking statements, which may include forecasts of our financial results and
condition, expectations for our operations and business, and our assumptions for those forecasts
and expectations. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ
materially from our forward-looking statements due to several factors. Some of these factors are
described in the Financial Review and in the Financial Statements and related Notes. For a
discussion of other factors, refer to the  Risk Factors  section in this Report. A Glossary of
Acronyms for terms used throughout this Report and a Codification Cross Reference for cross
references from accounting standards under the recently adopted Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (Codification) to pre-Codification accounting
standards can be found at the end of this Report. 

Financial Review 

Overview 

Wells Fargo   Company is a $1.2 trillion diversified financial services company providing
banking, insurance, trust and investments, mortgage banking, investment banking, retail banking,
brokerage and consumer finance through banking stores, the internet and other distribution channels
to individuals, businesses and institutions in all 50 states, the District of Columbia (D.C.) and
in other countries. We ranked fourth in assets and second in the market value of our common stock
among our peers at December 31, 2009. When we refer to  Wells Fargo,   the Company,   we,   our  or
 us  in this Report, we mean Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries (consolidated). When we refer
to the  Parent,  we mean Wells Fargo   Company. When we refer to  legacy Wells Fargo,  we mean
Wells Fargo excluding Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia).

Our vision is to satisfy all our customers  financial needs, help them succeed financially, be
recognized as the premier financial services company in our markets and be one of America s great
companies. Our primary strategy to achieve this vision is to increase the number of products our
customers buy from us and to give them all of the financial products that fulfill their needs. Our
cross-sell strategy, diversified business model and the breadth of our geographic reach facilitate
growth in both strong and weak economic cycles, as we can grow by expanding the number of products
our current customers have with us, gain new customers in our extended markets, and increase market
share in many businesses. We continued to earn more of our customers  business in 2009 in both our
retail and commercial banking businesses and in our equally customer-centric securities brokerage
and investment banking businesses.

On December 31, 2008, Wells Fargo acquired Wachovia. Because the acquisition was completed at the
end of 2008, Wachovia s results are included in the income statement, average balances and related
financial information beginning in 2009. Wachovia s assets and liabilities are included, at fair
value, in the consolidated balance sheet beginning on December 31, 2008, but not in 2008 averages.

On January 1, 2009, we adopted new FASB guidance on noncontrolling interests on a retrospective
basis for disclosure and, accordingly, prior period information reflects the adoption. The guidance
requires that noncontrolling interests be reported as a component of total equity. In addition, our
consolidated income statement must disclose amounts attributable to both Wells Fargo interests and
the noncontrolling interests.

We generated record revenue and built capital at a record rate in 2009 despite elevated credit
costs. Wells Fargo net income was a record $12.3 billion in 2009, with net income applicable to
common stock of $8.0 billion. Diluted earnings per common share were $1.75. In fourth quarter 2009,
we fully repaid the U.S. Treasury s $25 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) Capital
Purchase Program (CPP) preferred stock investment, including related preferred dividends, which
reduced 2009 diluted earnings per share by $0.76 per share. Pre-tax pre-provision profit (PTPP) was
$39.7 billion in 2009, which covered more than 2.1 times annual net charge-offs. PTPP is total
revenue less noninterest expense. Management believes that PTPP is a useful financial measure
because it enables investors and others to assess the Company s ability to generate capital to
cover credit losses through a credit cycle.

Our cross-sell at legacy Wells Fargo set records for the 11th consecutive year with a record of
5.95 Wells Fargo products for retail banking households. Our goal is eight products per customer,
which is approximately half of our estimate of potential demand. One of every four of our legacy
Wells Fargo retail
banking households has eight or more products and our average middle-market commercial banking
customer has almost eight products. Wachovia retail bank households had an average of 4.65 Wachovia
products. We believe there is potentially significant opportunity for growth as we increase the
Wachovia retail bank household cross-sell. For legacy Wells Fargo, our average middle-market
commercial banking customer reached an average of 7.8 products and an average of 6.4 products for
Wholesale Banking customers. Business banking cross-sell offers another potential opportunity for
growth, with a record cross-sell of 3.77 products at legacy Wells Fargo.

Wells Fargo remained one of the largest providers of credit to the U.S. economy. We continued to
lend to credit-worthy customers and, during 2009, made $711 billion in new loan commitments to
consumer, small business and commercial customers, including $420 billion of residential mortgage
originations. We are an industry leader in loan modifications for homeowners. As of December 31,
2009, nearly half a million Wells Fargo mortgage customers were in active trial or had completed
loan modifications started in the prior 12 months. We have helped reduce mortgage payments for 1.7
million homeowners through refinancing.

34 

Table of Contents   

Our core deposits grew 5% from December 31, 2008, even though $109 billion in higher-priced
Wachovia certificates of deposit (CDs) matured. Average core deposits funded 93% of total average
loans in 2009, up from 82% in 2008. Checking and savings deposits grew 21% to $679.9 billion at
December 31, 2009, from $563.4 billion a year ago as we continued to gain new customers and deepen
our relationships with existing customers.

As we have stated in the past, to consistently grow over the long term, successful companies must
invest in their core businesses and maintain strong balance sheets. In 2009, we opened 70 retail
banking stores for a retail network total of 6,629 stores. We converted 19 Wachovia Banking stores
in Colorado to the Wells Fargo platform, as part of the Wachovia integration, with the conversion
of our remaining overlapping markets scheduled to occur in 2010.

The Wachovia integration remains on track and on schedule, with business and revenue synergies
exceeding our expectations at the time the merger was announced. Cross-sell revenues are being
realized. We are on track to realize annual run-rate savings of $5 billion upon completion of the
Wachovia integration in 2011, with over 50% of this annual run rate already achieved in 2009. We
currently expect cumulative merger integration costs of approximately $5 billion, down from our
$7.9 billion estimate at the time of merger. The revised estimate reflects lower owned real estate
write-downs and lower employee-related expenses than anticipated at the time of the merger. In
2009, we spent a total of $1.9 billion in

merger expenses, $1.0 billion through goodwill under purchase accounting and $895 million expensed
through earnings.

We continued taking actions to further strengthen our balance sheet, including building credit
reserves by $3.5 billion during the year to $25.0 billion at December 31, 2009, reducing previously
identified non-strategic and liquidating loan portfolios by $18.9 billion to $104.9 billion, and
reducing the value of our debt and equity investment portfolios through $1.7 billion of
other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) write-downs. We significantly built capital in 2009 and in
the last 15 months since announcing our merger with Wachovia, driven by record retained earnings
and other sources of internal capital generation, as well as three common stock offerings totaling
over $33 billion, including the $12.2 billion offering in fourth quarter 2009, which allowed us to
repay in full the U.S. Treasury s TARP preferred stock investment. We substantially increased the
size of the Company with the Wachovia merger, and experienced cyclically elevated credit costs;
however, our capital ratios at December 31, 2009, were higher than they were prior to the Wachovia
acquisition, even after redeeming the TARP preferred stock in full and purchasing Prudential
Financial Inc. s noncontrolling interest in our retail securities brokerage joint venture. Tier 1
common equity increased to $65.5 billion, 6.46% of risk-weighted assets. The Tier 1 capital ratio
increased to 9.25% and Tier 1 leverage ratio declined to 7.87%. See the  Capital Management 
section in this Report for more information regarding Tier 1 common equity.

Table 1:  Six-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data

(1) 
       
     Core deposits are noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing checking, savings
certificates, market rate and other savings, and certain foreign deposits (Eurodollar sweep
balances). 

35 

Table of Contents   

Table 2:  Ratios and Per Common Share Data

(1) 
       
     The efficiency ratio is noninterest expense divided by total revenue (net interest income
and noninterest income). 

(2) 
       
     See Note 25 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report
for additional information. 

(3) 
       
     Due to the Wachovia acquisition that closed on December 31, 2008, the Tier 1 leverage ratio,
which considers period-end Tier 1 capital and quarterly averages in the computation of the ratio,
does not reflect average assets of Wachovia for the full period ended December 31, 2008. 

(4) 
       
     See the  Capital Management  section in this Report for additional information. 

(5) 
       
     Dividends
declared per common share as a percentage of earnings per common share. 

(6) 
       
     Based on daily prices reported on the New York
Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting
System. 

We saw signs of stability emerging in our credit portfolio, as the rate of growth in credit
losses slowed during 2009. While losses remained elevated as expected, a more favorable economic
outlook and improved credit statistics in several portfolios further increase our confidence that
our credit cycle is turning, provided economic conditions do not deteriorate. In the commercial
portfolios, we saw some signs that credit quality may be improving, as the pace of commercial and
commercial real estate (CRE) nonaccrual growth slowed toward the end of 2009, reflecting our
historically strong underwriting and the purchase accounting adjustments taken on the Wachovia
portfolio at the time of the merger. We expect credit losses to remain elevated in the near term,
but, assuming no further economic deterioration, current projections show credit losses peaking in
the first half of 2010 in our consumer portfolios and later in 2010 in our commercial and CRE
portfolios. Based on the portfolio performance data we saw in fourth quarter 2009, and assuming the
same economic outlook, we are tracking somewhat better than these expectations.

We believe it is important to maintain a well controlled operating environment as we complete the
integration of the Wachovia businesses and grow the combined company. We manage our credit risk by
setting what we believe are sound credit policies for underwriting new business, while monitoring
and reviewing the performance of our loan portfolio. We manage the interest rate and market risks
inherent in our asset and liability balances within established ranges, while ensuring adequate
liquidity and funding. We maintain strong capital levels to facilitate future growth.

WACHOVIA MERGER   On December 31, 2008, Wells Fargo acquired Wachovia, one of the nation s
largest diversified financial services companies. Wachovia s assets and liabilities were included
in the December 31, 2008, consolidated balance sheet at their respective fair values on the
acquisition date. Because the acquisition was completed on December 31, 2008, Wachovia s results of
operations were not included in our 2008 income statement. Beginning in 2009, our consolidated
results and associated financial information, as well as our consolidated average balances, include
Wachovia. The Wachovia acquisition was material to us, and the inclusion of results from Wachovia s
businesses in our 2009 financial statements is a material factor in the changes in our results
compared with prior year periods.

Because the transaction closed on the last day of the 2008 annual reporting period, certain fair
value purchase accounting adjustments were based on preliminary data as of an interim period with
estimates through year end. We have validated and, where necessary, refined our December 31, 2008,
fair value estimates and other purchase accounting adjustments. The impact of these refinements was
recorded as an adjustment to goodwill in 2009. Based on the purchase price of $23.1 billion and the
$12.2 billion fair value of net assets acquired, inclusive of final refinements identified during
2009, the transaction resulted in goodwill of $10.9 billion. 

      The more significant fair value
adjustments in our purchase accounting for the Wachovia acquisition were to loans. As of December
31, 2008, certain of the loans acquired from Wachovia had evidence of credit deterioration since
origination, and it was probable that we would not collect all contractually required principal and
interest payments. Such loans identified at the time of the acquisition were accounted for using
the measurement provisions for purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loans, which are contained in the
Receivables topic (FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 310) of the Codification. PCI loans
were recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition, and any related allowance for loan losses
was not permitted to be carried over.

PCI loans were written down to an amount estimated to be collectible. Accordingly, such loans are
not classified as nonaccrual, even though they may be contractually past due, because we expect to
fully collect the new carrying values of such loans (that is, the new cost basis arising out of our
purchase accounting). PCI loans are also not included in the disclosure of loans 90 days or more
past due and still accruing interest even though a portion of them are 90 days or more
contractually past due.

36 

Table of Contents   

As a result of PCI loan accounting, certain credit-related ratios of the Company, including the
growth rate in nonperforming assets (NPAs) since December 31, 2008, may not be directly comparable
with periods prior to the merger or with credit-related ratios of other financial institutions. In
particular:

Wachovia s high risk loans were written down pursuant to PCI accounting at the time of merger.
Therefore, the allowance for credit losses is lower than otherwise would have been required without
PCI loan accounting; and 

Because we virtually eliminated Wachovia s nonaccrual loans at December 31, 2008, quarterly
growth in our nonaccrual loans during 2009 was higher than it would have been without PCI loan
accounting. Similarly, our net charge-offs rate was lower than it otherwise would have been. 

For
further detail on the merger see the  Balance Sheet Analysis   Loan Portfolio  section and Note
2 (Business Combinations) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Earnings Performance 

The earnings performance in 2009 was impacted by the acquisition of Wachovia on December 31,
2008, which significantly increased both asset size and the earnings potential of the Company. Net
income for 2009 was $12.3 billion ($1.75 diluted per share) with $8.0 billion applicable to common
stock, compared with net income of $2.7 billion ($0.70 diluted per share) with $2.4 billion
applicable to common stock for 2008. Our 2009 earnings were influenced by factors including:

a low mortgage rate environment combined with synergies from the addition of complementary
Wachovia business lines , which resulted in a more even split in revenue between net interest income
and noninterest income, primarily mortgage banking and trust and investment fees; 

the integration of Wachovia , which increased our expenses to align staffing models with those of
Wells Fargo in our service and product distribution channels, as well as to align or enhance our
various systems, business line support and other infrastructures; 

consumer and commercial borrower financial distress , which increased credit losses and foreclosed
asset preservation costs, as well as increased staffing expenses to manage loan modification
programs, loan collection, and various other loss mitigation activities; and 

significant distress in the financial services industry , which caused, among other items,
increased Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and other deposit assessments. 

Revenue, the sum of net interest income and noninterest income, grew to $88.7 billion in 2009 from
$41.9 billion in 2008, primarily due to the acquisition of Wachovia. In 2009, net interest income
of $46.3 billion represented 52% of revenue, compared with $25.1 billion (60%) in 2008. Noninterest
income of $42.4 billion in 2009 represented 48% of revenue, up from $16.7 billion (40%) in 2008.
The increase in noninterest income as a percentage of revenue was due to a higher percentage of
trust and investment fees (11% in 2009, up from 7% in 2008) with the addition of Wells Fargo
Advisors (formerly Wachovia Securities) retail brokerage business, legacy Wachovia wealth
management and retirement, and reinsurance businesses, and to very strong mortgage banking results
(14% in 2009, up from 6% in 2008, predominantly from legacy Wells Fargo).

Noninterest expense as a percentage of revenue was 55% in 2009 and 54% in 2008, with amortization
of core deposits (3% of revenue in 2009 and less than 1% in 2008) and additional

FDIC and other deposit assessments (2% of revenue in 2009 and less than 1% in 2008) in 2009 driving
the slightly weaker ratio. Noninterest expense for 2009 also included $895 million of Wachovia
merger-related integration expense.

Table 3 presents the components of revenue and noninterest expense as a percentage of revenue for
year-over-year results, comparing the combined Wells Fargo and Wachovia results for 2009 with
legacy Wells Fargo results for 2008.

Net Interest Income 

Net interest income is the interest earned on debt securities, loans (including yield-related
loan fees) and other interest-earning assets minus the interest paid for deposits, short-term
borrowings and long-term debt. The net interest margin is the average yield on earning assets minus
the average interest rate paid for deposits and our other sources of funding. Net interest income
and the net interest margin are presented on a taxable-equivalent basis in Table 5 to consistently
reflect income from taxable and tax-exempt loans and securities based on a 35% federal statutory
tax rate.

Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis increased to $47.0 billion in 2009, from $25.4
billion in 2008, and the net interest margin was 4.28% in 2009, down 55 basis points from 4.83% in
2008. These changes are primarily due to the impact of acquiring Wachovia. Although the addition of
Wachovia increased earning assets and net interest income, it decreased the net interest margin
since Wachovia s net interest margin was much lower than that of legacy Wells Fargo.

Table 4 presents the components of earning assets and funding sources as a percentage of earning
assets to provide a more meaningful analysis of year-over-year average balances, comparing the
combined Wells Fargo and Wachovia balances for 2009 with legacy Wells Fargo balances for 2008.

The mix of earning assets and their yields are important drivers of net interest income. During
2009, there were slight shifts in our earning asset mix from loans to more liquid assets. Due to
weaker loan demand in 2009 and the impact of liquidating certain loan portfolios, average loans for
2009 decreased to 75% of average earning assets from 76% for 2008, average mortgage-backed
securities (MBS) dropped to 12% in 2009, from 13% in 2008, and average short-term investments and
trading account assets increased to 2% in 2009 from 1% a year ago.

37 

Table of Contents   

Average interest-bearing core deposits increased to 58% of average earning assets for 2009, from
51% for 2008, and average short-term borrowings decreased to 5% of average earning assets, from 13%
for 2008. Core deposits are a low-cost source of funding and thus an important contributor to
growth in net interest income and the net interest margin. Core deposits include
noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing checking, savings certificates, market rate and
other savings, and certain foreign deposits (Eurodollar sweep balances). Average core deposits rose
to $762.5 billion in 2009 from $325.2 billion in 2008 and funded 93% and 82% of average loans,
respectively. About 87% of our core deposits are now in checking and savings deposits, one of the
highest percentages

in the industry. Total average retail core deposits, which exclude Wholesale Banking core deposits
and retail mortgage escrow deposits, grew to $588.1 billion for 2009 from $234.1 billion a year
ago. Average mortgage escrow deposits were $28.3 billion for 2009, compared with $21.0 billion a
year ago. Average savings certificates increased to $140.2 billion in 2009 from $39.5 billion a
year ago and average checking and savings deposits increased to $622.4 billion in 2009 from $285.7
billion a year ago. Total average interest-bearing deposits increased to $635.9 billion in 2009
from $266.1 billion a year ago.

Table 5 presents the individual components of net interest income
and the net interest margin.

Table
3:   Net Interest Income, Noninterest Income and Noninterest Expense as a Percentage of Revenue

(1) 
       
     See Table 8   Noninterest Expense in this Report for additional detail. 

38 

Table of Contents   

Table
4:   Average Earning Assets and Funding Sources as a Percentage of Average Earning Assets

(1) 
       
     Includes certain preferred securities. 

(2) 
       
     Nonaccrual loans are included in their respective loan categories. 

39 

Table of Contents   

Table 5:  Average Balances, Yields and Rates Paid (Taxable-Equivalent Basis)  (1)(2)(3) 

40 

Table of Contents   

(5) 
       
     Includes certain preferred securities. 

(6) 
       
     Nonaccrual loans and related income are included in their respective loan categories. 

(7) 
       
     Includes taxable-equivalent adjustments primarily related to tax-exempt income on certain loans
and securities. The federal statutory tax rate was 35% for the periods presented. 

(8) 
       
     See Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets) to Financial Statements in
this Report for detail of balances of other noninterest-earning assets at December 31, 2009 and
2008. 

41 

Table of Contents   

Table 6 allocates the changes in net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis to changes
in either average balances or average rates for both interest-earning assets and interest-bearing
liabilities. Because of the numerous simultaneous volume and rate changes during any period, it is
not possible

to precisely allocate such changes between volume and rate. For this table, changes that are not
solely due to either volume or rate are allocated to these categories in proportion to the
percentage changes in average volume and average rate.

Table 6:  Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income

Noninterest Income 

Noninterest income represented 48% of revenue for 2009 compared with 40% for 2008. The increase
from 2008 was primarily due to strong trust and investment fee income, aided primarily by the
Wachovia acquisition. Also, mortgage

banking income increased significantly during 2009 driven by the low rate environment, strong loan
origination volume and strong market-related valuation changes, net of economic hedge results.

42 

Table of Contents   

Table 7:  Noninterest Income

The Federal Reserve Board (FRB) announced regulatory changes to debit card and ATM overdraft
practices in fourth quarter 2009. In third quarter 2009, we had also announced policy changes that
will help customers limit overdraft and returned item fees. We currently estimate that the
combination of these changes will reduce our 2010 fee revenue by approximately $500 million (after
tax). The actual impact could vary due to a variety of factors including changes in customer
behavior. There is no assurance that the actual impact on our 2010 fee revenue from pending changes
to our overdraft practices will not materially vary from our estimate.

We earn trust, investment and IRA (Individual Retirement Account) fees from managing and
administering assets, including mutual funds, corporate trust, personal trust, employee benefit
trust and agency assets. At December 31, 2009, these assets totaled $1.9 trillion, up 19% from $1.6
trillion (including $510 billion from Wachovia) at December 31, 2008. Trust, investment and IRA
fees are primarily based on a tiered scale relative to the market value of the assets under
management or administration. The fees increased to $3.6 billion in 2009 from $2.2 billion a year
ago.

We receive commissions and other fees for providing services to full-service and discount brokerage
customers. These fees increased to $6.1 billion in 2009 from $763 million a year ago, primarily due
to Wachovia. These fees include transactional commissions, which are based on the number of
transactions executed at the customer s direction, and asset-based fees, which are based on the
market value of the customer s assets. Client assets totaled $1.1 trillion at December 31, 2009, up
from $970 billion (including $859 billion from Wachovia) a year ago. Commissions and other fees
also include fees from investment banking activities including equity and bond underwriting.

Card fees increased 58% to $3.7 billion in 2009 from $2.3 billion in 2008, predominantly due to
additional card fees from the Wachovia portfolio. Recent legislative and regulatory changes limit
our ability to increase interest rates and assess certain fees on card accounts. We currently
estimate that these changes will reduce our 2010 fee revenue by approximately $235 million (after
tax) before accounting for potential offsets in performance, the economy, revenue mitigation
impacts and other factors. The actual impact could vary due to a variety of factors, and there is
no assurance that the actual impact on our 2010 fee revenue from these changes will not materially
vary from our estimate.

Mortgage banking noninterest income was $12.0 billion in 2009, compared with $2.5 billion a year
ago. In addition to servicing fees, net servicing income includes both changes in the fair value of
mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) during the period as well as changes in the value of derivatives
(economic hedges) used to hedge the MSRs. Net servicing income for 2009 included a $5.3 billion net
MSRs valuation gain that was recorded to earnings ($1.5 billion decrease in the fair value of the
MSRs offset by a $6.8 billion hedge gain) and for 2008 included a $242 million net MSRs valuation
loss ($3.3 billion decrease in the fair value of MSRs offset by a $3.1 billion hedge gain). See the
 Risk Management   Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  section of this Report for a
detailed discussion of our MSRs risks and hedging approach. Our portfolio of loans serviced for
others was $1.88 trillion at December 31, 2009, and $1.86 trillion (including $379 billion acquired
from Wachovia) at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2009, the ratio of MSRs to related loans
serviced for others was 0.91%.

Net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities of $6.2 billion for 2009 were up from $1.2
billion a year ago, due to strong business performance during the year as the low interest-rate
environment produced higher levels of refinance activity. Residential real estate originations were
$420 billion in 2009, compared with $230 billion a year ago. The 1-4 family first mortgage unclosed
pipeline was $57 billion at December 31, 2009, and $71 billion at December 31, 2008. For additional
detail, see the  Risk Management   Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  section and
Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies), Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) and Note
16 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities include the cost of any additions to the
mortgage repurchase reserve as well as adjustments of loans in the warehouse/pipeline for changes
in market conditions that affect their value. Mortgage loans are repurchased based on standard
representations and warranties and early payment default clauses in mortgage sale contracts.
Additions to the mortgage repurchase reserve that were charged against net gains on mortgage loan
origination/sales activities during 2009 totaled $927 million ($399 million for 2008), of which
$302 million ($165 million for 2008) was related to our estimate of loss content associated with
loan sales during the year and $625 million ($234 million for 2008) was for subsequent increases in
estimated losses, primarily due to

43 

Table of Contents   

increased delinquencies and heightened investor repurchase demands on prior years loan sales within
the current environment. To the extent that economic conditions and the housing market do not
recover or future investor repurchase demand and appeals success rates differ from past experience,
we could continue to have increased demands and increased loss severity on repurchases, causing
future additions to the repurchase reserve. For additional information about mortgage loan
repurchases, see the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management Process   Reserve for Mortgage Loan
Repurchase Losses  section in this Report. Net write-downs for mortgage loans while they were in the warehouse/pipeline
totaled $164 million during 2009 and $584 million during 2008, due to the deterioration in the
overall credit market and related secondary market liquidity challenges. Similar losses on the
warehouse/pipeline could be possible in the future if housing market values do not recover.

Income from trading activities was $2.7 billion in 2009, up from $275 million a year ago. This
increase was driven by $1.8 billion in investment banking activities in our fixed income, financial
products, equities and municipal businesses in large part due to Wachovia s investment banking
business. The majority of the remaining 2009 trading gains were driven by various hedging
activities of interest rate and credit exposures using cash and derivative trading instruments.

Net losses on debt securities available for sale were $127 million in 2009, compared with net gains
of $1.0 billion a year ago. Net gains from equity investments were $185 million in 2009, compared
with net losses of $757 million in 2008, which included a $334 million gain from our ownership
interest in Visa, which completed its initial public offering in March 2008. Net gains and losses
on debt and equity securities totaled $58 million, after OTTI write-downs of $1.7 billion, in 2009
and $280 million, after OTTI write-downs of $2.0 billion, in 2008. The 2008 OTTI write-downs
included $646 million for securities of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Lehman Brothers.

Noninterest Expense 

The increase in noninterest expense to $49.0 billion in 2009 from a year ago was predominantly
due to the acquisition of Wachovia, increased staffing and other costs related to problem loan
modifications and workouts, special deposit assessments and operating losses. The acquisition of
Wachovia resulted in an expanded geographic platform and capabilities in businesses such as retail
brokerage, asset management and investment banking. As part of our integration investment to
enhance both the short- and long-term benefits to our customers, we added sales and service team
members to align Wachovia s banking stores and other distribution channels with Wells Fargo s
model. Commission and incentive compensation expense increased proportionately more than salaries
due to higher 2009 revenues generated by businesses with revenue-based compensation, including the
retail securities brokerage business acquired from Wachovia and our mortgage business.

Table 8:  Noninterest Expense

Noninterest expense included $895 million of Wachovia merger-related integration expense for
2009. Employee benefit expense in 2009 reflected actions related to freezing the Wells Fargo and
Wachovia Cash Balance pension plans, which lowered pension cost by approximately $500 million for
2009, and reflected $150 million of additional expense for a 401(k) profit sharing contribution to
all eligible team members. See Note 19 (Employee Benefits and Other Expenses) to Financial
Statements in this Report for additional information. Salaries and employee benefits also reflected
increased staffing levels to handle the higher volume of mortgage loan modifications, which
continued to increase throughout 2009, driven by both federal and our own proprietary loan
modification programs to help customers stay in their homes. FDIC and other deposit assessments,
which included additional assessments related to the FDIC Transaction Account Guarantee Program in
2009, were $1.8 billion in 2009, including a mid-year 2009 FDIC special assessment of $565 million.
See the  Risk Management   Liquidity and Funding  section in this Report for additional
information. Operating losses included a $261 million reserve for an auction rate securities (ARS)
settlement. See Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities) to Financial Statements in
this Report for more information.

Income Tax Expense 

Our effective income tax rate was 30.3% in 2009, up from 18.5% in 2008. The increase is
primarily attributable to higher pre-tax earnings and increased tax expense (with a comparable
increase in interest income) associated with purchase accounting for leveraged leases, partially
offset by higher levels of tax exempt income, tax credits and the impact of changes in our
liability for uncertain tax positions. We recognized a net tax benefit of approximately $150
million and $200 million during the fourth quarter and year-ended December 31, 2009, respectively,
primarily related to changes in our uncertain tax positions, due to federal and state income tax
settlements.

44 

Table of Contents   

Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance that changed the way noncontrolling
interests are presented in the income statement such that the consolidated income statement
includes amounts from both Wells Fargo interests and the noncontrolling interests. As a result, our
effective tax rate is calculated by dividing income tax expense by income before income tax expense
less the net income from noncontrolling interests.

Operating Segment Results 

We define our operating segments by product and customer. As a result of the combination of
Wells Fargo and Wachovia, in 2009 management realigned our business segments into three lines of
business: Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. Our
management accounting process measures the performance of the operating segments based on our
management structure and

is not necessarily comparable with similar information for other financial services companies. We
revised prior period information to reflect the 2009 realignment of our operating segments;
however, because the acquisition was completed on December 31, 2008, Wachovia s results are not
included in the income statement or in average balances for periods prior to 2009. The Wachovia
acquisition was material to us, and the inclusion of results from Wachovia s businesses in our 2009
financial statements is a material factor in the changes in our results compared with prior year
results. The significant matters affecting our financial results for 2009 have been discussed
previously. Table 9 and the following discussion present our results by operating segment. For a
more complete description of our operating segments, including additional financial information and
the underlying management accounting process, see Note 23 (Operating Segments) to Financial
Statements in this Report.

Table 9:  Operating Segment Results   Highlights

Community Banking  offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for
consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services in 39 states and
D.C., and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states and D.C. Wachovia added expanded product
capability as well as expanded channels to better serve our customers. Community Banking includes
Wells Fargo Financial.

Revenue growth for 2009 was driven primarily by significant growth in mortgage originations ($420
billion in 2009 compared with $230 billion in prior year) and strong mortgage servicing hedge
results (primarily due to hedge carry income arising from the low short-term interest rates) as
well as continued success in the cross-sell of Wells Fargo products. Double-digit growth in legacy
Wells Fargo core deposits and the ability to retain approximately 60% of Wachovia s matured
higher-cost CDs portfolio in lower-rate CDs and liquid deposits at lower than expected yields also
contributed to the growth, mitigated by lower loan interest rates. Noninterest expense increased
from 2008 due to the addition of Wachovia, increases in FDIC and other deposit assessments, and
credit related expenses, including the addition of resources to handle a higher volume of mortgage
loan modifications. To benefit our customers we continued to invest in adding sales and service
team members in regional banking as we aligned Wachovia banking stores with the Wells Fargo model.
The increases in noninterest expense were mitigated by continued revenue growth and expense
management as we stayed on track to meet our merger synergy goals.

Wholesale Banking  provides financial solutions to businesses across the United States with annual
sales generally in excess of $10 million and to financial institutions globally. Products include
middle market banking, corporate banking, CRE, treasury management, asset-based lending, insurance
brokerage, foreign exchange, correspondent banking, trade services, specialized lending, equipment
finance, corporate trust, investment banking, capital markets, and asset management. Wachovia added
expanded product capabilities across the segment, including investment banking, mergers and
acquisitions, equity trading, equity structured products, fixed-income sales and trading, and
equity and fixed-income research.

Wholesale Banking earned net income of $3.9 billion and revenue of $20.3 billion in 2009. Results
were driven by the performance of our many diverse businesses, such as commercial banking,
corporate banking, asset-based lending, asset management, investment banking and international.
With over 750 offices nationwide and globally, plus expanded product and distribution capabilities,
Wholesale Banking saw gains in 2009 in the number of new middle market companies we lent money to
and in the positive experiences those companies had with our bank. Revenue performance also
benefited from the recovery of the capital markets. We saw the effect of customers deleveraging,
accessing capital markets and delaying investment decisions as loan balances declined throughout
the year; however, we continued to originate loans at improved spreads and terms. The provision for
loan losses was $3.6 billion, including $1.2 billion of additional provision to build reserves for
the wholesale portfolio.

45 

Table of Contents   

Key merger achievements included the conversion of Wachovia offices to the commercial banking
model, revenue synergies through our government banking and global financial institutions and trade
services businesses and enhancement of our investment banking business across the franchise by
combining the best of the two companies  advisory, financing and securities distribution
capabilities.

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement  provides a full range of financial advisory services to clients.
Wealth Management provides affluent and high-net-worth clients with a complete range of wealth
management solutions including financial planning, private banking, credit, investment management,
trust and estate services, business succession planning and charitable services along with
bank-based brokerage services through Wells Fargo Advisors and Wells Fargo Investments, LLC. Family
Wealth provides family-office services to ultra-high-net-worth clients and is one of the largest
multi-family financial office practices in the United States. Retail Brokerage s financial advisors
serve customers  advisory, brokerage and financial needs as part of one of the largest full-service
brokerage firms in the United States. Retirement provides retirement services for individual
investors and is a national leader in 401(k) and pension record keeping. The addition of Wachovia
in first quarter 2009 added the following businesses to this operating segment: Wells Fargo
Advisors (retail brokerage), wealth management, including its family wealth business, and
retirement and reinsurance business.

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement earned net income of $1.0 billion in 2009. Revenue of $11.5
billion included a mix of brokerage commissions, asset-based fees and net interest income. The
equity market recovery helped drive growth in fee income. Deposit balances grew 33% during the
year. Net interest income growth was dampened by the exceptionally low short-term interest rate
environment. Expenses increased from the prior year due to the addition of Wachovia and the loss
reserve for the ARS legal settlement. Expense growth was mitigated by the realization of merger
synergies during the year. The wealth, brokerage and retirement businesses have solidified
partnerships throughout Wells Fargo, working with Community Banking and Wholesale Banking to
provide financial solutions for clients.

Earnings
Performance   Comparison of 2008 with 2007 

Wells Fargo net income in 2008 was $2.7 billion ($0.70 per common share), compared with $8.1
billion ($2.38 per common share) in 2007. Results for 2008 included the impact of our $8.1 billion
(pre tax) credit reserve build, $2.0 billion (pre tax) of OTTI and $124 million (pre tax) of
merger-related expenses. Results for 2007 included the impact of our $1.4 billion (pre tax) credit
reserve build and $203 million (pre tax) of Visa litigation expenses. Despite the challenging
environment in 2008, we achieved both top line revenue growth and positive operating leverage
(revenue growth of 6%; expense decline of 1%).

Revenue, the sum of net interest income and noninterest income, grew 6% to $41.9 billion in 2008
from $39.5 billion in 2007. The breadth and depth of our business model resulted in very strong and
balanced growth in loans, deposits and fee-based products. We achieved positive operating leverage
(revenue growth of 6%; expense decline of 1%), the best among large bank peers. Wells Fargo net
income for 2008 of $2.7 billion included an $8.1 billion (pre tax) credit reserve build, $2.0
billion (pre tax) of OTTI and $124 million (pre tax) of merger-related expenses. Diluted earnings
per share of $0.70 for 2008 included credit reserve build ($1.51 per share) and OTTI ($0.37 per
share). Industry-leading annual results included the highest growth in pre-tax pre-provision
earnings (up 15%), highest net interest margin (4.83%), return on average common stockholders 
equity (ROE), return on average total assets (ROA) and highest total shareholder return among large
bank peers (up 2%).

Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis was $25.4 billion in 2008, up from $21.1 billion
in 2007, reflecting strong loan growth, disciplined deposit pricing and lower market funding costs.
Average earning assets grew 17% from 2007. Our net interest margin was 4.83% for 2008, up from
4.74% in 2007, primarily due to the benefit of lower funding costs as market rates declined.

Noninterest income decreased 10% to $16.7 billion in 2008 from $18.5 billion in 2007. Card fees
were up 9% from 2007, due to continued growth in new accounts and higher credit and debit card
transaction volume. Insurance revenue was up 20%, due to customer growth, higher crop insurance
revenue and the fourth quarter 2007 acquisition of ABD Insurance. However, trust and investment
fees decreased 7% and other fees decreased 9%, due to depressed market conditions. Operating lease
income decreased 39% from 2007, due to continued softening in the auto market, reflecting tightened
credit standards. Noninterest income included $280 million in net gains on debt and equity
securities, including $2.0 billion of OTTI write-downs.

Noninterest expense was $22.6 billion in 2008, down 1% from $22.7 billion in 2007. We continued to
invest in new stores and additional sales and service-related team members. Operating lease expense
decreased 31% to $389 million in 2008 from $561 million in 2007, as we stopped originating new
indirect auto leases in third quarter 2008. Insurance expense increased to $725 million in 2008
from $416 million in 2007 due to the fourth quarter 2007 acquisition of ABD Insurance, additional
insurance reserves at our captive mortgage reinsurance operation as well as higher commissions on
increased sales volume.

46 

Table of Contents   

Balance Sheet Analysis 

During 2009, we continued to grow core deposits even though loan demand remained soft. Deposits
increased $42.6 billion in 2009 from a year ago, with $35.3 billion of the increase in core
deposits. Growth in deposits was due to the increase in the U.S. money supply, a preference on the
part of consumers and businesses to maintain liquidity, and the Company s successful efforts to
attract and retain deposits from new and existing customers. Loans decreased $82.1 billion from a
year ago, before considering the impact of the $3.5 billion increase in the allowance for loan
losses. Commercial loan demand was soft during 2009 as businesses reduced investing in inventory,
plant and equipment. Likewise, retail customer borrowing declined as consumers limited their
spending. Excess deposits were therefore invested in liquid assets, particularly in the latter half
of 2009. Our rate mix of core deposits improved with noninterest-bearing, interest-bearing
checking, and market rate and other lower cost savings deposits increasing to 83% of total core
deposits at December 31, 2009, from 71% a year ago.

See the following sections for more discussion
and details about the major components of our balance
sheet. Capital is discussed in the  Capital
Management  section of this Report.

Securities Available for Sale 

Securities available for sale consist of both debt and marketable equity securities. We hold
debt securities available for sale primarily for liquidity, interest rate risk management and
long-term yield enhancement. Accordingly, this portfolio consists primarily of very liquid,
high-quality federal agency debt and privately issued MBS. We held $167.1 billion of debt
securities available for sale, with net unrealized gains of $4.8 billion, at December 31, 2009,
compared with $145.4 billion, with net unrealized losses of $9.8 billion a year ago. We also held
$5.6 billion of marketable equity securities available for sale, with net unrealized gains of $843
million, at December 31, 2009, compared with $6.1 billion, with net unrealized losses of $160
million a year ago. The total net unrealized gains on securities available for sale were $5.6
billion at December 31, 2009, up from net unrealized losses of $9.9 billion at December 31, 2008,
due to general decline in long-term yields and narrowing of credit spreads. With the application of
purchase accounting at December 31, 2008, for the Wachovia portfolio, the net unrealized losses in
cumulative other comprehensive income (OCI), a component of common equity, related entirely to the
legacy Wells Fargo portfolio at that date.

We analyze securities for OTTI on a quarterly basis, or more often if a potential loss-triggering
event occurs. Of the $1.7 billion OTTI write-downs in 2009, $1.0 billion related to debt securities
and $655 million to equity securities. For a discussion of our OTTI accounting policies and
underlying considerations and analysis see Note 1 (Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies   Accounting Standards Adopted in 2009   FASB ASC 320-10 and   Securities) and Note 5 (Securities
Available for Sale) to Financial Statements in this Report.

At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $8 billion of investments in securities, primarily
municipal bonds, which are guaranteed against loss by bond insurers. These securities are almost
exclusively investment grade and were generally underwritten in accordance with our own investment
standards prior to the determination to purchase, without relying on the bond insurer s guarantee
in making the investment decision. These securities will continue to be monitored as part of our
on-going impairment analysis of our securities available for sale, but are expected to perform,
even if the rating agencies reduce the credit rating of the bond insurers.

The weighted-average expected maturity of debt securities available for sale was 5.6 years at
December 31, 2009. Since 73% of this portfolio is MBS, the expected remaining maturity may differ
from contractual maturity because borrowers generally have the right to prepay obligations before
the underlying mortgages mature. The estimated effect of a 200 basis point increase or decrease in
interest rates on the fair value and the expected remaining maturity of the MBS available for sale
are shown in Table 10.

Table 10:  Mortgage-Backed Securities

See Note 5 (Securities Available for Sale) to Financial Statements in this Report for
securities available for sale by security type.

47 

Table of Contents   

Loan Portfolio 

Loans decreased during 2009 for nearly all loan types as loan demand softened in response to
economic conditions.

Table 11 provides detail by loan product, and by PCI and all other loans.

Table 11:  Loan Portfolios 

(1) 
     In 2009, we refined certain of our preliminary purchase accounting adjustments based on
additional information as of December 31, 2008. These
refinements resulted in increasing the PCI loans carrying value at
December 31, 2008, to $59.2 billion. The table above has not
been updated as of December 31, 2008, to reflect these
refinements. 

A discussion of average loan balances and a comparative detail of average loan balances is included
in Table 5 under  Earnings Performance   Net Interest Income  earlier in this Report; year-end
balances and other loan related information are in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses)
to Financial Statements in this Report.

During 2009, we further refined our preliminary purchase accounting adjustments related to loans
from the Wachovia acquisition. These refinements, which increased the December 31, 2008, balance of
PCI loans to $59.2 billion, were based on additional information as of December 31, 2008, that
became available after the merger date, as permitted under purchase accounting.

The most significant refinements for the PCI loans were as follows:

Net increase to the unpaid principal balance of $2.3 billion based on additional loans considered
in the scope of PCI loans, consisting of a $1.9 billion decrease in commercial, CRE, and foreign
loans and a $4.2 billion increase in consumer loans ($2.7 billion of which related to Pick-a-Pay
loans). 

Net increase to the nonaccretable difference of $3.7 billion, due to the addition of more loans
and further refinement of the loss estimates. The net increase was created by a $299 million
increase in commercial, CRE, and foreign loans and a $3.4 billion increase in consumer loans ($2.2
billion of which related to Pick-a-Pay loans). 

Net increase to the accretable yield of a $1.8 billion interest rate mark premium, primarily for
consumer loans. 

The nonaccretable difference was established in purchase accounting for PCI loans to absorb losses
expected at that time on those loans. Amounts absorbed by the nonaccretable difference do not
affect the income statement or the allowance for credit losses. Table 12 provides an analysis of
2009 changes in the nonaccretable difference related to principal that is not expected to be
collected.

48 

Table of Contents   

Table 12:  Changes in Nonaccretable Difference for PCI Loans 

(1) 
     Release of the nonaccretable difference for payments in full increases interest income in
the period of payment. Pick-a-Pay and other consumer PCI loans do not reflect nonaccretable
difference releases due to accounting for those loans on a pooled basis. 

(2) 
     Release of the nonaccretable difference as a result of sales to third parties increases
noninterest income in the period of the sale. 

(3) 
     Reclassification of nonaccretable difference for probable and significant increased cash flow
estimates to the accretable yield will result in increasing income and thus the rate of return over
the remaining life of the PCI loan or pool of loans. 

(4) 
     Write-downs to net realizable value of PCI loans are charged to the nonaccretable difference
when severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or other indications of severe borrower financial
stress exist that indicate there will be a loss upon final resolution of the loan. 

For
further detail on PCI loans, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   Loans)
and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Table 13 shows contractual loan maturities for selected loan categories and sensitivities of those
loans to changes in interest rates.

Table 13:  Maturities for Selected Loan Categories 

49 

Table of Contents   

Deposits 

Deposits totaled $824.0 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $781.4 billion at December 31,
2008. Table 14 provides additional detail. Comparative detail of average deposit balances is
provided in Table 5 under  Earnings Performance   Net Interest Income  earlier in this Report.

Total core deposits were $780.7 billion at December 31, 2009, up $35.3 billion from $745.4 billion
at December 31, 2008. High-rate CDs of $109 billion at Wachovia matured in 2009 and were replaced
by $62 billion in checking, savings or lower-cost CDs. We continued to gain new deposit customers
and deepen our relationships with existing customers.

Table 14:   Deposits 

(1) 
     Reflects Eurodollar sweep balances included in core deposits. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

In the ordinary course of business, we engage in financial transactions that are not recorded in
the balance sheet, or may be recorded in the balance sheet in amounts that are different from the
full contract or notional amount of the transaction. These transactions are designed to (1) meet
the financial needs of customers, (2) manage our credit, market or liquidity risks, (3) diversify
our funding sources, and/or (4) optimize capital. These are described below as off-balance sheet
transactions with unconsolidated entities, and guarantees and certain contingent arrangements.
Beginning in 2010, the accounting rules for off-balance sheet transactions with unconsolidated
entities changed. We discuss the impact of those changes in this section and in the  Current
Accounting Developments  section in this Report.

Off-Balance Sheet Transactions with Unconsolidated Entities 

In the normal course of business, we enter into various types of on- and off-balance sheet
transactions with special purpose entities (SPEs), which are corporations, trusts or partnerships
that are established for a limited purpose. Historically, the majority of SPEs were formed in
connection with securitization transactions. For more information on securitizations, including
sales proceeds and cash flows from securitizations, see Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable
Interest Entities) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Table 15 presents our significant continuing involvement with qualifying special purpose entities
(QSPEs) and unconsolidated variable interest entities (VIEs) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.

Table 15 does not include SPEs and unconsolidated VIEs where our only involvement is in the form of
(1) investments in trading securities, (2) investments in securities available for sale or loans
issued by entities sponsored by third parties, (3) derivative counterparty for certain derivatives
such as interest rate swaps or cross currency swaps that have customary terms or (4) administrative
or trustee services. Also not included are investments accounted for in accordance with the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Investment Company Audit Guide,
investments accounted for under the cost method and investments accounted for under the equity
method.

In Table 15,  Total entity assets  represents the total assets of unconsolidated SPEs.  Carrying
value  is the amount in our consolidated balance sheet related to our involvement with the
unconsolidated SPEs.  Maximum exposure to loss  from our involvement with off-balance sheet
entities, which is a required disclosure under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), is
determined as the carrying value of our involvement with off-balance sheet (unconsolidated) VIEs
plus the remaining undrawn liquidity and lending commitments, the
notional amount of net written derivative contracts, and generally the notional amount of, or stressed loss estimate for, other
commitments and guarantees. It represents estimated loss that would be incurred under severe,
hypothetical circumstances, for which we believe the possibility is extremely remote, such as where
the value of our interests and any associated collateral declines to zero, without any
consideration of recovery or offset from any economic hedges. Accordingly, this required disclosure
is not an indication of expected loss.

50 

Table of Contents   

Table 15:  Qualifying Special Purpose Entities and Unconsolidated Variable Interest Entities 

(1) 
     Certain December 31, 2008, balances have been
revised to reflect additionally identified residential mortgage QSPEs
and collateralized debt obligation VIEs, as well as to reflect
removal of commercial mortgage asset transfers that were subsequently
determined not to be transfers to QSPEs. 

(2) 
     Conforming residential mortgage loan securitizations are those that are guaranteed by
government-sponsored entities (GSEs), including Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA). We
have concluded that conforming mortgages are not subject to
consolidation under Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009-16 (FAS
166) and ASU 2009-17 (FAS 167). See the  Current Accounting Developments  section in this Report
for our estimate of the nonconforming mortgages that may potentially
be consolidated under this guidance. The maximum exposure to loss as
of December 31, 2008, has been revised to conform with the year-end
2009 basis of determination. 

(3) 
     Asset-backed commercial paper. 

(4) 
     Includes only those money market mutual funds to which the Company had outstanding contractual
support agreements in place. The December 31, 2008, balance has been revised to exclude certain
funds because the support arrangements had lapsed or settled and we were not obligated to support
such funds. 

The
FASB issued new guidance for accounting for off-balance sheet transactions with QSPEs and VIEs
effective January 1, 2010, that replaces the current consolidation model for VIEs. For further
information and the impact of the application of this guidance, see the  Current Accounting
Developments  section in this Report.

Table 16 presents our involvement with QSPEs and unconsolidated VIEs as of December 31, 2009,
segregated between those entities we sponsored or to which we transferred assets and those
sponsored by third parties. Additionally, we have further segregated the QSPEs and unconsolidated
VIEs over which we have power in accordance with the consolidated accounting guidance in ASU
2009-17 (FAS 167) and those we do not.

We consider sponsorship to include transactions with QSPEs and unconsolidated VIEs where we solely
or materially participated in the initial design or structuring of the entity or the marketing of
the transaction to investors. If we sold assets, typically securities or loans, to a QSPE or
unconsolidated VIE we are considered the transferor. Third party transactions are those
transactions where we have ongoing involvement, but did not sponsor or transfer assets to a QSPE or
unconsolidated VIE.

We expect to consolidate the VIEs or former QSPEs where we have power, regardless of whether or not
we transferred assets to or sponsored the VIE or QSPE. Based upon the transfers accounting guidance
in ASU 2009-16 (FAS 166) and the consolidated accounting guidance in ASU 2009-17 (FAS 167)
regarding the nature and type of continuing involvement that could potentially be significant and
our related assessment of whether or not we have power, it may be necessary to make changes in our
future disclosures. See additional detail regarding the expected impact to the Company s balance
sheet in the  Current Accounting Developments  section of this Report.

51 

Table of Contents   

Table 16:  Qualifying Special Purpose Entities and Unconsolidated Variable Interest Entities Total
Entity Assets by Type of Involvement 

(1) 
       
     We have concluded that conforming mortgages are not subject to consolidation under ASU
2009-16 (FAS 166) and ASU 2009-17 (FAS 167). See the  Current Accounting Developments  section in
this Report for our estimate of the nonconforming mortgages that may potentially be consolidated
under this guidance. 

(2) 
       
     Includes investment funds that are subject to deferral from
application of ASU 2009-17 (FAS 167). 

Guarantees and Certain Contingent Arrangements 

Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us to make payments to a guaranteed party based
on an event or a change in an underlying asset, liability, rate or index. Guarantees are generally
in the form of standby letters of credit, securities lending and other indemnifications, liquidity
agreements, written put options, recourse obligations, residual

value guarantees and contingent consideration. Table 17 presents the carrying value, maximum
exposure to loss on our guarantees and the amount with a higher risk of performance.

For more information on guarantees and certain contingent arrangements, see Note 14 (Guarantees and
Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Table 17:  Guarantees and Certain Contingent Arrangements 

(1) 
       
     Certain of these agreements included in this table are related to off-balance sheet
entities and, accordingly, are also disclosed in Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest
Entities) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

(2) 
       
     Written put options, which are in the form of derivatives, are also included in the derivative
disclosures in Note 15 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

52 

Table of Contents   

Contractual Obligations 

In addition to the contractual commitments and arrangements previously described, which, depending
on the nature of the obligation, may or may not require use of our resources, we enter into other
contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, including debt issuances for the
funding of operations and leases for premises and equipment.

Table 18 summarizes these contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009, excluding obligations
for short-term borrowing arrangements and pension and postretirement benefit plans. More
information on those obligations is in Note 12 (Short-Term Borrowings) and Note 19 (Employee
Benefits and Other Expenses) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Table 18:  Contractual Obligations 

(1) 
       
     Includes interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing checking, and market rate and other
savings accounts. 

(2) 
       
     Includes obligations under capital leases of $77 million. 

(3) 
       
     Represents agreements to purchase goods or services. 

We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities, and those of the
foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. We have various unrecognized tax obligations related to
these operations that may require future cash tax payments to various taxing authorities. Because
of their uncertain nature, the expected timing and amounts of these payments generally are not
reasonably estimable or determinable. We attempt to estimate the amount payable in the next 12
months based on the status of our tax examinations and settlement discussions. See Note 20 (Income
Taxes) to Financial Statements in this Report for more information.

We enter into derivatives, which create contractual obligations, as part of our interest rate risk
management process for our customers or for other trading activities.
See the  Risk Management  
Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management  section and Note 15 (Derivatives) to Financial
Statements in this Report for more information.

Transactions with Related Parties 

The Related Party Disclosures topic of the Codification requires disclosure of material related
party transactions, other than compensation arrangements, expense allowances and other similar
items in the ordinary course of business. We had no related party transactions required to be
reported for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.

53 

Table of Contents   

Risk Management 

Credit Risk Management Process 

Our credit risk management process is governed centrally, but provides for decentralized management
and accountability by our lines of business. Our overall credit process includes comprehensive
credit policies, judgmental or statistical credit underwriting, frequent and detailed risk
measurement and modeling, extensive credit training programs, and a continual loan review and audit
process. In addition, regulatory examiners review and perform detailed tests of our credit
underwriting, loan administration and allowance processes.

We continually evaluate and modify our credit policies to address unacceptable levels of risk as
they are identified. Accordingly, from time to time, we designate certain portfolios and loan
products as non-strategic or high risk to limit or cease their continued origination and to
specially monitor their loss potential. As an example, during the current weak economic cycle we
have significantly tightened bank-selected reduced documentation requirements as a precautionary
measure and to substantially reduce third party originations due to the negative loss trends
experienced in these channels.

A key to our credit risk management is utilizing a well controlled underwriting process, which we
believe is appropriate for the needs of our customers as well as investors who purchase the loans
or securities collateralized by the loans. We only approve applications and make loans if we
believe the customer has the ability to repay the loan or line of credit according to all its
terms. Our underwriting of loans collateralized by residential real property utilizes appraisals or
automated valuation models (AVMs) to support property values. AVMs are computer-based tools used to
estimate the market value of homes. AVMs are a lower-cost alternative to appraisals and support
valuations of large numbers of properties in a short period of time. AVMs estimate property values
based on processing large volumes of market data including market comparables and price trends for
local market areas. The primary risk associated with the use of AVMs is that the value of an
individual property may vary significantly from the average for the market area. We have processes
to periodically validate AVMs and specific risk management guidelines addressing the circumstances
when AVMs may be used. Generally, AVMs are only used in underwriting to support property values on
loan originations where the loan amount is under $250,000. For underwriting residential property
loans of $250,000 or more we require property visitation appraisals by qualified independent
appraisers.

Measuring and monitoring our credit risk is an ongoing process that tracks delinquencies,
collateral values, economic trends by geographic areas, loan-level risk grading for certain
portfolios (typically commercial) and other indications of risk to loss. Our credit risk monitoring
process is designed to enable early identification of developing risk to loss and to support our
determination of an adequate allowance for loan losses. During the current economic cycle our
monitoring and

resolution efforts have focused on loan portfolios exhibiting the highest levels of risk including
mortgage loans supported by real estate (both consumer and commercial), junior lien, commercial,
credit card and subprime portfolios. The following analysis reviews each of these loan portfolios
and their relevant concentrations and credit quality performance metrics in greater detail.

Table 19 identifies our non-strategic and liquidating consumer portfolios as of December 31, 2009
and 2008.

Table 19:  Non-Strategic and Liquidating Consumer Portfolios 

COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE (CRE)  The CRE portfolio consists of both real estate mortgages and
construction loans. The combined loans outstanding totaled $134.5 billion at December 31, 2009,
which represented 17% of total loans. Construction loans totaled $29.7 billion at December 31,
2009, or 4% of total loans. Permanent CRE loans totaled $104.8 billion at December 31, 2009, or 13%
of total loans. The portfolio is diversified both geographically and by product type. The largest
geographic concentrations are found in California and Florida, which represented 22% and 11% of the
total CRE portfolio, respectively. By product type, the largest concentrations are office buildings
and industrial/warehouse, which represented 23% and 11% of the portfolio, respectively.

At legacy Wells Fargo our underwriting of CRE loans has been focused primarily on cash flows and
creditworthiness, not solely collateral valuations. Our legacy Wells Fargo management team is
overseeing and managing the CRE loans acquired from Wachovia. At merger closing, we determined that
$19.3 billion of Wachovia CRE loans needed to be accounted for as PCI loans and we recorded an
impairment write-down of $7.0 billion in our purchase accounting, which represented a 37%
write-down of the PCI loans included in the Wachovia CRE loan portfolio. To identify and manage
newly emerging problem CRE loans we employ a high level of surveillance and regular customer
interaction to understand and manage the risks associated with these assets, including regular loan
reviews and appraisal updates. As issues are identified, management is engaged and dedicated
workout groups are in place to manage problem assets. At year-end 2009 the remaining balance of PCI
CRE loans totaled $9.3 billion. This balance reflects the refinement of the impairment analysis and
reduction from loan resolutions and write-downs.

54 

Table of Contents   

Table 20 summarizes CRE loans by state and product type with the related nonaccrual totals. At
December 31, 2009, the highest concentration of non-PCI CRE loans by state was $27.8 billion in
California, about double the next largest state concentration, and the related nonaccrual loans
totaled about $2.0 billion, or 7.2%. Office buildings, at $28.7 billion of non-PCI

loans, were the largest property type concentration, nearly double the next largest, and the related
nonaccrual loans totaled $1.1 billion, or 3.7%. Of CRE mortgage loans (excluding construction
loans), 43% related to owner-occupied properties at December 31, 2009. In aggregate, nonaccrual
loans totaled 5.6% of the non-PCI outstanding balance at December 31, 2009.

Table 20:  CRE Loans by State and Property Type 

55 

Table of Contents   

COMMERCIAL LOANS AND LEASE FINANCING  For purposes of portfolio risk management, we aggregate
commercial loans and lease financing according to market segmentation and standard industry codes.
Table 21 summarizes commercial loans and lease financing by industry with the related nonaccrual
totals. This portfolio has experienced less credit deterioration than our CRE portfolio as
evidenced by its lower nonaccrual rate of 2.6% compared with 5.2% for the CRE portfolios. We
believe this portfolio is well underwritten and is diverse in its risk with relatively even
concentrations across several industries.

Table 21:  Commercial Loans and Lease Financing by Industry 

* 
       
     Less than 1%. 

(1) 
       
     For PCI loans amounts represent carrying value. 

(2) 
       
     No other single category had loans in excess of $87 million. 

(3) 
       
     No other single category had loans in excess of $5.3 billion. The next largest categories
included investors, hotel/restaurant, media, securities firms, non-residential construction,
leisure, trucking, dairy, gaming and contractors. 

REAL ESTATE 1-4 FAMILY FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS  As part of the Wachovia acquisition, we acquired
residential first and home equity loans that are very similar to the Wells Fargo core originated
portfolio. We also acquired the Pick-a-Pay portfolio, which is composed primarily of option payment
adjustable-rate mortgage and fixed-rate mortgage products. Under purchase accounting for the
Wachovia acquisition, we made purchase accounting adjustments to the Pick-a-Pay loans considered to
be impaired under accounting guidance for PCI loans. See the
 Risk Management   Pick-a-Pay
Portfolio  section in this Report for additional detail.

The concentrations of real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans by state are presented in Table 22. Our
real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans to borrowers in the state of California represented
approximately 14% of total loans at both December 31, 2009 and 2008, mostly within the larger
metropolitan areas, with no single area consisting of more than 3% of total loans. Of this amount,
3% of total loans were PCI loans from Wachovia. Changes in real estate values and underlying
economic or market conditions for these areas are monitored continuously within the credit risk
management process. Beginning in 2007, the residential real estate markets began to experience
significant declines in property values and several markets in California, specifically in Southern
California and the Central Valley, experienced declines that turned out to be more significant than
the national decline.

Some of our real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans, including first mortgage and home equity
products, include an interest-only feature as part of the loan terms. At December 31, 2009, these
loans were approximately 15% of total loans, compared with 11% at the end of 2008. Most of these
loans are considered to be prime or near prime. We have manageable adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM)
reset risk across our Wells Fargo originated and owned mortgage loan portfolios.

Table 22:  Real Estate 1-4 Family Mortgage Loans by State 

* 
       
     Less than 1%. 

(1) 
       
     Consists of 47 states; no state had loans in excess of $975 million. 

(2) 
       
     Consists of 41 states; no state had loans in excess of $7.8 billion. Includes $15.2 billion in
GNMA pool buyouts. 

56 

Table of Contents   

The deterioration in specific segments of the Home Equity portfolios required a targeted
approach to managing these assets. In fourth quarter 2007, a liquidating portfolio was identified,
consisting of home equity loans generated through the wholesale channel not behind a Wells Fargo
first mortgage, and home equity loans acquired through correspondents. The liquidating portion of
the Home Equity portfolio was $8.4 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $10.3 billion a year
ago. The loans in this liquidating portfolio represent about 1% of total loans outstanding at
December 31, 2009, and contain some of the highest risk in our $123.8 billion Home Equity
portfolios, with a loss rate of 11.17% compared with

3.28% for the core portfolio. The loans in the liquidating portfolio are largely concentrated in
geographic markets that have experienced the most abrupt and steepest declines in housing prices.
The core portfolio was $115.4 billion at December 31, 2009, of which 97% was originated through the
retail channel and approximately 17% of the outstanding balance was in a first lien position. Table
23 includes the credit attributes of these two portfolios. California loans represent the largest
state concentration in each of these portfolios and have experienced among the highest early-term
delinquency and loss rates.

Table 23:  Home Equity Portfolios  (1)  

(1) 
       
     Consists of real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgages and lines of credit secured by
real estate from all groups, excluding PCI loans. 

(2) 
       
     Includes equity lines of credit and closed-end second liens associated with the Pick-a-Pay
portfolio totaling $1.8 billion at December 31, 2009, and $2.1 billion at December 31, 2008. 

PICK-A-PAY PORTFOLIO  Our Pick-a-Pay portfolio, which we acquired in the Wachovia merger, had an
unpaid principal balance of $103.7 billion and a carrying value of $85.2 billion at December 31,
2009. This portfolio includes loans that offer payment options (Pick-a-Pay option payment loans),
loans that were originated without the option payment feature and loans that no longer offer the
option feature as a result of our modification efforts since the acquisition. At December 31, 2009,
the unpaid principal balance of Pick-a-Pay option payment loans totaled $73.1 billion, or 70% of
the total Pick-a-Pay portfolio, down significantly from $101.3 billion, or 86%, at December 31,
2008, primarily due to loan modifications, paid-in full loans and net charge-offs. The Pick-a-Pay
portfolio is a liquidating portfolio as Wachovia ceased originating new Pick-a-Pay loans in 2008.
Equity lines of credit and closed-end second liens associated with Pick-a-Pay loans are reported in
the Home Equity core portfolio.

PCI loans in the Pick-a-Pay portfolio had an unpaid principal balance of $55.1 billion and a
carrying value of $37.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The carrying value of the PCI loans is net of
purchase accounting write-downs to reflect their fair value at acquisition. Upon acquisition, we
recorded a $22.4 billion write-down in purchase accounting on Pick-a-Pay loans that were impaired.
Losses to date on this portfolio are reasonably in line with management s original expectations.
Our most recent life-of-loan loss projections show an improvement driven in part by extensive and
currently successful modification efforts as well as improving delinquency roll rate trends and
further stabilization in the housing market.

Pick-a-Pay option payment loans may be adjustable or fixed rate. They are home mortgages on which
the customer has the option each month to select from among four payment options: (1) a minimum
payment as described below, (2) an interest-only payment, (3) a fully amortizing 15-year payment,
or (4) a fully amortizing 30-year payment.

57 

Table of Contents   

The minimum monthly payment for substantially all of our Pick-a-Pay loans is reset annually. The
new minimum monthly payment amount usually cannot increase by more than 7.5% of the then-existing
principal and interest payment amount. The minimum payment may not be sufficient to pay the monthly
interest due and in those situations a loan on which the customer has made a minimum payment is
subject to  negative amortization,  where unpaid interest is added to the principal balance of the
loan. The amount of interest that has been added to a loan balance is referred to as  deferred
interest.  Total deferred interest of $3.7 billion at December 31, 2009, was down from $4.3 billion
at December 31, 2008, due to loan modification efforts as well as falling interest rates resulting
in the minimum payment option covering the interest and some principal on many loans. At December
31, 2009, approximately 47% of customers choosing the minimum payment option did not defer
interest.

Deferral of interest on a Pick-a-Pay loan may continue as long as the loan balance remains below a
pre-defined principal cap, which is based on the percentage that the current loan balance
represents to the original loan balance. Loans with an original loan-to-value (LTV) ratio equal to
or below 85% have a cap of 125% of the original loan balance, and these loans represent
substantially all the Pick-a-Pay portfolio. Loans with an original LTV ratio above 85% have a cap
of 110% of the original loan balance. Most of the Pick-a-Pay loans on which there is a deferred
interest balance re-amortize (the monthly payment amount is reset or  recast ) on the earlier of
the date when the loan balance reaches its principal cap, or the 10-year anniversary of the loan.
There exists a small population of Pick-a-Pay loans for which recast occurs at the

five-year anniversary. After a recast, the customers  new payment terms are reset to the amount
necessary to repay the balance over the remainder of the original loan term.

Due to the terms of the Pick-a-Pay portfolio, there is little recast risk over the next three
years. Based on assumptions of a flat rate environment, if all eligible customers elect the minimum
payment option 100% of the time and no balances prepay, we would expect the following balances of
loans to recast based on reaching the principal cap: $2 million in 2010, $1 million in 2011 and $4
million in 2012. In 2009, the amount of loans recast based on reaching the principal cap was $1
million. In addition, we would expect the following balances of loans to start fully amortizing due
to reaching their recast anniversary date and also having a payment change at the recast date
greater than the annual 7.5% reset: $44 million in 2010, $52 million in 2011 and $58 million in
2012. In 2009, the amount of loans reaching their recast anniversary date and also having a payment
change over the annual 7.5% reset was $25 million.

Table 24 reflects the geographic distribution of the Pick-a-Pay portfolio broken out between PCI
loans and all other loans. In stressed housing markets with declining home prices and increasing
delinquencies, the LTV ratio is a useful metric in predicting future real estate 1-4 family first
mortgage loan performance, including potential charge-offs. Because PCI loans were initially
recorded at fair value written down for expected credit losses, the ratio of the carrying value to
the current collateral value for acquired loans with credit impairment will be lower as compared
with the LTV based on the unpaid principal. For informational purposes, we have included both
ratios in the following table.

Table 24:  Pick-a-Pay Portfolio 

(1) 
       
     The current LTV ratio is calculated as the unpaid principal balance plus the unpaid
principal balance of any equity lines of credit that share common collateral divided by the
collateral value. Collateral values are determined using AVMs and are updated quarterly. AVMs are
computer-based tools used to estimate market values of homes based on processing large volumes of
market data including market comparables and price trends for local market areas. 

(2) 
       
     Carrying value, which does not reflect the allowance for loan losses, includes purchase
accounting adjustments, which, for PCI loans, are the nonaccretable difference and the accretable
yield, and for all other loans, an adjustment to mark the loans to a market yield at date of merger
less any subsequent charge-offs. 

58 

Table of Contents   

To maximize return and allow flexibility for customers to avoid foreclosure, we have in place
several loss mitigation strategies for our Pick-a-Pay loan portfolio. We contact customers who are
experiencing difficulty and may in certain cases modify the terms of a loan based on a customer s
documented income and other circumstances. We also are actively modifying the Pick-a-Pay portfolio.
Because of the write-down of the PCI loans in purchase accounting, which have been aggregated in
pools, our post merger modifications to PCI Pick-a-Pay loans have not resulted in any
modification-related provision for credit losses. To the extent we modify loans not in the PCI
Pick-a-Pay portfolio, we establish an impairment reserve in accordance with the applicable
accounting requirements for loan restructurings.

We also have taken steps to work with customers to refinance or restructure their Pick-a-Pay loans
into other loan products. For customers at risk, we offer combinations of term extensions of up to
40 years (from 30 years), interest rate reductions, to charge no interest on a portion of the
principal for some period of time and, in geographies with substantial property value declines, we
will even offer permanent principal reductions. In 2009, we completed over 52,000 Pick-a-Pay loan
modifications. The majority of the loan modifications were concentrated in our PCI Pick-a-Pay loan
portfolio. Approximately 31% of the PCI portfolio was modified in 2009. Nearly 70,000 modification
offers were proactively sent to customers during 2009. As part of the modification process, the
loans are re-underwritten, income is documented and the negative amortization feature is
eliminated. Most of the modifications result in material payment reduction to the customer. We
continually reassess our loss mitigation strategies and may adopt additional or different
strategies in the future. In fourth quarter 2009, the U.S. Treasury Department s  Home Affordable
Modification Program  (HAMP) was rolled out to the customers in this portfolio. As of December 31,
2009, over 45,000 HAMP applications were being reviewed by our loan servicing department. We
believe a key factor to successful loss mitigation is tailoring the revised loan payment to the
customer s sustainable income.

CREDIT CARDS  Our credit card portfolio, a portion of which is included in the Wells Fargo Financial
discussion below, totaled $24.0 billion at December 31, 2009, which represents only 3% of our total
outstanding loans and is smaller than the credit card portfolios of each of our large bank peers.
Delinquencies of 30 days or more were 5.5% of credit card outstandings at December 31, 2009, up
from 5.0% a year ago. Net charge-offs were 10.8% for 2009, up from 7.2% in 2008, reflecting high
bankruptcy filings and the current economic environment. We have tightened underwriting criteria
and imposed credit line management changes to minimize balance transfers and line increases.

WELLS FARGO FINANCIAL  Wells Fargo Financial s portfolio consists of real estate loans,
substantially all of which are secured debt consolidation loans, and both prime and non-prime auto
secured loans, unsecured loans and credit cards.

Wells Fargo Financial had $25.8 billion and $29.1 billion in real estate secured loans at December
31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Of this portfolio, $1.6 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively,
was considered prime based on secondary market standards and has been priced to the customer
accordingly. The remaining portfolio is non-prime but has been originated with standards to reduce
credit risk. These loans were originated through our retail channel with documented income, LTV
limits based on credit quality and property characteristics, and risk-based pricing. In addition,
the loans were originated without teaser rates, interest-only or negative amortization features.
Credit losses in the portfolio have increased in the current economic environment compared with
historical levels, but performance remained similar to prime portfolios in the industry with
overall loss rates of 3.13% in 2009 on the entire portfolio. At December 31, 2009, $8.4 billion of
the portfolio was originated with customer FICO scores below 620, but these loans have further
restrictions on LTV and debt-to-income ratios intended to limit the credit risk.

Wells Fargo Financial also had $16.5 billion and $23.6 billion in auto secured loans and leases at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, of which $4.4 billion and $6.3 billion, respectively,
were originated with customer FICO scores below 620. Loss rates in this portfolio in 2009 were
5.12% for FICO scores of 620 and above, and 7.00% for FICO scores below 620. These loans were
priced based on relative risk. Of this portfolio, $11.3 billion represented loans and leases
originated through its indirect auto business, a channel Wells Fargo Financial ceased using near
the end of 2008.

Wells Fargo Financial had $8.1 billion and $8.4 billion in unsecured loans and credit card
receivables at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, of which $1.0 billion and $1.3 billion,
respectively, was originated with customer FICO scores below 620. Net loss rates in this portfolio
were 13.35% in 2009 for FICO scores of 620 and above, and 19.78% for FICO scores below 620. Wells
Fargo Financial has been actively tightening credit policies and managing credit lines to reduce
exposure given current economic conditions.

NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER NONPERFORMING ASSETS 

Table 25 shows the five-year trend for nonaccrual loans and other NPAs. We generally place loans on
nonaccrual status when:

the full and timely collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain; 

they are 90 days (120 days with respect to real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages
and auto loans) past due for interest or principal (unless both well-secured and in the process of
collection); or 

part of the principal balance has been charged off and no restructuring has occurred. 

Note
1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  Loans) to Financial Statements in this Report
describes our accounting policy for nonaccrual loans.

59 

Table of Contents   

Table 25:  Nonaccrual Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets  

(1) 
       
     Includes nonaccrual mortgages held for sale and loans held for sale in their respective
loan categories. 

(2) 
       
     Excludes loans acquired from Wachovia that are accounted for as PCI loans. 

(3) 
       
     Includes $9.5 billion and $3.6 billion at December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008,
respectively, of loans classified as impaired. See Note 6  (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for further information on
impaired loans. 

(4) 
       
     Consistent with regulatory reporting requirements, foreclosed real estate securing Government
National Mortgage Association (GNMA) loans is classified as nonperforming. Both principal and
interest for GNMA loans secured by the foreclosed real estate are collectible because the GNMA
loans are insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of
Veterans Affairs (VA). 

(5) 
       
     Includes real estate investments (contingent interest loans accounted for as investments) that
would be classified as nonaccrual if these assets were recorded as loans, and nonaccrual debt
securities. 

Total NPAs were $27.6 billion (3.53% of total loans) at December 31, 2009, and included $24.4
billion of nonaccrual loans and $3.2 billion of foreclosed assets, real estate, and other
nonaccrual investments. Nonaccrual loans increased $17.6 billion from December 31, 2008. The rate
of nonaccrual growth in 2009 was somewhat increased by the effect of purchase accounting applicable
to substantially all of Wachovia s nonaccrual loans as PCI loans at year-end 2008. This purchase
accounting resulted in reclassifying all but $97 million of Wachovia s nonaccruing loans to
accruing status, virtually eliminating all nonaccrual loans as of our merger date, and limiting
comparability of this metric and related credit ratios with prior periods and our peers. Typically,
changes to nonaccrual loans period-over-period represent inflows for loans that reach a specified
past due status, offset by reductions for loans that are charged off, sold, transferred to
foreclosed properties, or are no longer classified as nonaccrual because they return to accrual
status. During 2009, because of purchase accounting, the rate of growth in nonaccrual loans was
higher than it would have been without PCI loan accounting. The impact of purchase accounting on
our credit data should diminish over time. In addition, we have also increased loan modifications
and restructurings to assist homeowners and other borrowers in the current difficult economic
cycle.

This increase is expected to result in elevated nonaccrual loan levels for longer periods because
consumer nonaccrual loans that have been modified remain in nonaccrual status until a borrower has
made six consecutive contractual payments, inclusive of consecutive payments made prior to the
modification. For a consumer accruing loan that has been modified, if the borrower has demonstrated
performance under the previous terms and shows the capacity to continue to perform under the
restructured terms, the loan will remain in accruing status. Otherwise, the loan will be placed in
a nonaccrual status until the borrower has made six consecutive contractual payments.

As explained in more detail below, we believe the loss exposure expected in our NPAs is mitigated
by three factors. First, 96% of our nonaccrual loans are secured. Second, losses have already been
recognized on 36% of total nonaccrual loans. Third, there is a segment of nonaccrual loans for
which specific impairment reserves have been established in the allowance, while the remaining NPAs
are covered by general reserves. We are seeing signs of stability in our credit portfolio, as
growth in credit losses slowed during 2009. While losses are expected to remain elevated, a more
favorable economic outlook and improved credit statistics in several portfolios further increase
our confidence that our credit cycle is turning, provided economic conditions do not deteriorate
further.

60 

Table of Contents   

Commercial and CRE nonaccrual loans amounted to $11.6 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with
$2.9 billion at December 31, 2008. Of the $11.6 billion total commercial and CRE nonaccrual loans
at December 31, 2009:

$7.4 billion have had $1.0 billion of loan impairments recorded for expected life-of-loan losses
in accordance with impairment accounting standards; 

the remaining $4.2 billion have reserves as part of the allowance for loan losses; 

$10.7 billion (93%) are secured, of which $7.0 billion (61%) are secured by real estate, and the
remainder secured by other assets such as receivables, inventory and equipment; 

over one-third of
these nonaccrual loans are paying interest that is being applied to principal; and 

31% have been written down by approximately 52%. 

Consumer nonaccrual loans (including nonaccrual troubled debt restructurings (TDRs)) amounted to
$12.7 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $3.8 billion at December 31, 2008. The $8.9
billion increase in nonaccrual consumer loans from December 31, 2008, represented an increase of
$7.5 billion in 1-4 family first mortgage loans and an increase of $1.4 billion in 1-4 family
junior liens. In addition, there were accruing consumer TDRs of $6.2 billion at December 31, 2009.
Of the $18.9 billion of consumer nonaccrual loans and accruing TDRs:

$6.1 billion have had charge-offs totaling $2.6 billion; consumer loans secured by real estate
are charged-off to the appraised value, less cost to sell, of the underlying collateral when these
loans reach 180 days delinquent; 

$8.3 billion have $1.8 billion in life-of-loan TDR loss impairment reserves in addition to any
charge-offs; and 

the remaining $10.6 billion have reserves as part of the allowance for loan
losses. 

Of the $12.7 billion of consumer nonaccrual loans:

NPAs at December 31, 2009, included $960 million of loans that are FHA insured or VA guaranteed,
which have little to no loss content, and $2.2 billion of foreclosed assets, which have been
written down to the value of the underlying collateral. Foreclosed assets included $852 million
that resulted from PCI loans.

Table 26 summarizes NPAs for each of the four quarters of 2009. It shows a trend of declining
increase in NPAs after the first quarter of 2009.

Table 26:  Nonaccrual Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets During 2009 

61 

Table of Contents   

While commercial and CRE nonaccrual loans were up in 2009, the dollar amount of the increase
declined between quarters and the rate of growth slowed considerably throughout the year.
Commercial and CRE nonaccrual loans increased $8.6 billion, or 295%, from December 31, 2008.
Similarly, the growth rate in consumer nonaccrual loans also slowed in 2009. Wells Fargo s consumer
nonaccrual loans increased $8.9 billion, or 233%, from December 31, 2008. Wachovia s Pick-a-Pay
portfolio represents the largest portion of consumer nonaccrual loans and was up $3.3 billion in
2009.

Total consumer TDRs amounted to $8.3 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $1.6 billion at
December 31, 2008. Of the TDRs, $2.1 billion at December 31, 2009, and $409 million at December 31,
2008, were classified as nonaccrual. Consumer loans that enter into a TDR before they reach
nonaccrual status (normally 120 days past due) remain in accrual status as long as they continue to
perform according to the terms of the TDR. We strive to identify troubled loans and work with the
customer to modify to more affordable terms before their loan reaches nonaccrual status.
Accordingly, during 2009 most consumer loans were in accrual status at the time of TDR and
therefore most of our consumer TDR loans are in accrual status at the end of the year. We establish
an impairment reserve when a loan is restructured in a TDR.

At December 31, 2008, total nonaccrual loans were $6.8 billion (0.79% of total loans) up from $2.7
billion (0.70%) at December 31, 2007. A significant portion of the $4.1 billion increase in nonaccrual loans
was in the real estate 1-4 family first mortgage portfolio, including $742 million in Wells Fargo
Financial real estate and $424 million in Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, and was due to the national
rise in mortgage default rates. Total NPAs were $9.0 billion (1.04% of total loans) at December 31,
2008, compared with $3.9 billion (1.01%) at December 31, 2007. Total NPAs at December 31, 2008,
excluded $20.0 billion of PCI loans that were previously reflected as nonperforming by Wachovia.

We expect NPAs to continue to grow, in part reflecting our efforts to modify more real estate loans
to reduce foreclosures and keep customers in their homes. We remain focused on proactively
identifying problem credits, moving them to non-performing status and recording the loss content in
a timely manner. We have increased and will continue to increase staffing in our workout and
collection organizations to ensure these troubled borrowers receive the attention and help they
need. See the  Risk Management   Allowance for Credit Losses  section in this Report for
additional discussion. The performance of any one loan can be affected by external factors, such as
economic or market conditions, or factors affecting a particular borrower.

If interest due on the book balances of all nonaccrual loans (including loans that were, but are no
longer on nonaccrual at year end) had been accrued under the original terms, approximately $815
million of interest would have been recorded as income in 2009, compared with $71 million recorded
as interest income.

At December 31, 2009, substantially all of our foreclosed assets of $3.2 billion have been in the
portfolio one year or less.

LOANS 90 DAYS OR MORE PAST DUE AND STILL ACCRUING 

Loans included in this category are 90 days or more past due as to interest or principal and still
accruing, because they are (1) well-secured and in the process of collection or (2) real estate 1-4
family first mortgage loans or consumer loans exempt under regulatory rules from being classified
as nonaccrual. PCI loans are excluded from the disclosure of loans 90 days or more past due and
still accruing interest. Even though certain of them are 90 days or more contractually past due,
they are considered to be accruing because the interest income on these loans relates to the
establishment of an accretable yield under the accounting for PCI loans and not to contractual
interest payments.

Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing totaled $22.2 billion, $11.8 billion, $6.4
billion, $5.1 billion and $3.6 billion at December 31, 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. The total included $15.3 billion, $8.2 billion, $4.8 billion, $3.9 billion and $2.9
billion for the same dates, respectively, in advances pursuant to our servicing agreements to GNMA
mortgage pools and similar loans whose repayments are insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA.

Table 27 reflects loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing excluding the
insured/guaranteed GNMA and similar loans.

Table 27:   
       
      Loans 90 Days or More Past Due and Still Accruing (Excluding Insured/Guaranteed GNMA and
Similar Loans)  

(1) 
       
     Includes mortgage loans held for sale 90 days or more past due and still accruing. 

62 

Table of Contents   

NET CHARGE-OFFS  Table 28 presents net charge-offs for the four quarters and full year of 2009.

Table 28:  Net Charge-offs 

(1) 
       
     Annualized 

Net charge-offs in 2009 were $18.2 billion (2.21% of average total loans outstanding) compared with
$7.8 billion (1.97%) in 2008. The year over year increase in net charge-offs is significantly
impacted by the merger as the 2008 totals reflect only Wells Fargo loss results. Approximately half
of the increase in net charge-offs from 2008 came from deterioration in the non-PCI Wachovia
portfolio; charge-offs from these portfolios took two to three quarters to emerge as a result of
purchase accounting at the end of 2008. The increases in losses during the year were anticipated
given the economic conditions in the marketplace affecting our customers. The pace of loss
increases decelerated quarter to quarter throughout the year as the loss levels in several
portfolios have seen some level of stabilization. While increases in losses were distributed across
the portfolio, the majority of the increase was concentrated in commercial, CRE and consumer real
estate. The increases in the commercial and CRE portfolios were influenced by the impact on those
businesses providing consumer cyclical goods and services or those related to the residential real
estate industry. For the consumer real estate portfolios, continued property value disruption
combined with rising unemployment affected loss levels.

Net charge-offs in the 1-4 family first mortgage portfolio totaled $3.1 billion in 2009. Our
relatively high-quality 1-4 family first mortgage portfolio continued to reflect relatively low
loss rates, although until housing prices fully stabilize, these credit losses will continue to
remain elevated. Credit card charge-offs increased $1.1 billion to $2.5 billion in 2009. We
continued to see increases in delinquency and loss levels in the consumer unsecured loan portfolios
as a result of higher unemployment.

Net charge-offs in the real estate 1-4 family junior lien portfolio were $4.6 billion in 2009. The
rise in unemployment levels is also increasing the frequency of loss. More information about the
Home Equity portfolio is available in Table 23 in this Report and related discussion.

Commercial and CRE net charge-offs were $5.0 billion in 2009 compared with $1.8 billion a year ago.
Wholesale credit results continued to deteriorate. Commercial lending requests slowed during 2009
as borrowers continued to reduce their receivable and inventory levels to conserve cash.

In 2008, net charge-offs were $7.8 billion (1.97% of average total loans), up $4.3 billion from
$3.5 billion (1.03%) in 2007. Commercial and CRE net charge-offs increased $1.3 billion in 2008
from 2007, of which $379 million was from loans originated through our Business Direct channel.
Business Direct consists primarily of unsecured lines of credit to small firms and sole proprietors
that tend to perform in a manner similar to credit cards. Total wholesale net charge-offs
(excluding Business Direct) were $967 million (0.11% of average loans). The remaining balance of
commercial and CRE loans (real estate mortgage, real estate construction and lease financing)
experienced some deterioration from 2007 with loss levels increasing, reflecting the credit
environment in 2008.

Home Equity net charge-offs were $2.2 billion (2.59% of average Home Equity loans) in 2008,
compared with $595 million (0.73%) in 2007. Since our loss experience through third party channels
was significantly worse than other retail channels, in 2007 we segregated these indirect loans into
a liquidating portfolio. We also experienced increased net charge-offs in our unsecured consumer
portfolios, such as credit cards and lines of credit, in part due to growth and in part due to
increased economic stress in households.

63 

Table of Contents   

Wells Fargo Financial auto portfolio net charge-offs for 2008 were $1.2 billion (4.50% of average
auto loans), compared with $1.0 billion (3.45%) in 2007. While we continued to reduce the size of
this portfolio and limited additional growth, the economic environment adversely affected portfolio
results. We remained focused on our loss mitigation strategies; however, credit performance
deteriorated as a result of increased unemployment and depressed used car values, resulting in
higher than expected losses for 2008.

ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES  The allowance for credit losses, which consists of the allowance for
loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments, is management s estimate of credit
losses inherent in the loan portfolio at the balance sheet date and excludes PCI loans which have a
nonaccretable difference to absorb losses and loans carried at fair value. The detail of the changes in the allowance for
credit losses, including charge-offs and recoveries by loan category, is in Note 6 (Loans and
Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.

We employ a disciplined process and methodology to establish our allowance for loan losses each
quarter. This process takes into consideration many factors, including historical and forecasted
loss trends, loan-level credit quality ratings and loan grade specific loss factors. The process
involves difficult, subjective, and complex judgments. In addition, we review several credit ratio
trends, such as the ratio of the allowance for loan losses to nonaccrual loans and the ratio of the
allowance for loan losses to net charge-offs. These trends are not determinative of the adequacy of
the allowance as we use several analytical tools in determining the adequacy of the allowance.

For individually graded (typically commercial) portfolios, we generally use loan-level credit
quality ratings, which are based on borrower information and strength of collateral, combined with
historically based grade specific loss factors. The allowance for individually rated nonaccruing
commercial loans with an outstanding exposure of $5 million or greater is determined through an
individual impairment analysis. For statistically evaluated portfolios (typically consumer), we
generally leverage models which use credit-related characteristics such as credit rating scores,
delinquency migration rates, vintages, and portfolio concentrations to estimate loss content.
Additionally, the allowance for consumer TDRs is based on the risk characteristics of the modified
loans and the resultant estimated cash flows discounted at the pre-modification effective yield of
the loan. While the allowance is determined using product and business segment estimates, it is
available to absorb losses in the entire loan portfolio.

At December 31, 2009, the allowance for loan losses totaled $24.5 billion (3.13% of total loans),
compared with $21.0 billion (2.43%), at December 31, 2008. The allowance for credit losses was
$25.0 billion (3.20% of total loans) at December 31, 2009, and $21.7 billion (2.51%) at December
31, 2008. The allowance

for credit losses included $333 million related to PCI loans acquired from Wachovia. Loans acquired
from Wachovia are included in total loans net of related purchase accounting write-downs. The
reserve for unfunded credit commitments was $515 million at December 31, 2009, and $698 million at
December 31, 2008. In addition to the allowance for credit losses there was $22.9 billion of
nonaccretable difference at December 31, 2009, to absorb losses for PCI loans.

The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to total nonaccrual loans was 103% and 319% at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in this ratio reflects some deterioration in
the underlying loan portfolio. However, the trend in the ratio is also profoundly affected by the
impact of purchase accounting eliminating virtually all legacy Wachovia nonaccrual loans at
December 31, 2008. In general, this ratio may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to
such factors as the mix of loan types in the portfolio, borrower credit strength and the value and
marketability of collateral. Over half of nonaccrual loans were home mortgages, auto and other
consumer loans at December 31, 2009.

The ratio of the allowance for loan losses to annual net charge-offs was 135%, 268% and 150% at
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decline in this ratio from 2008 is largely due
to the fact that only legacy Wells Fargo losses were included in 2008, but the allowance
anticipated emerging losses from the combined portfolios. The allowance as of December 31, 2008,
anticipated the increased charge-offs that occurred over 2009, while the allowance for December 31,
2009, anticipates inherent losses that will be recognized as charge-offs in future periods. When
anticipated charge-offs are projected to decline from current levels, this ratio will shrink. As
more of the portfolio experiences charge-offs, charge-off levels continue to increase and the
remaining portfolio is anticipated to consist of higher quality vintage loans subjected to
tightened underwriting standards administered during the downturn in the credit cycle. As
charge-off levels peak, we anticipate coverage levels will shrink until charge-off levels return to
more normalized levels. This ratio may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to many
factors, including general economic conditions, customer credit strength and the marketability of
collateral. The allowance for loan losses reflects management s estimate of credit losses inherent
in the loan portfolio based on loss emergence periods of the respective loans, underlying economic
and market conditions, among other factors. See the  Critical Accounting Policies   Allowance for
Credit Losses  section in this Report for additional information. The allowance for loan losses at
December 31, 2008, also includes the allowance acquired from the Wachovia acquisition (except for
PCI loans), while 2008 net charge-offs do not include activity related to Wachovia.

The provision for credit losses totaled $21.7 billion in 2009, $16.0 billion in 2008 and $4.9
billion in 2007. In 2009, the provision of $21.7 billion included a credit reserve build of $3.5
billion, which was primarily driven by three factors: (1) deterioration in economic conditions that
increased the projected losses in our commercial portfolios, (2) additional reserves associated
with loan modification programs

64 

Table of Contents   

designed to keep qualifying borrowers in their homes, and (3) the establishment of additional
reserves for PCI loans.

In 2008, the provision of $16.0 billion included a credit reserve build of $8.1 billion in excess
of net charge-offs, which included $3.9 billion to conform loss emergence coverage periods to the
most conservative of each company within FFIEC guidelines. The remainder of the reserve build was
attributable to higher projected loss rates across the majority of the consumer credit businesses,
and some credit deterioration and growth in the wholesale portfolios.

In 2007, the provision of $4.9 billion included a credit reserve build of $1.4 billion in excess of
net charge-offs, which was our estimate of the increase in incurred losses in our loan portfolio at
year-end 2007, primarily related to the Home Equity portfolio.

Table 29 presents the allocation of the allowance for credit losses by type of loans. The $3.3
billion increase in the allowance for credit losses from year-end 2008 to year-end 2009 largely
reflects continued stress in both the commercial and residential real estate sectors, and includes
reserve builds reflecting the significant increase in modified residential real

estate loans that result in TDRs. In determining the appropriate allowance attributable to our
residential real estate portfolios, the loss rates used in our analysis include the impacts of our
established loan modification programs. When modifications occur or are probable to occur, our
allowance reflects the impact of these modifications, taking into consideration the associated
credit cost, including re-defaults of modified loans and projected loss severity. The loss content
associated with existing and probable loan modifications has been considered in our allowance
reserving methodology.

Changes in the allowance reflect changes in statistically derived loss estimates, historical loss
experience, current trends in borrower risk and/or general economic activity on portfolio
performance, and management s estimate for imprecision and uncertainty. Effective December 31,
2006, the entire allowance was assigned to individual portfolio types to better reflect our view of
risk in these portfolios. The allowance for credit losses includes a combination of baseline loss
estimates and a range of imprecision or uncertainty specific to each portfolio segment previously
categorized as unallocated in prior years.

Table 29:  Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL) 

We believe the allowance for credit losses of $25.0 billion was adequate to cover credit
losses inherent in the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments, at December 31, 2009.
The allowance for credit losses is subject to change and considers existing factors at the time,
including economic or market conditions and ongoing internal and external examination processes.
Due to the sensitivity of the allowance for credit losses to changes in the economic environment,
it is

possible that unanticipated economic deterioration would create incremental credit losses not
anticipated as of the balance sheet date. Our process for determining the adequacy of the allowance
for credit losses is discussed in the  Critical Accounting Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses 
section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance
 for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.

65 

Table of Contents   

RESERVE FOR MORTGAGE LOAN REPURCHASE LOSSES  We sell mortgage loans to various parties, including
government-sponsored entities (GSEs), under contractual provisions that include various
representations and warranties which typically cover ownership of the loan, compliance with loan
criteria set forth in the applicable agreement, validity of the lien securing the loan, absence of
delinquent taxes or liens against the property securing the loan, and similar matters. We may be
required to repurchase the mortgage loans with identified defects, indemnify the investor or
insurer, or reimburse the investor for credit loss incurred on the loan (collectively  repurchase )
in the event of a material breach of such contractual representations or warranties. On occasion,
we may negotiate global settlements in order to resolve a pipeline of demands in lieu of
repurchasing the loans. We manage the risk associated with potential repurchases or other forms of
settlement through our underwriting and quality assurance practices and by servicing mortgage loans
to meet investor and secondary market standards.

We establish mortgage repurchase reserves related to various representations and warranties that
reflect management s estimate of losses based on a combination of factors. Such factors incorporate
estimated levels of defects based on internal quality assurance sampling, default expectations,
historical investor repurchase demand and appeals success rates (where the investor rescinds the
demand based on a cure of the defect or acknowledges that the loan satisfies the investor s
applicable representations and warranties), reimbursement by correspondent and other third party
originators, and projected loss severity. We establish a reserve at the time loans are sold and
continually update our reserve estimate during their life. Although
 investors may demand repurchase at any time, the majority of repurchase demands occurs in the first 24 to 36
months following origination of the mortgage loan and can vary by investor. Currently, repurchase
demands primarily relate to 2006 through 2008 vintages.

During 2009 we experienced elevated levels of repurchase activity measured by number of loans,
investor repurchase demands and our level of repurchases. These trends accelerated in the fourth
quarter. We repurchased or otherwise settled mortgage loans with balances of $1.3 billion in 2009,
compared with $426 million in 2008. We incurred losses on repurchase activity of $514 million in
2009, compared with $251 million in 2008. Our reserve for repurchases, included in  Accrued
expenses and other liabilities  in our consolidated financial statements, was $1.0 billion at
December 31, 2009, and $589 million at December 31, 2008. To the extent that repurchased loans are
nonperforming, the loans are classified as nonaccrual. Nonperforming loans included $275 million of
repurchased loans at December 31, 2009, and $193 million at December 31, 2008.

Approximately three-fourths of our repurchases were government agency conforming loans from Freddie
Mac and Fannie Mae. The increase in repurchase and settlement activity during 2009 primarily
related to weaker economic conditions as investors, predominantly GSEs, made increased demands
associated with higher levels of defaulted loans. Our appeals success rate improved from 2008 to
2009 reflecting our enhanced and more timely loss mitigation efforts.

However, the annual loss increased year over year due to higher volumes. The appeals success rate
is one indicator of our future repurchase losses and may also be affected by factors such as the
quality of repurchase demands, the mix of reasons for the demands, and investor repurchase demand
strategies.

To the extent that economic conditions and the housing market do not recover or future investor
repurchase demand and appeals success rates differ from past experience, we could continue to have
increased demands and increased loss severity on repurchases, causing future additions to the
repurchase reserve. However, some of the underwriting standards that were permitted by the GSEs for
conforming loans in the 2006 through 2008 vintages, which significantly contributed to recent
levels of repurchase demands, were tightened starting in mid to late 2008. Accordingly, we do not
expect a similar level of repurchase requests from the 2009 and prospective vintages, absent
deterioration in economic conditions.

Asset/Liability Management 

Asset/liability management involves the evaluation, monitoring and management of interest rate
risk, market risk, liquidity and funding. The Corporate Asset/Liability Management Committee
(Corporate ALCO)   which oversees these risks and reports periodically to the Finance Committee of
the Board of Directors   consists of senior financial and business executives. Each of our principal
business groups has its own asset/liability management committee and process linked to the
Corporate ALCO process.

INTEREST RATE RISK  Interest rate risk, which potentially can have a significant earnings impact, is
an integral part of being a financial intermediary. We are subject to interest rate risk because:

assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times (for example, if assets reprice
faster than liabilities and interest rates are generally falling, earnings will initially decline); 

assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts (for example, when
the general level of interest rates is falling, we may reduce rates paid on checking and savings
deposit accounts by an amount that is less than the general decline in market interest rates); 

short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts (for example, the
shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields and funding costs differently); or 

the remaining maturity of various assets or liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates
change (for example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline sharply, MBS held in the
securities available-for-sale portfolio may prepay significantly earlier than anticipated, which
could reduce portfolio income). 

Interest rates may also have a direct or indirect effect on loan demand, credit losses, mortgage
origination volume, the fair value of MSRs and other financial instruments, the value of the
pension liability and other items affecting earnings.

66 

Table of Contents   

We assess interest rate risk by comparing our most likely earnings plan with various earnings
simulations using many interest rate scenarios that differ in the direction of interest rate
changes, the degree of change over time, the speed of change and the projected shape of the yield
curve. For example, as of December 31, 2009, our most recent simulation indicated estimated
earnings at risk of approximately 5% of our most likely earnings plan over the next 12 months using
a scenario in which the federal funds rate rises to 4.25% and the 10-year Constant Maturity
Treasury bond yield rises to 5.50%. Simulation estimates depend on, and will change with, the size
and mix of our actual and projected balance sheet at the time of each simulation. Due to timing
differences between the quarterly valuation of MSRs and the eventual impact of interest rates on
mortgage banking volumes, earnings at risk in any particular quarter could be higher than the
average earnings at risk over the 12-month simulation period, depending on the path of interest
rates and on our hedging strategies for MSRs. See the  Risk Management   Mortgage Banking Interest
Rate and Market Risk  section in this Report for more information.

We use exchange-traded and over-the-counter (OTC) interest rate derivatives to hedge our interest
rate exposures. The notional or contractual amount, credit risk amount and estimated net fair value
of these derivatives as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, are presented in Note 15 (Derivatives) to
Financial Statements in this Report. We use derivatives for asset/liability management in three
main ways:

to convert a major portion of our long-term fixed-rate debt, which we issue to finance the
Company, from fixed-rate payments to floating-rate payments by entering into receive-fixed swaps; 

to convert the cash flows from selected asset and/or liability instruments/portfolios from
fixed-rate payments to floating-rate payments or vice versa; and 

to hedge our mortgage origination pipeline, funded mortgage loans and MSRs using interest rate
swaps, swaptions, futures, forwards and options. 

MORTGAGE BANKING INTEREST RATE AND MARKET RISK  We originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which
subjects us to various risks, including credit, liquidity and interest rate risks. Based on market
conditions and other factors, we reduce credit and liquidity risks by selling or securitizing some
or all of the long-term fixed-rate mortgage loans we originate and most of the ARMs we originate.
On the other hand, we may hold originated ARMs and fixed-rate mortgage loans in our loan portfolio
as an investment for our growing base of core deposits. We determine whether the loans will be held
for investment or held for sale at the time of commitment. We may subsequently change our intent to
hold loans for investment and sell some or all of our ARMs or fixed-rate mortgages as part of our
corporate asset/liability management. We may also acquire and add to our securities available for
sale a portion of the securities issued at the time we securitize mortgages held for sale (MHFS).

Notwithstanding the continued downturn in the housing sector, and the continued lack of liquidity
in the nonconforming secondary markets, our mortgage banking revenue growth

continued to be positive, reflecting the complementary origination and servicing strengths of the
business. The secondary market for agency-conforming mortgages functioned well during the year.

Interest rate and market risk can be substantial in the mortgage business. Changes in interest
rates may potentially reduce total origination and servicing fees, the value of our residential
MSRs measured at fair value, the value of MHFS and the associated income and loss reflected in
mortgage banking noninterest income, the income and expense associated with instruments (economic
hedges) used to hedge changes in the fair value of MSRs and MHFS, and the value of derivative loan
commitments (interest rate  locks ) extended to mortgage applicants.

Interest rates affect the amount and timing of origination and servicing fees because consumer
demand for new mortgages and the level of refinancing activity are sensitive to changes in mortgage
interest rates. Typically, a decline in mortgage interest rates will lead to an increase in
mortgage originations and fees and may also lead to an increase in servicing fee income, depending
on the level of new loans added to the servicing portfolio and prepayments. Given the time it takes
for consumer behavior to fully react to interest rate changes, as well as the time required for
processing a new application, providing the commitment, and securitizing and selling the loan,
interest rate changes will affect origination and servicing fees with a lag. The amount and timing
of the impact on origination and servicing fees will depend on the magnitude, speed and duration of
the change in interest rates.

We elected to measure MHFS at fair value prospectively for new prime MHFS originations for which an
active secondary market and readily available market prices existed to reliably support fair value
pricing models used for these loans. At December 31, 2008, we measured at fair value similar MHFS
acquired from Wachovia. Loan origination fees on these loans are recorded when earned, and related
direct loan origination costs and fees are recognized when incurred. We also elected to measure at
fair value certain of our other interests held related to residential loan sales and
securitizations. We believe that the election for new prime MHFS and other interests held, which
are now hedged with free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) along with our MSRs, reduces
certain timing differences and better matches changes in the value of these assets with changes in
the value of derivatives used as economic hedges for these assets. During 2008 and 2009, in
response to continued secondary market illiquidity, we continued to originate certain prime
non-agency loans to be held for investment for the foreseeable future rather than to be held for
sale.

We initially measure and carry our residential MSRs at fair value, which represent substantially
all of our MSRs. Under this method, the MSRs are recorded at fair value at the time we sell or
securitize the related mortgage loans. The carrying value of MSRs reflects changes in fair value at
the end of each quarter and changes are included in net servicing income, a component of mortgage
banking noninterest income. If the fair value of the MSRs increases, income is recognized; if the
fair value of the MSRs decreases, a loss is recognized.

67 

Table of Contents   

We use a dynamic and sophisticated model to estimate the fair value of our MSRs and periodically
benchmark our estimates to independent appraisals. The valuation of MSRs can be highly subjective
and involve complex judgments by management about matters that are inherently unpredictable.
Changes in interest rates influence a variety of significant assumptions included in the periodic
valuation of MSRs, including prepayment speeds, expected returns and potential risks on the
servicing asset portfolio, the value of escrow balances and other servicing valuation elements.

A decline in interest rates generally increases the propensity for refinancing, reduces the
expected duration of the servicing portfolio and therefore reduces the estimated fair value of
MSRs. This reduction in fair value causes a charge to income, net of any gains on free-standing
derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge MSRs. We may choose not to fully hedge all of the
potential decline in the value of our MSRs resulting from a decline in interest rates because the
potential increase in origination/servicing fees in that scenario provides a partial  natural
business hedge.  An increase in interest rates generally reduces the propensity for refinancing,
extends the expected duration of the servicing portfolio and therefore increases the estimated fair
value of the MSRs. However, an increase in interest rates can also reduce mortgage loan demand and
therefore reduce origination income. In 2009, a $1.5 billion decrease in the fair value of our MSRs
and $6.8 billion of gains on free-standing derivatives used to hedge the MSRs resulted in a net
gain of $5.3 billion. This net gain was largely due to hedge-carry income reflecting the current
low short-term interest rate environment.

The price risk associated with our MSRs is economically hedged with a combination of highly liquid
interest rate forward instruments including mortgage forward contracts, interest rate swaps and
interest rate options. All of the instruments comprising the hedge
are marked to market daily. Because the hedging instruments are
traded in highly liquid markets, their prices are readily observable
and are fully reflected in each quarter s mark to market.
Quarterly MSR hedging results include a combination of directional
gain or loss due to market changes as well as any carry income
generated. If the economic hedge is effective, its overall
directional hedge gain or loss will offset the change in the
valuation of the underlying MSR asset. Consistent with our longstanding approach to hedging interest rate risk in
the mortgage business, the size of the hedge and the particular combination of forward hedging
instruments at any point in time is designed to reduce the volatility of the mortgage business s
earnings over various time frames within a range of mortgage interest
rates. Since market factors, the composition of the mortgage
servicing portfolio and the relationship between the origination and
servicing sides of our mortgage business change continually, the types of
instruments used in our hedging are reviewed daily and rebalanced based on our evaluation of
current market factors and the interest rate risk inherent in our MSRs portfolio. Throughout 2009,
our economic hedging strategy generally used forward mortgage purchase contracts that
were effective at offsetting the impact of interest rates on the value of the MSR asset.

Mortgage forward contracts are designed to pass the full economics of the underlying reference
mortgage securities to the holder of the contract including both the directional gain or loss from
the forward delivery of the reference securities and the corresponding carry income. Carry income
represents the contract s price accretion from the forward delivery price to the current spot price
including both the yield earned on the reference securities and the market implied cost of
financing during the period. The actual amount of carry income earned
on the hedge each quarter will depend on the amount of the underlying
asset that is hedged and the particular instruments comprising the
hedge. The level of carry income is driven by the slope of the yield curve
and other market driven supply and demand factors impacting the specific reference securities. A
steep yield curve generally produces higher carry income

while a flat or inverted yield curve can result in lower or potentially negative carry income. The
level of carry income is also impacted by the type of instrument used. In general, mortgage forward
contracts tend to produce higher carry income than interest rate swap contracts. Carry income is
recognized over the life of the mortgage forward as a component of the contract s mark to market
gain or loss. We expect hedge carry income to remain strong as long as the yield curve remains at
historically steep levels and, in particular, as long as market implied financing costs remain low.

During fourth quarter 2009, mortgage interest rates increased, resulting in a valuation
increase in the MSRs asset due to slower prepayment speed assumptions and the corresponding
extension of the expected life of the MSRs asset, and a directional valuation decline on the hedge
position due to the decrease in the price of the mortgage securities underlying the mortgage
forward purchase contract. However, because the increase in mortgage rates during that quarter was
relatively small, and the yield on our mortgage forward purchase
contracts was relatively high compared with implied financing costs, the carry income component of the hedge valuation change exceeded the directional
loss embedded in that valuation and as a result, the total hedge result was positive even though
the value of the underlying MSR asset increased in the quarter.

Hedging the various sources of interest rate risk in mortgage banking is a complex process that
requires sophisticated modeling and constant monitoring. While we attempt to balance these various
aspects of the mortgage business, there are several potential risks to earnings:

MSRs valuation changes associated with interest rate changes are recorded in earnings immediately
within the accounting period in which those interest rate changes occur, whereas the impact of
those same changes in interest rates on origination and servicing fees occur with a lag and over
time. Thus, the mortgage business could be protected from adverse changes in interest rates over a
period of time on a cumulative basis but still display large variations in income from one
accounting period to the next. 

The degree to which the  natural business hedge  offsets changes in MSRs valuations is imperfect,
varies at different points in the interest rate cycle, and depends not just on the direction of
interest rates but on the pattern of quarterly interest rate changes. 

Origination volumes, the valuation of MSRs and hedging results and associated costs are also
affected by many factors. Such factors include the mix of new business between ARMs and fixed-rate
mortgages, the relationship between short-term and long-term interest rates, the degree of
volatility in interest rates, the relationship between mortgage interest rates and other interest
rate markets, and other interest rate factors. Many of these factors are hard to predict and we may
not be able to directly or perfectly hedge their effect. 

While our hedging activities are designed to balance our mortgage banking interest rate risks,
the financial instruments we use may not perfectly correlate with the values and income being
hedged. For example, the change in the value of ARMs production held for sale from changes in
mortgage interest rates may or may not 

68 

Table of Contents   

be fully offset by Treasury and LIBOR index-based financial instruments used as economic hedges for
such ARMs. Additionally, the hedge-carry income we earn on our economic hedges for the MSRs may not
continue if the spread between short-term and long-term rates decreases. 

The total carrying value of our residential and commercial MSRs was $17.1 billion at December 31,
2009, and $16.2 billion at December 31, 2008. The weighted-average note rate on the owned servicing
portfolio was 5.66% at December 31, 2009, and 5.92% at December 31, 2008. Our total MSRs were 0.91%
of mortgage loans serviced for others at December 31, 2009, compared with 0.87% at December 31,
2008.

As part of our mortgage banking activities, we enter into commitments to fund residential mortgage
loans at specified times in the future. A mortgage loan commitment is an interest rate lock that
binds us to lend funds to a potential borrower at a specified interest rate and within a specified
period of time, generally up to 60 days after inception of the rate lock. These loan commitments
are derivative loan commitments if the loans that will result from the exercise of the commitments
will be held for sale. These derivative loan commitments are recognized at fair value in the
balance sheet with changes in their fair values recorded as part of mortgage banking noninterest
income. The fair value of these commitments include, at inception and during the life of the loan
commitment, the expected net future cash flows related to the associated servicing of the loan as
part of the fair value measurement of derivative loan commitments. Changes subsequent to inception
are based on changes in fair value of the underlying loan resulting from the exercise of the
commitment and changes in the probability that the loan will not fund within the terms of the
commitment, referred to as a fall-out factor. The value of the underlying loan commitment is
affected primarily by changes in interest rates and the passage of time.

Outstanding derivative loan commitments expose us to the risk that the price of the mortgage loans
underlying the commitments might decline due to increases in mortgage interest rates from inception
of the rate lock to the funding of the loan. To minimize this risk, we utilize forwards and
options, Eurodollar futures, and options, and Treasury futures, forwards and options contracts as
economic hedges against the potential decreases in the values of the loans. We expect that these
derivative financial instruments will experience changes in fair value that will either fully or
partially offset the changes in fair value of the derivative loan commitments. However, changes in
investor demand, such as concerns about credit risk, can also cause changes in the spread
relationships between underlying loan value and the derivative financial instruments that cannot be
hedged.

MARKET RISK   TRADING ACTIVITIES  From a market risk perspective, our net income is exposed to
changes in interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and commodity prices and
their implied volatilities. The primary purpose of our trading businesses is to accommodate
customers in the management of their market price risks. Also, we take positions based on market
expectations or to benefit from price differences between financial instruments and markets,

subject to risk limits established and monitored by Corporate ALCO. All securities, foreign
exchange transactions, commodity transactions and derivatives used in our trading businesses are
carried at fair value. The Institutional Risk Committee establishes and monitors counterparty risk
limits. The credit risk amount and estimated net fair value of all customer accommodation
derivatives at December 31, 2009 and 2008, are included in Note 15 (Derivatives) to Financial
Statements in this Report. Open,  at risk  positions for all trading businesses are monitored by
Corporate ALCO.

The standardized approach for monitoring and reporting market risk for the trading activities
consists of value-at-risk (VaR) metrics complemented with factor analysis and stress testing. VaR
measures the worst expected loss over a given time interval and within a given confidence interval.
We measure and report daily VaR at a 99% confidence interval based on actual changes in rates and
prices over the past 250 trading days. The analysis captures all financial instruments that are
considered trading positions. The average one-day VaR throughout 2009 was $62 million, with a lower
bound of $25 million and an upper bound of $130 million. The average VaR for fourth quarter 2009
was $45 million with the decline from the annual average primarily reflecting risk-reduction
strategies.

MARKET RISK   EQUITY MARKETS  We are directly and indirectly affected by changes in the equity
markets. We make and manage direct equity investments in start-up businesses, emerging growth
companies, management buy-outs, acquisitions and corporate recapitalizations. We also invest in
non-affiliated funds that make similar private equity investments. These private equity investments
are made within capital allocations approved by management and the Board of Directors (Board). The
Board s policy is to review business developments, key risks and historical returns for the private
equity investment portfolio at least annually. Management reviews the valuations of these
investments at least quarterly and assesses them for possible OTTI. For nonmarketable investments,
the analysis is based on facts and circumstances of each individual investment and the expectations
for that investment s cash flows and capital needs, the viability of its business model and our
exit strategy. Nonmarketable investments included private equity investments of $3.8 billion and
$3.0 billion accounted for under the cost method at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and
$5.1 billion and $6.4 billion, respectively, accounted for under the equity method. Private equity
investments are subject to OTTI. Principal investments totaled $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Principal investments are carried at fair value with net
unrealized gains and losses reported in noninterest income.

As part of our business to support our customers, we trade public equities, listed/OTC equity
derivatives and convertible bonds. We have risk mandates that govern these activities. We also have
marketable equity securities in the securities available-for-sale portfolio, including securities
relating to our venture capital activities. We manage these investments within capital risk limits
approved by management and the Board and monitored by Corporate ALCO. Gains and losses on

69 

Table of Contents   

these securities are recognized in net income when realized and periodically include OTTI charges.
The fair value and cost of marketable equity securities was $5.6 billion and $4.7 billion at
December 31, 2009, and $6.1 billion and $6.3 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2008.

Changes
in equity market prices may also indirectly affect our net income by affecting (1) the value of
third party assets under management and, hence, fee income, (2) particular borrowers, whose ability
to repay principal and/or interest may be affected by the stock market, or (3) brokerage activity,
related commission income and other business activities. Each business line monitors and manages
these indirect risks.

LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING  The objective of effective liquidity management is to ensure that we can meet
customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals and other cash commitments
efficiently under both normal operating conditions and under unpredictable circumstances of
industry or market stress. To achieve this objective, Corporate ALCO establishes and monitors
liquidity guidelines that require sufficient asset-based liquidity to cover potential funding
requirements and to avoid over-dependence on volatile, less reliable funding markets. We set these
guidelines for both the consolidated balance sheet and for the Parent to ensure that the Parent is
a source of strength for its regulated, deposit-taking banking subsidiaries.

Debt securities in the securities available-for-sale portfolio provide asset liquidity, in addition
to the immediately liquid resources of cash and due from banks and federal funds sold, securities
purchased under resale agreements and other short-term investments. The weighted-average expected
remaining maturity of the debt securities within this portfolio was 5.6 years at December 31, 2009.
Of the $162.3 billion (cost basis) of debt securities in this portfolio at December 31, 2009, $48.1
billion (30%) is expected to mature or be prepaid in 2010 and an additional $25.1 billion (15%) in
2011. Asset liquidity is further enhanced by our ability to sell or securitize loans in secondary
markets and to pledge loans to access secured borrowing facilities through the Federal Home Loan
Banks, the FRB, or the U.S. Treasury. In 2009, we sold mortgage loans of $394 billion. The amount
of mortgage loans and other

consumer loans available to be sold, securitized or pledged was approximately $240 billion at
December 31, 2009.

Core customer deposits have historically provided a sizeable source of relatively stable and
low-cost funds. Average core deposits funded 60.4% and 53.8% of average total assets in 2009 and
2008, respectively.

Additional funding is provided by long-term debt (including trust preferred securities), other
foreign deposits, and short-term borrowings (federal funds purchased, securities sold under
repurchase agreements, commercial paper and other short-term borrowings). Long-term debt averaged
$231.8 billion in 2009 and $102.3 billion in 2008. Short-term borrowings averaged $52.0 billion in
2009 and $65.8 billion in 2008. We reduced short-term borrowings due to the continued liquidation
of previously identified non-strategic and liquidating loan portfolios, soft loan demand and strong
deposit growth.

We anticipate making capital expenditures of approximately $1.1 billion in 2010 for our stores,
relocation and remodeling of our facilities, and routine replacement of furniture, equipment and
servers. We fund expenditures from various sources, including cash flows from operations and
borrowings.

Liquidity is also available through our ability to raise funds in a variety of domestic and
international money and capital markets. We access capital markets for long-term funding through
issuances of registered debt securities, private placements and asset-backed secured funding.
Investors in the long-term capital markets generally will consider, among other factors, a
company s debt rating in making investment decisions. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is rated  Aa2,  by
Moody s Investors Service, and  AA,  by Standard   Poor s (S P) Rating Services. Rating agencies
base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy,
liquidity, asset quality, business mix, and level and quality of earnings. Material changes in
these factors could result in a different debt rating; however, a change in debt rating would not
cause us to violate any of our debt covenants.

Table 30 provides the credit ratings of the Company, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wachovia Bank, N.A.
as of February 26, 2010.

Table 30:  Credit Ratings 

Wells Fargo   Company 

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 

Wachovia Bank, N.A. 

Senior 

Subordinated 

Commercial 

Long-term 

Short-term 

Long-term 

Short-term 

debt 

debt 

paper 

deposits 

borrowings 

deposits 

borrowings 

Moody s

A1  

A2 

P-1 

Aa2    

P-1 

Aa2    

P-1 

S P

AA- 

A 

A-1 

AA     

A-1 

AA     

A-1 

Fitch, Inc.

AA- 

A 

F1 

AA     

F1 

AA     

F1 

DBRS

AA  
       
     AA 
     * 

R-1 
     ** 
       
     AA*** 

R-1 
     *** 
       
     AA*** 

R-1 
     *** 

*low ** middle *** high 

Wells Fargo participated in the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) during 2009.
The TLGP had two components: the Debt Guarantee Program, which provided a temporary guarantee of
newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by eligible entities; and the Transaction Account
Guarantee Program, which provided a temporary unlimited

guarantee of funds in noninterest bearing transaction accounts at FDIC insured institutions. The
Debt Guarantee Program expired on October 31, 2009, and Wells Fargo opted out of the temporary
unlimited guarantee of funds effective December 31, 2009.

70 

Table of Contents   

Parent.  Under SEC rules, the Parent is classified as a  well-known seasoned issuer,  which allows
it to file a registration statement that does not have a limit on issuance capacity.  Well-known
seasoned issuers  generally include those companies with a public float of common equity of at
least $700 million or those companies that have issued at least $1 billion in aggregate principal
amount of non-convertible securities, other than common equity, in the last three years. In June
2009, the Parent filed a registration statement with the SEC for the issuance of senior and
subordinated notes, preferred stock and other securities. This registration statement replaces a
registration statement for the issuance of similar securities that expired in June 2009. The
Parent s ability to issue debt and other securities under this registration statement is limited by
the debt issuance authority granted by the Board. The Parent is currently authorized by the Board
to issue $60 billion in outstanding short-term debt and $170 billion in outstanding long-term debt.

At December 31, 2009, the Parent had outstanding short-term and long-term debt under these
authorities of $10.2 billion and $119.5 billion, respectively. During 2009, the Parent issued a
total of $3.5 billion in registered senior notes guaranteed by the FDIC under the TLGP and an
additional $2.0 billion in non-guaranteed registered senior notes. Effective August 2009, the
Parent established an SEC registered $25 billion medium-term note program (MTN), under which it may
issue senior and subordinated debt securities. In December 2009, the Parent established a $25
billion European medium-term note programme (EMTN), under which it may issue senior and
subordinated debt securities. In addition, the Parent has an
A$5.0 billion Australian medium-term
note programme (AMTN), under which it may issue senior and subordinated debt securities. The EMTN
and AMTN securities are not registered with the SEC and may not be offered in the United States
without applicable exemptions from registration. The Parent has $23.0 billion, $25.0 billion and
A$1.75 billion available for issuance under the MTN, EMTN and AMTN, respectively. The proceeds from
securities issued in 2009 were used for general corporate purposes, and we expect that the proceeds
from securities issued in the future will also be used for general corporate purposes. The Parent
also issues commercial paper from time to time, subject to its short-term debt limit.

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.  Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is authorized by its board of directors to issue $100
billion in outstanding short-term debt and $50 billion in outstanding long-term debt. In December
2007, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. established a $100 billion bank note program under which, subject to
any other debt outstanding under the limits described above, it may issue $50 billion in
outstanding short-term senior notes and $50 billion in long-term senior or subordinated notes.
During 2009, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. issued $14.5 billion in short-term notes. At December 31, 2009,
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. had remaining issuance capacity on the bank note program of $50 billion in
short-term senior notes and $50 billion in long-term senior or subordinated notes. Securities are
issued under this program as private placements in accordance with Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency (OCC) regulations.

Wells Fargo Financial.  In February 2008, Wells Fargo Financial Canada Corporation (WFFCC), an
indirect wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary of the Parent, qualified with the Canadian provincial
securities commissions CAD$7.0 billion in medium-term notes for distribution from time to time in
Canada. At December 31, 2009, CAD$5.5 billion remained available for future issuance. In January
2010, WFFCC filed a new short form base shelf prospectus, replacing the February 2008 base shelf
prospectus and qualifying a total of CAD$7.0 billion of issuance authority. All medium-term notes
issued by WFFCC are unconditionally guaranteed by the Parent.

FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK MEMBERSHIP  We are a member of the Federal Home Loan Banks based in Atlanta,
Dallas, Des Moines and San Francisco (collectively, the FHLBs). Each member of each of the FHLBs is
required to maintain a minimum investment in capital stock of the applicable FHLB. The board of
directors of each FHLB can increase the minimum investment requirements in the event it has
concluded that additional capital is required to allow it to meet its own regulatory capital
requirements. Any increase in the minimum investment requirements outside of specified ranges
requires the approval of the Federal Housing Finance Board. Because the extent of any obligation to
increase our investment in any of the FHLBs depends entirely upon the occurrence of a future event,
potential future payments to the FHLBs are not determinable.

Capital Management 

We have an active program for managing stockholders  equity and regulatory capital and we maintain
a comprehensive process for assessing the Company s overall capital adequacy. We generate capital
internally primarily through the retention of earnings net of dividends, and through the issuance
of common stock to certain benefit plans. Our objective is to maintain capital levels at the
Company and its bank subsidiaries above the regulatory  well-capitalized  thresholds by an amount
commensurate with our risk profile. Our potential sources of stockholders  equity include retained
earnings and issuances

of common and preferred stock. Retained earnings increased $5.0 billion from December 31, 2008,
predominantly from Wells Fargo net income of $12.3 billion, less common and preferred dividends and
accretion of $6.4 billion. On March 6, 2009, the Board reduced the common stock dividend to $0.05
to retain current period earnings and build common equity. During 2009, we issued approximately 958
million shares, with net proceeds of $22.0 billion of common stock, including 882 million shares
($20.5 billion) in two common stock offerings and 76 million shares from time to time during the
period

71 

Table of Contents   

under various employee benefit (including our employee stock option plan) and director plans, as
well as under our dividend reinvestment and direct stock purchase programs.

In October 2008, we issued to the Treasury Department under its CPP 25,000 shares of our Fixed Rate
Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series D without par value, having a liquidation amount per
share equal to $1,000,000, for a total price of $25 billion. We paid cumulative dividends on the
preferred securities at a rate of 5% per year. The preferred securities are generally non-voting.
As part of its purchase of the preferred securities, the Treasury Department also received a
warrant to purchase 110,261,688 shares of our common stock at an initial per share exercise price
of $34.01, subject to customary anti-dilution provisions. The warrant expires 10 years from the
issuance date. Both the preferred securities and warrant were treated as Tier 1 capital.

Wells Fargo was a participant in the FRB s Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) in 2009.
On May 7, 2009, the FRB confirmed that under its adverse stress test scenario the Company s Tier 1
capital exceeded the minimum level required for well-capitalized institutions. In conjunction with
the stress test, the Company agreed with the FRB to generate a $13.7 billion regulatory capital
buffer by November 9, 2009. To fulfill this requirement, on May 13, 2009, we issued 392 million
shares of common stock in an offering to the public valued at $8.6 billion. The Company exceeded
the $13.7 billion capital buffer requirement by $6.0 billion through the common stock offering,
strong revenue performance, realization of deferred tax assets and other internally generated
sources, including core deposit intangible amortization.

On December 23, 2009, we redeemed all of the Series D preferred stock and repaid the Treasury
Department the entire $25 billion investment, plus accrued dividends, pursuant to terms approved by
the U.S. banking regulators and the U.S. Treasury. As a precondition to redeeming the preferred
stock, we issued 490 million shares in an offering to the public valued at $12.2 billion on
December 18, 2009. The Treasury Department continues to hold the warrant issued in conjunction with
the Series D preferred stock in October 2008.

In total, we issued $20.8 billion (gross proceeds) in public common stock offerings in 2009, and
$33 billion since October 2008 when we announced our plans to acquire Wachovia.

From time to time the Board authorizes the Company to repurchase shares of our common stock.
Although we announce when the Board authorizes share repurchases, we typically do not give any
public notice before we repurchase our shares. Various factors determine the amount and timing of
our share repurchases, including our capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue
for acquisitions and employee benefit plans, market conditions (including the trading price of our
stock), and regulatory and legal considerations. The FRB published clarifying supervisory guidance
in first quarter 2009,  SR 09-4 Applying Supervisory Guidance and Regulations on the Payment of
Dividends, Stock Redemptions, and Stock Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies , pertaining to the
FRB s criteria, assessment and approval process for reductions in capital. As with all 19
participants in the SCAP, under this supervisory letter, before repurchasing our com-

mon shares, the Parent must consult with the Federal Reserve staff and demonstrate that its actions
are consistent with the existing supervisory guidance, including demonstrating that its internal
capital assessment process is consistent with the complexity of its activities and risk profile. In
2008, the Board authorized the repurchase of up to 25 million additional shares of our outstanding
common stock. During 2009, we repurchased 8 million shares of our common stock, all from our
employee benefit plans. At December 31, 2009, the total remaining common stock repurchase authority
was approximately 6 million shares.

Historically, our policy has been to repurchase shares under the  safe harbor  conditions of Rule
10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 including a limitation on the daily volume of
repurchases. Rule 10b-18 imposes an additional daily volume limitation on share repurchases during
a pending merger or acquisition in which shares of our stock will constitute some or all of the
consideration. Our management may determine that during a pending stock merger or acquisition when
the safe harbor would otherwise be available, it is in our best interest to repurchase shares in
excess of this additional daily volume limitation. In such cases, we intend to repurchase shares in
compliance with the other conditions of the safe harbor, including the standing daily volume
limitation that applies whether or not there is a pending stock merger or acquisition.

The Company and each of our subsidiary banks are subject to various regulatory capital adequacy
requirements administered by the FRB and the OCC. Risk-based capital (RBC) guidelines establish a
risk-adjusted ratio relating capital to different categories of assets and off-balance sheet
exposures. At December 31, 2009, the Company and each of our subsidiary banks were  well
capitalized  under applicable regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. See Note 25 (Regulatory and
Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information.

Current regulatory RBC rules are based primarily on broad credit-risk considerations and limited
market related risks, but do not take into account other types of risk a financial company may be
exposed to. Our capital adequacy assessment process contemplates a wide range of risks that the
Company is exposed to and also takes into consideration our performance under a variety of economic
conditions, as well as regulatory expectations and guidance, rating agency viewpoints and the view
of capital market participants.

At December 31, 2009, stockholders  equity and Tier 1 common equity levels were higher than prior
to the Wachovia acquisition. During 2009, as regulators and the market focused on the composition
of regulatory capital, the Tier 1 common equity ratio gained significant prominence as a metric of
capital strength. There is no mandated minimum or  well capitalized  standard for Tier 1 common
equity; instead the RBC rules state voting common stockholders  equity should be the dominant
element within Tier 1 common equity. Tier 1 common equity was $65.5 billion at December 31, 2009,
or 6.46% of risk-weighted assets, an increase of $31.1 billion from a year ago. Table 31 provides
the details of the Tier 1 common equity calculation.

72 

Table of Contents   

PRUDENTIAL JOINT VENTURE  As described in the  Contractual Obligations  section in our 2008 Form
10-K, during 2009 we owned a controlling interest in a retail securities brokerage joint venture,
which Wachovia entered into with Prudential Financial, Inc. (Prudential) in 2003. See also Note 1
(Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   Accounting Standards Adopted in 2009) to Financial
Statements in this Report for additional information. In 2009, Prudential s noncontrolling interest
was 23% of the joint venture. On December 31, 2009, we purchased Prudential s noncontrolling
interest for $4.5 billion in cash. We now own 100% of the retail securities brokerage business.

Table 31:  Tier 1 Common Equity  (1)  

(1) 
       
     Tier 1 common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that is used by investors, analysts and
bank regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve in the SCAP, to assess the capital position
of financial services companies. Tier 1 common equity includes total Wells Fargo stockholders 
equity, less preferred equity, goodwill and intangible assets (excluding MSRs), net of related
deferred taxes, adjusted for specified Tier 1 regulatory capital limitations covering deferred
taxes, MSRs, and cumulative other comprehensive income. Management reviews Tier 1 common equity
along with other measures of capital as part of its financial analyses and has included this
non-GAAP financial information, and the corresponding reconciliation to total equity, because of
current interest in such information on the part of market participants. 

(2) 
       
     Under the regulatory guidelines for risk-based capital, on-balance sheet assets and credit
equivalent amounts of derivatives and off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of several broad
risk categories according to the obligor or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of any
collateral. The aggregate dollar amount in each risk category is then multiplied by the risk weight
associated with that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the risk categories are
aggregated for determining total risk-weighted assets. 

Critical Accounting Policies 

Our significant accounting policies (see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to
Financial Statements in this Report) are fundamental to understanding our results of operations and
financial condition, because they require that we use estimates and assumptions that may affect the
value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Six of these policies are critical
because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters
that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be
reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. These policies govern:

the allowance for credit losses; 

purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loans; 

the valuation of residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs); 

the fair valuation of financial instruments; 

pension accounting; and 

income taxes. 

Management has reviewed and approved these critical accounting policies and has discussed these
policies with the Audit and Examination Committee of the Company s Board.

Allowance for Credit Losses 

The allowance for credit losses, which consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve
for unfunded credit commitments, reflects management s judgment of probable credit losses inherent
in the portfolio and unfunded lending commitments at the balance sheet date.

We use a disciplined process and methodology to establish our allowance for credit each quarter.
While our methodology attributes portions of the allowance to specific portfolios as part of our
analytical process, the entire allowance for credit losses is available to absorb credit losses in
the total loan portfolio. Additionally, while the allowance is built by portfolio, it is allocated
by loan type for external reporting purposes.

To determine the total allowance for loan losses, we estimate the reserves needed for each
component of the portfolio, including loans analyzed individually and loans analyzed on a pooled
basis.

The allowance for loan losses consists of amounts applicable to: (i) the consumer portfolio; (ii)
the commercial, CRE and lease financing portfolio (including reserve for unfunded credit
commitments); and (iii) the PCI portfolio.

73 

Table of Contents   

To determine the consumer portfolio component of the allowance, loans are pooled by portfolio and
losses are modeled using historical experience, quantitative and other mathematical techniques over
the loss emergence period. Each business group exercises significant judgment in the determination
of the model type and/or segmentation method that fits the credit risk characteristics of its
portfolio. We use both internally developed and vendor supplied models in this process. We often
use roll rate/net flow models for near-term loss projections, and vintage-based models, behavior
score models, and time series/statistical trend models for longer-term projections. Management must
use judgment in establishing additional input metrics for the modeling processes, such as portfolio
segmentation by sub-product, origination channel, vintage, loss type, geographic, loan to
collateral value, FICO score, and other predictive characteristics.

The models we use to determine the allowance are independently validated and reviewed to ensure
that their theoretical foundation, assumptions, data integrity, computational processes, reporting
practices, and end-user controls are appropriate and properly documented.

We estimate consumer credit losses under multiple economic scenarios to establish a range of
potential outcomes. Management applies judgment to develop its own view of loss probability within
that range, using external and internal parameters with the objective of establishing an allowance
for the losses inherent within these portfolios as of the reporting date.

In addition to the allowance for the pooled consumer portfolios, we develop a separate allowance
for loans that are identified as impaired through a TDR. These loans are excluded from pooled loss
forecasts and a separate reserve is provided under the accounting guidance for loan impairment.

We estimate the component of the allowance for loan losses for the non-impaired commercial and CRE
portfolios through the application of loss factors to loans grouped by their individual credit risk
rating specialists. These ratings reflect the estimated default probability and quality of
underlying collateral. The loss factors used are statistically derived through the observation of
losses incurred for loans within each credit risk rating over a specified period of time. In
addition, we apply a loan equivalent factor, which is also statistically derived, to unfunded loan
commitments and letters of credit by credit risk grade to determine the reserve for unfunded credit
commitments. As appropriate, we adjust or supplement these allowance factors and estimates to
reflect other risks that may be identified from current conditions and developments in selected
portfolios.

The commercial component of the allowance also includes an amount for the estimated impairment in
nonaccrual commercial and CRE loans with a credit exposure of $5 million or greater. Commercial and
CRE loans whose terms have been modified in a TDR are also individually analyzed for estimated
impairment.

PCI loans may require an allowance subsequent to their acquisition. This allowance requirement
generally results from decreases in expected cash flows.

Reflected in all of the components of the allowance for credit losses, including the reserve for
unfunded commit-

ments, is an amount for imprecision or uncertainty, which represents management s judgment of risks
inherent in the processes and assumptions used in establishing the allowance. This imprecision
considers economic environmental factors, modeling assumptions and performance, process risk, and
other subjective factors. No single statistic or measurement determines the adequacy of the
allowance for credit losses.

Changes in the allowance for credit losses and the related provision expense can materially affect
net income. The establishment of the allowance for credit losses relies on a consistent quarterly
process that requires multiple layers of management review and judgment and responds to changes in
economic conditions, customer behavior, and collateral value, among other influences. From time to
time, events or economic factors may affect the loan portfolio, causing management to provide
additional amounts to or release balances from the allowance for credit losses.

Our allowance for loan losses is sensitive to risk ratings assigned to individually rated loans and
economic assumptions and delinquency trends driving statistically modeled reserves. Individual loan
risk ratings are evaluated based on each situation by experienced senior credit officers.
Forecasted losses are modeled using economic scenarios ranging from strong recovery to slow
recovery.

Assuming a one risk grade downgrade throughout our individually rated portfolio, a slow recovery
(adverse) economic scenario for modeled losses and incremental deterioration in our PCI cash flows
could imply an additional reserve requirement of approximately $10 billion.

Assuming a one risk grade upgrade throughout our individually rated portfolio and a strong recovery
economic scenario for modeled losses could imply a reduced reserve requirement of approximately
$3.3 billion.

These sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical scenarios and are not considered probable.
They do not represent management s view of inherent losses in the portfolio as of the balance sheet
date. Because significant judgment is used, it is possible that others performing similar analyses
could reach different conclusions.

See the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management Process  section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance
for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for further discussion of our allowance.

Purchased Credit-Impaired (PCI) Loans 

Loans purchased with evidence of credit deterioration since origination and for which it is
probable that all contractually required payments will not be collected are considered to be credit
impaired. PCI loans represent loans acquired from Wachovia that were deemed to be credit impaired.
Evidence of credit quality deterioration as of the purchase date may include statistics such as
past due and nonaccrual status, recent borrower credit scores and recent LTV percentages. PCI loans
are initially measured at fair value, which includes estimated future credit losses expected to be
incurred over the life of the loan. Accordingly, the associated allowance for credit losses related
to these loans is not carried over at the acquisition date. We estimated the cash flows expected to
be

74 

Table of Contents   

collected at acquisition using our internal credit risk, interest rate risk and prepayment
risk models, which incorporate our best estimate of current key assumptions, such as property
values, default rates, loss severity and prepayment speeds.

Under the accounting guidance for PCI loans, the excess of cash flows expected to be collected over
the estimated fair value is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest
income over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of loans, in situations where there is a
reasonable expectation about the timing and amount of cash flows expected to be collected. The
difference between the contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to be collected
at acquisition, considering the impact of prepayments, is referred to as the nonaccretable
difference.

In addition, subsequent to acquisition, we are required to periodically evaluate our estimate of
cash flows expected to be collected. These evaluations, performed quarterly, require the continued
usage of key assumptions and estimates, similar to the initial estimate of fair value. Given the
current economic environment, we must apply judgment to develop our estimates of cash flows for PCI
loans given the impact of home price and property value changes, changing loss severities and
prepayment speeds. Decreases in the expected cash flows will generally result in a charge to the
provision for credit losses resulting in an increase to the allowance for loan losses. Increases in
the expected cash flows will generally result in an increase in interest income over the remaining
life of the loan, or pool of loans. Disposals of loans, which may include sales of loans to third
parties, receipt of payments in full or part by the borrower, and foreclosure of the collateral,
result in removal of the loan from the PCI loan portfolio at its carrying amount. The amount of
cash flows expected to be collected and, accordingly, the adequacy of the allowance for loan loss
due to certain decreases in expected cash flow, is particularly sensitive to changes in loan credit
quality. The sensitivity of the overall allowance for loan losses, including PCI loans, to a one
risk downgrade is presented in the preceding section,  Critical Accounting Policies   Allowance
for Credit Losses. 

We aggregated loans acquired in the same fiscal quarter into one or more pools, provided that the
loans have common risk characteristics. A pool is then accounted for as a single asset with a
single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. We aggregated all of the
consumer loans and commercial and CRE loans with balances of $3 million or less into pools with
common risk characteristics. We accounted for commercial and CRE loans with balances in excess of
$3 million individually.

PCI loans that were classified as nonperforming loans by Wachovia are no longer classified as
nonperforming because, at acquisition, we believe we will fully collect the new carrying value of
these loans. It is important to note that judgment is required to classify PCI loans as performing,
and is dependent on having a reasonable expectation about the timing and amount of cash flows
expected to be collected, even if the loan is contractually past due.

See the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management Process  section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance
for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for further discussion of PCI loans.

Valuation of Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights 

We recognize as assets the rights to service mortgage loans for others, or mortgage servicing
rights (MSRs), whether we purchase the servicing rights, or the servicing rights result from the
sale or securitization of loans we originate (asset transfers). We also acquire MSRs under
co-issuer agreements that provide for us to service loans that are originated and securitized by
third-party correspondents. We initially measure and carry our MSRs related to residential mortgage
loans (residential MSRs) using the fair value measurement method, under which purchased MSRs and
MSRs from asset transfers are capitalized and carried at fair value.

At the end of each quarter, we determine the fair value of MSRs using a valuation model that
calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income. The model incorporates
assumptions that market participants use in estimating future net servicing income, including
estimates of prepayment speeds (including housing price volatility), discount rate, default rates,
cost to service (including delinquency and foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings, contractual
servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees. The valuation of MSRs is discussed further in
this section and in Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies), Note 8 (Securitizations
and Variable Interest Entities), Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) and Note 16 (Fair Values of
Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report.

To reduce the sensitivity of earnings to interest rate and market value fluctuations, we may use
securities available for sale and free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) to hedge the risk of
changes in the fair value of MSRs, with the resulting gains or losses reflected in income. Changes
in the fair value of the MSRs from changing mortgage interest rates are generally offset by gains
or losses in the fair value of the derivatives depending on the amount of MSRs we hedge and the
particular instruments used to hedge the MSRs. We may choose not to fully hedge MSRs, partly
because origination volume tends to act as a  natural hedge.  For example, as interest rates
decline, servicing values generally decrease and fees from origination volume tend to increase.
Conversely, as interest rates increase, the fair value of the MSRs generally increases, while fees
from origination volume tend to decline. See the  Risk Management   Mortgage Banking Interest Rate
and Market Risk  section in this Report for discussion of the timing of the effect of changes in
mortgage interest rates.

Net servicing income, a component of mortgage banking noninterest income, includes the changes from
period to period in fair value of both our residential MSRs and the free-standing derivatives
(economic hedges) used to hedge our residential MSRs. Changes in the fair value of residential MSRs
from period to period result from (1) changes in the valuation model inputs or assumptions
(principally reflecting changes in discount rates and prepayment speed assumptions, mostly due to
changes in interest rates) and (2) other changes, representing changes due to
collection/realization of expected cash flows.

75 

Table of Contents   

We use a dynamic and sophisticated model to estimate the value of our MSRs. The model is validated
by an independent internal model validation group operating in accordance with Company policies.
Senior management reviews all significant assumptions quarterly. Mortgage loan prepayment speed a
key assumption in the model is the annual rate at which borrowers are forecasted to repay their
mortgage loan principal. The discount rate used to determine the present value of estimated future
net servicing income another key assumption in the model is the required rate of return investors
in the market would expect for an asset with similar risk. To determine the discount rate, we
consider the risk premium for uncertainties from servicing operations (e.g., possible changes in
future servicing costs, ancillary income and earnings on escrow accounts). Both assumptions can,
and generally will, change quarterly as market conditions and interest rates change. For example,
an increase in either the prepayment speed or discount rate assumption results in a decrease in the
fair value of the MSRs, while a decrease in either assumption would result in an increase in the
fair value of the MSRs. In recent years, there have been significant market-driven fluctuations in
loan prepayment speeds and the discount rate. These fluctuations can be rapid and may be
significant in the future. Therefore, estimating prepayment speeds within a range that market
participants would use in determining the fair value of MSRs requires significant management
judgment.

These key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of the fair value of MSRs to an immediate
adverse change in those assumptions are shown in Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest
Entities) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Fair Valuation of Financial Instruments 

We use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain financial instruments
and to determine fair value disclosures. Trading assets, securities available for sale,
derivatives, prime residential MHFS, certain commercial loans held for sale (LHFS), principal
investments and securities sold but not yet purchased (short sale liabilities) are recorded at fair
value on a recurring basis. Additionally, from time to time, we may be required to record at fair
value other assets on a nonrecurring basis, such as certain MHFS and LHFS, loans held for
investment and certain other assets. These nonrecurring fair value adjustments typically involve
application of lower-of-cost-or-market accounting or write-downs of individual assets. Further, we
include in the Notes to Financial Statements in this Report, information about the extent to which
fair value is used to measure assets and liabilities, the valuation methodologies used and its
effect on earnings. Additionally, for financial instruments not recorded at fair value we disclose
the estimate of their fair value.

Fair value represents the price that would be received to sell the financial asset or paid to
transfer the financial liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date.

The accounting provisions for fair value measurements include a three-level hierarchy for
disclosure of assets and liabilities recorded at fair value. The classification of assets

and liabilities within the hierarchy is based on whether the inputs to the valuation methodology
used for measurement are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market-derived or
market-based information obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our
estimates about market data.

Level 1   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for identical instruments traded in active
markets. Level 1 instruments include securities traded on active exchange markets, such as the New
York Stock Exchange, as well as U.S. Treasury and other U.S. government securities that are traded
by dealers or brokers in active OTC markets. 

Level 2   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets,
quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based
valuation techniques, such as matrix pricing, for which all significant assumptions are observable
in the market. Level 2 instruments include securities traded in functioning dealer or broker
markets, plain-vanilla interest rate derivatives and MHFS that are valued based on prices for other
mortgage whole loans with similar characteristics. 

Level 3   Valuation is generated primarily from model-based techniques that use significant
assumptions not observable in the market. These unobservable assumptions reflect our own estimates
of assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation
techniques include use of option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar
techniques. 

When developing fair value measurements, we maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the
use of unobservable inputs. When available, we use quoted prices in active markets to measure fair
value. If quoted prices in active markets are not available, fair value measurement is based upon
models that use primarily market-based or independently sourced market parameters, including
interest rate yield curves, prepayment speeds, option volatilities and currency rates. However, in
certain cases, when market observable inputs for model-based valuation techniques may not be
readily available, we are required to make judgments about assumptions market participants would
use in estimating the fair value of the financial instrument.

The degree of management judgment involved in determining the fair value of a financial instrument
is dependent upon the availability of quoted prices in active markets or observable market
parameters. For financial instruments with quoted market prices or observable market parameters in
active markets, there is minimal subjectivity involved in measuring fair value. When quoted prices
and observable data in active markets are not fully available, management judgment is necessary to
estimate fair value. Changes in the market conditions, such as reduced liquidity in the capital
markets or changes in secondary market activities, may reduce the availability and reliability of
quoted prices or observable data used to determine fair value. When significant adjustments are
required to price quotes or inputs, it may be appropriate to utilize an estimate based primarily on
unobservable inputs. When an active market for a financial instrument does not

76 

Table of Contents   

exist, the use of management estimates that incorporate current market participant expectations of
future cash flows, adjusted for an appropriate risk premium, is acceptable.

In connection with the first quarter 2009 adoption of the new fair value measurement guidance
included in FASB ASC 820,  Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , we developed policies and
procedures to determine when markets for our financial assets and liabilities are inactive if the
level and volume of activity has declined significantly relative to normal conditions. If markets
are determined to be inactive, it may be appropriate to adjust price quotes received. The
methodology we use to adjust the quotes generally involves weighting the price quotes and results
of internal pricing techniques, such as the net present value of future expected cash flows (with
observable inputs, where available) discounted at a rate of return market participants require to
arrive at the fair value. The more active and orderly markets for particular security classes are
determined to be, the more weighting we assign to price quotes. The less active and orderly markets
are determined to be, the less weighting we assign to price quotes.

We may use independent pricing services and brokers to obtain fair values based on quoted prices.
We determine the most appropriate and relevant pricing service for each security class and
generally obtain one quoted price for each security. For certain securities, we may use internal
traders to obtain quoted prices. Quoted prices are subject to our internal price verification
procedures. We validate prices received using a variety of methods, including, but not limited to,
comparison to pricing services, corroboration of pricing by reference to other independent market
data such as secondary broker quotes and relevant benchmark indices, and review of pricing by
Company personnel familiar with market liquidity and other market-related conditions. We believe
the determination of fair value for our securities is consistent with the accounting guidance on
fair value measurements.

Significant judgment may be required to determine whether certain assets measured at fair value are
included in Level 2 or Level 3. When making this judgment, we consider all available information,
including observable market data, indications of market liquidity and orderliness, and our
understanding of the valuation techniques and significant inputs used. For securities in inactive
markets, we use a predetermined percentage to evaluate the impact of fair value adjustments derived
from weighting both external and internal indications of value to determine if the instrument is
classified as Level 2 or Level 3. Otherwise, the classification of Level 2 or Level 3 is based upon
the specific facts and circumstances of each instrument or instrument category and judgments are
made regarding the significance of the Level 3 inputs to the instruments  fair value measurement in
its entirety. If Level 3 inputs are considered significant, the instrument is classified as Level
3.

Our financial assets valued using Level 3 measurements consisted of certain asset-backed
securities, including those collateralized by auto leases or loans and cash reserves, private
collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs), collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), collateralized
loan obligations

(CLOs), auction-rate securities, certain derivative contracts such as credit default swaps related
to CMO, CDO and CLO exposures and certain MHFS and MSRs.

Approximately 22% of total assets ($277.4 billion) at December 31, 2009, and 19% of total assets
($247.5 billion) at December 31, 2008, consisted of financial instruments recorded at fair value on
a recurring basis. The fair value of assets measured using significant Level 3 inputs (before
derivative netting adjustments) represented approximately 19% of these financial instruments (4% of
total assets) at December 31, 2009, and approximately 22% (4% of total assets) at December 31,
2008. The fair value of the remaining assets was measured using valuation methodologies involving
market-based or market-derived information, collectively Level 1 and 2 measurements.

Approximately 2% of total liabilities ($22.8 billion) at December 31, 2009, and 2% ($18.8 billion)
at December 31, 2008, consisted of financial instruments recorded at fair value on a recurring
basis. The fair value of liabilities measured using Level 3 inputs (before derivative netting
adjustments) was $7.9 billion and $9.3 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

See Note 16 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report for a
complete discussion on our use of fair valuation of financial instruments, our related measurement
techniques and its impact to our financial statements.

Pension Accounting 

We account for our defined benefit pension plans using an actuarial model. The funded status of our
pension and postretirement benefit plans is recognized in our balance sheet. In 2008, we began
measuring our plan assets and benefit obligations using a year-end measurement date.

On April 28, 2009, the Board approved amendments to freeze the benefits earned under the Wells
Fargo qualified and supplemental Cash Balance Plans and the Wachovia Corporation Pension Plan, and
to merge the Pension Plan into the qualified Cash Balance Plan. These actions became effective on
July 1, 2009.

We use four key variables to calculate our annual pension cost: size and characteristics of the
employee population, actuarial assumptions, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and
discount rate. We describe below the effect of each of these variables on our pension expense.

SIZE AND CHARACTERISTICS OF THE EMPLOYEE POPULATION 

Pension expense is directly related to the number of employees covered by the plans, and other
factors including salary, age and years of employment. As of July 1, 2009, pension expense will no
longer be dependent on salaries earned and service cost will no longer be recognized for the plans
that were frozen in 2009. In 2009, pension expense for the qualified and unqualified Cash Balance
plans was about $317 million, which includes one-time curtailment gains of $59 million resulting
from the freezing of these plans. In 2010, pension expense for these plans is estimated to be a
credit of approximately $44 million; the decrease in pension expense in 2010 is primarily due to no
longer incurring service cost.

77 

Table of Contents   

ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS  To estimate the projected benefit obligation, actuarial assumptions are
required about factors such as the rates of mortality, turnover, retirement, disability and
compensation increases for our participant population. These demographic assumptions are reviewed
periodically. In general, the range of assumptions is narrow. The compensation increase assumption
does not apply to the plans that were frozen in 2009.

EXPECTED LONG-TERM RATE OF RETURN ON PLAN ASSETS  We determine the expected return on plan assets
each year based on the composition of assets and the expected long-term rate of return on that
portfolio. The expected long-term rate of return assumption is a long-term assumption and is not
anticipated to change significantly from year to year.

To determine if the expected rate of return is reasonable, we consider such factors as (1)
long-term historical return experience for major asset class categories (for example, large cap and
small cap domestic equities, international equities and domestic fixed income), and (2)
forward-looking return expectations for these major asset classes. Our expected rate of return for
2010 is 8.25%, a decrease from 8.75%, the expected rate of return for 2009 and 2008. The decrease
reflects our decision to de-emphasize the use of the Tactical Asset Allocation model. Differences
in each year, if any, between expected and actual returns are included in our net actuarial gain or
loss amount, which is recognized in OCI. We generally amortize any net actuarial gain or loss in
excess of a 5% corridor (as defined in accounting guidance for retirement benefits) in net periodic
pension expense calculations over our estimated average remaining participation period of 13 years.
See Note 19 (Employee Benefits and Other Expenses) to Financial Statements in this Report for
information on funding, changes in the pension benefit obligation, and plan assets (including the
investment categories, asset allocation and the fair value).

If we were to assume a 1% increase/decrease in the expected long-term rate of return, holding the
discount rate and other actuarial assumptions constant, 2010 pension expense would
decrease/increase by approximately $91 million.

DISCOUNT RATE  We use a discount rate to determine the present value of our future benefit
obligations. The discount rate reflects the current rates available on long-term high-quality
fixed-income debt instruments, and is reset annually on the measurement date. To determine the
discount rate, we review, with our independent actuary, spot interest rate yield curves based upon
yields from a broad population of high-quality bonds, adjusted to match the timing and amounts of
the Cash Balance Plan s expected benefit payments. We used a discount rate of 5.75% in 2009 and
6.75% in 2008.

If we were to assume a 1% increase in the discount rate, and keep the expected long-term rate of
return and other actuarial assumptions constant, 2010 pension expense would decrease by
approximately $33 million. If we were to assume a 1% decrease in the discount rate, and keep other
assumptions

constant, 2010 pension expense would increase by approximately $36 million. The decrease in pension
expense due to a 1% increase in discount rate differs slightly from the increase in pension expense
due to a 1% decrease in discount rate due to the impact of the 5% gain/loss corridor.

Income Taxes 

We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the
foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Our income tax expense consists of two components:
current and deferred. Current income tax expense approximates taxes to be paid or refunded for the
current period and includes income tax expense related to our uncertain tax positions. We determine
deferred income taxes using the balance sheet method. Under this method, the net deferred tax asset
or liability is based on the tax effects of the differences between the book and tax bases of
assets and liabilities, and recognized enacted changes in tax rates and laws in the period in which
they occur. Deferred income tax expense results from changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities
between periods. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to management s judgment that
realization is  more likely than not.  Uncertain tax positions that meet the more likely than not
recognition threshold are measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain
tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that management believes has a greater
than 50% likelihood of realization upon settlement. Foreign taxes paid are generally applied as
credits to reduce federal income taxes payable. We account for interest and penalties as a
component of income tax expense.

The income tax laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate are complex and subject to different
interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant government taxing authorities. In establishing a
provision for income tax expense, we must make judgments and interpretations about the application
of these inherently complex tax laws. We must also make estimates about when in the future certain
items will affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions by the government taxing
authorities, both domestic and foreign. Our interpretations may be subjected to review during
examination by taxing authorities and disputes may arise over the respective tax positions. We
attempt to resolve these disputes during the tax examination and audit process and ultimately
through the court systems when applicable.

We monitor relevant tax authorities and revise our estimate of accrued income taxes due to changes
in income tax laws and their interpretation by the courts and regulatory authorities on a quarterly
basis. Revisions of our estimate of accrued income taxes also may result from our own income tax
planning and from the resolution of income tax controversies. Such revisions in our estimates may
be material to our operating results for any given quarter.

See Note 20 (Income Taxes) to Financial Statements in this Report for a further description of our
provision for income taxes and related income tax assets and liabilities.

78 

Table of Contents   

Current Accounting Developments 

The following accounting pronouncements were issued by the FASB, but are not yet effective:

ASU 2010-6,  Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements ; 

ASU 2009-16,  Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets  (FAS 166,  Accounting for Transfers of
Financial Assets   an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140 ); and 

ASU 2009-17,  Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest
Entities  (FAS 167,  Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) ). 

Information about these pronouncements is further described in more detail below.

ASU 2010-6  changes the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements. Companies are now
required to disclose significant transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value
hierarchy, whereas existing rules only require the disclosure of transfers in and out of Level 3.
Additionally, in the rollforward of Level 3 activity, companies should present information on
purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis rather than on a net basis as is
currently allowed. The Update also clarifies that fair value measurement disclosures should be
presented for each class of assets and liabilities. A class is typically a subset of a line item in
the statement of financial position. Companies should also provide information about the valuation
techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and nonrecurring instruments
classified as either Level 2 or Level 3. ASU 2010-6 is effective for us in first quarter 2010 with
prospective application, except for the new requirement related to the Level 3 rollforward. Gross
presentation in the Level 3 rollforward is effective for us in first quarter 2011 with prospective
application. Our adoption of the Update will not affect our consolidated financial results since it
amends only the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements.

ASU 2009-16 (FAS 166)  modifies certain guidance contained in FASB ASC 860,  Transfers and Servicing .
This pronouncement eliminates the concept of QSPEs and provides additional criteria transferors
must use to evaluate transfers of financial assets. To determine if a transfer is to be accounted
for as a sale, the transferor must assess whether it and all of the entities included in its
consolidated financial statements have surrendered control of the assets. A transferor must
consider all arrangements or agreements made or contemplated at the time of transfer before
reaching a conclusion on whether control has been relinquished. The new guidance addresses
situations in which a portion of a financial asset is transferred. In such instances the transfer
can only be accounted for as a sale when the transferred portion is considered to be a
participating interest. The Update also requires that any assets or liabilities retained from a
transfer accounted for as a sale be initially recognized at fair value. This pronouncement is
effective for us as of January 1, 2010, with adoption applied prospectively for transfers that
occur on and after the effective date. 

ASU 2009-17 (FAS 167)  amends several key consolidation provisions related to VIEs, which are
included in FASB ASC 810,  Consolidation . First, the scope of the new guidance includes entities
that are currently designated as QSPEs. Second, companies are to use a different approach to
identify the VIEs for which they are deemed to be the primary beneficiary and are required to
consolidate. Under existing rules, the primary beneficiary is the entity that absorbs the majority
of a VIE s losses and receives the majority of the VIE s returns. The new guidance identifies a
VIE s primary beneficiary as the entity that has the power to direct the VIE s significant
activities, and has an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could be
potentially significant to the VIE. Third, companies will be required to continually reassess
whether they are the primary beneficiary of a VIE. Existing rules only require companies to
reconsider primary beneficiary conclusions when certain triggering events have occurred. The Update
is effective for us as of January 1, 2010, and applies to all existing QSPEs and VIEs, and VIEs
created after the effective date.

We have performed an analysis of these accounting pronouncements with respect to QSPE and VIE
structures currently applicable to us. Application of these new accounting pronouncements will
result in the January 1, 2010, consolidation of certain QSPEs and VIEs that were not included in
our consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2009.
Tables 32 and 33 present the estimated impacts to
our financial statements of those newly consolidated QSPEs and VIE structures.

Implementation of ASU 2009-17 (FAS 167) has been deferred for certain investment funds and
accordingly, will not be consolidated under ASU 2009-17 (FAS 167).

(1) 
       
     Represents certain of our residential mortgage loans that are not guaranteed by GSEs
( nonconforming ). 

(2) 
       
     Represents cumulative effect (after tax) of
adopting ASU 2009-17 (FAS 167) recorded to retained earnings on
January 1, 2010. 

79 

Table of Contents   

(1) 
       
     Includes $1.3 billion of nonaccrual loans, substantially all of which are real estate 1-4
family first mortgage loans. 

We have refined our estimate disclosed in our third quarter 2009 Form 10-Q due largely to the sale
of residential MBS and the proposed amendment to ASU 2009-17 (FAS 167), which defers application to
certain investment funds. The cumulative effect of adopting these statements will be recorded as an
adjustment to retained earnings on January 1, 2010.

Forward-Looking Statements 

This Report contains  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as
 anticipates,   intends,   plans,   seeks,   believes,   estimates,   expects,   projects, 
 outlook,   forecast,   will,   may,   could,   should,   can  and similar references to future
periods. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make
about: future results of the Company; expectations for consumer and commercial credit losses,
life-of-loan losses, and the sufficiency of our credit loss allowance to cover future credit
losses; the merger integration of the Company and Wachovia, including expense savings, merger costs
and revenue synergies; the expected outcome and impact of legal, regulatory and legislative
developments; and the Company s plans, objectives and strategies.

Forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding our
business, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the
future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are
difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the
forward-looking statements. We caution you, therefore, against relying on any of these
forward-looking statements. They are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or
assurances of future performance. While there is no assurance that any list of risks and
uncertainties or risk factors is complete, important factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include the following, without
limitation:

the effect of political and economic conditions and geopolitical events; 

economic conditions that affect the general economy, housing prices, the job market, consumer
confidence and spending habits; 

the level and volatility of the capital markets, interest rates, currency values and other market
indices that affect the value of our assets and liabilities; 

the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to
our debt instruments; 

investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; 

our reputation; 

the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation and legal actions; 

changes in accounting standards, rules and interpretations; 

mergers and acquisitions, and our ability to integrate them; 

various monetary and fiscal policies and regulations of the U.S. and foreign governments; and 

the other factors described in  Risk Factors  below. 

Any forward-looking statement made by us in this Report speaks only as of the date on which it is
made. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time,
and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. We undertake no obligation to publicly update
any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or
otherwise, except as may be required by law.

80 

Table of Contents   

Risk Factors 

An investment in the Company involves risk, including the possibility that the value of the
investment could fall substantially and that dividends or other distributions on the investment
could be reduced or eliminated. We discuss below and elsewhere in this Report, as well as in other
documents we file with the SEC, risk factors that could adversely affect our financial results and
condition and the value of, and return on, an investment in the Company. We refer you to the
Financial Review section and Financial Statements (and related Notes) in this Report for more
information about credit, interest rate, market and litigation risks and to the  Regulation and
Supervision  section of our 2009 Form 10-K for more information about legislative and regulatory
risks. Any factor described below or elsewhere in this Report or in our 2009 Form 10-K could by
itself, or together with other factors, adversely affect our financial results and condition. Refer
to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC in 2010 for material changes to the
discussion of risk factors. There are factors not discussed below or elsewhere in this Report that
could adversely affect our financial results and condition.

RISKS RELATING TO CURRENT ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS 

Our financial results and condition may be adversely affected if home prices continue to fall or
unemployment continues to increase.  Significant declines in home prices over the last two years and
recent increases in unemployment have resulted in higher loan charge-offs and increases in our
allowance for credit losses and related provision expense. The economic environment and related
conditions will directly affect credit performance. For example, if home prices continue to fall or
unemployment continues to rise we would expect to incur higher than normal charge-offs and
provision expense from increases in our allowance for credit losses. These conditions may adversely
affect not only consumer loan performance but also commercial and CRE loans, especially those
business borrowers that rely on the health of industries or properties that may experience
deteriorating economic conditions.

Current financial and credit market conditions may persist or worsen, making it more difficult to
access capital markets on favorable terms.  Financial and credit markets may continue to experience
unprecedented disruption and volatility. These conditions may continue or even worsen, affecting
our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms. We may raise additional capital through
the issuance of common stock, which could dilute existing stockholders, or further reduce or even
eliminate our common stock dividend to preserve capital or in order to raise additional capital.

Bank regulators may require higher capital levels, limiting our ability to pay common stock
dividends or repurchase our common stock.  On December 23, 2009, we repaid the U.S. Treasury s
investment in us under the TARP CPP program. While we are no longer a participant in the TARP CPP
program, federal banking regulators continue to monitor the capital position of banks and bank
holding companies. Although not currently anticipated, our regulators may require us to raise
additional capital or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital, including common stock
dividends and stock repurchases. Issuing additional common stock may dilute existing stockholders.

In addition, the U.S. Treasury continues to hold a warrant to purchase approximately 110.3 million
shares of our common stock at $34.01 per share. If the warrant is exercised, the ownership of
existing stockholders may be diluted.

Compensation restrictions could adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain key employees. 
Following repayment of the U.S. Treasury s TARP CPP investment in December 2009, we are no longer
subject to the compensation restrictions applicable to participants in the TARP CPP program.
However, legislators and regulators may impose compensation restrictions on financial institutions,
which could adversely affect our ability to compete for executive talent.

We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or reimburse investors as a result of breaches in
contractual representations and warranties.  We sell mortgage loans to various parties, including
GSEs, under contractual provisions that include various representations and warranties which
typically cover ownership of the loan, compliance with loan criteria set forth in the applicable
agreement, validity of the lien securing the loan, absence of delinquent taxes or liens against the
property securing the loan, and similar matters. We may be required to repurchase the mortgage
loans with identified defects, indemnify the investor or insurer, or reimburse the investor for
credit loss incurred on the loan (collectively,  repurchase obligations ) in the event of a
material breach of such contractual representations or warranties. In addition, we may negotiate
global settlements in order to resolve repurchase obligations in lieu of repurchasing loans. If
economic conditions and the housing market do not recover or future investor repurchase demand and
our success at appealing repurchase requests differ from past experience, we could continue to have
increased repurchase obligations and increased loss severity on repurchases, requiring material
additions to the repurchase reserve.

For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Reserve
for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  section in this Report.

Legislative and regulatory proposals may restrict or limit our ability to engage in our current
businesses or in businesses that we desire to enter into.  Many legislative and regulatory proposals
directed at the financial services industry are being proposed or are pending in the U.S. Congress
to address perceived weaknesses in the financial system and regulatory oversight thereof that may
have contributed to the financial disruption over the last two years and to provide additional
protection for consumers and investors. These proposals, if adopted, may restrict our ability to
compete in our current businesses or restrict our ability to enter into new businesses that we
otherwise may desire to enter into. In addition, the proposals may limit our revenues in
businesses, impose fees or taxes on us, restrict compensation we may pay to key employees, restrict
acquisition opportunities, and/or intensify the regulatory supervision of us and the financial
services industry. These proposals, if adopted, may have a material adverse effect on our business
operations, income, and/or competitive position.

81 

Table of Contents   

Bankruptcy laws may be changed to allow mortgage  cram-downs,  or court-ordered modifications to
our mortgage loans including the reduction of principal balances.  Under current bankruptcy laws,
courts cannot force a modification of mortgage and home equity loans secured by primary residences.
In response to the current financial crisis, legislation has been proposed to allow mortgage loan
 cram-downs,  which would empower courts to modify the terms of mortgage and home equity loans
including a reduction in the principal amount to reflect lower underlying property values. This
could result in writing down the balance of our mortgage and home equity loans to reflect their
lower loan values. There is also risk that home equity loans in a second lien position (i.e.,
behind a mortgage) could experience significantly higher losses to the extent they become unsecured
as a result of a cram-down. The availability of principal reductions or other modifications to
mortgage loan terms could make bankruptcy a more attractive option for troubled borrowers, leading
to increased bankruptcy filings and accelerated defaults.

RISKS RELATING TO THE WACHOVIA MERGER 

Our financial results and condition could be adversely affected if we fail to realize the expected
benefits of the Wachovia merger or it takes longer than expected to realize those benefits.  The
merger with Wachovia Corporation requires the integration of the businesses of Wachovia and Wells
Fargo. The integration process may result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing
businesses and the loss of customers and their business and deposits. It may also divert management
attention and resources from other operations and limit the Company s ability to pursue other
acquisitions. There is no assurance that we will realize the cost savings and other financial
benefits of the merger when and in the amounts expected.

We may incur losses on loans, securities and other acquired assets of Wachovia that are materially
greater than reflected in our preliminary fair value adjustments.  We accounted for the Wachovia
merger under the purchase method of accounting, recording the acquired assets and liabilities of
Wachovia at fair value based on preliminary purchase accounting adjustments. Under purchase
accounting, we had until one year after the merger date to finalize the fair value adjustments,
meaning we could adjust the preliminary fair value estimates of Wachovia s assets and liabilities
based on new or updated information that provided a better estimate of the fair value at merger
date.

We recorded at fair value all PCI loans acquired in the merger based on the present value of their
expected cash flows. We estimated cash flows using internal credit, interest rate and prepayment
risk models using assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. We may not realize the
estimated cash flows or fair value of these loans. In addition, although the difference between the
pre-merger carrying value of the credit-impaired loans and their expected cash flows   the
 nonaccretable difference    is available to absorb future charge-offs, we may be required to
increase our allowance for credit losses and related provision expense because of subsequent
additional credit deterioration in these loans.

For more information, refer to the  Overview  and  Critical Accounting Policies   Purchased
Credit-Impaired Loans  sections in this Report.

GENERAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS 

Higher charge-offs and worsening credit conditions could require us to increase our allowance for
credit losses through a charge to earnings.  When we loan money or commit to loan money we incur
credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for credit
losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is
based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio (including unfunded credit
commitments). The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial
results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future,
including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers
to repay their loans.

We might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in
excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic
conditions, including falling home prices and higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes
in borrower behavior. As an example, borrowers may be less likely to continue making payments on
their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if
they are still financially able to make the payments.

While we believe that our allowance for credit losses was adequate at December 31, 2009, there is
no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover future credit losses, especially if housing and
employment conditions worsen. We may be required to build reserves in 2010, thus reducing earnings.

For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management Process  and
 Critical Accounting Policies  Allowance for Credit Losses  sections in this Report.

We may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent our loans are concentrated by
loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral.  Our credit
risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated to borrowers engaged in the same
or similar activities or to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected
by economic or market conditions. We experienced the effect of concentration risk in 2008 and 2009
when we incurred greater than expected losses in our Home Equity loan portfolio due to a housing
slowdown and greater than expected deterioration in residential real estate values in many markets,
including the Central Valley California market and several Southern California metropolitan
statistical areas. As California is our largest banking state in terms of loans and deposits,
continued deterioration in real estate values and underlying economic conditions in those markets
or elsewhere in California could result in materially higher credit losses. As a result of the
Wachovia merger, we have increased our exposure to California, as well as to Arizona and Florida,
two states that have also suffered significant declines in home values. Continued deterioration in
housing conditions and real estate values in these states and generally across the country could
result in materially higher credit losses.

For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management Process  section and
Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.

82 

Table of Contents   

Loss of customer deposits and market illiquidity could increase our funding costs.  We rely on
bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans we make. We compete with
banks and other financial services companies for deposits. If our competitors raise the rates they
pay on deposits our funding costs may increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing
deposits or because we lose deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Higher
funding costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. As discussed above, the
integration of Wells Fargo and Wachovia may result in the loss of customer deposits.

We sell most of the mortgage loans we originate in order to reduce our credit risk and provide
funding for additional loans. We rely on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to purchase loans that meet
their conforming loan requirements and on other capital markets investors to purchase loans that do
not meet those requirements referred to as  nonconforming  loans. Since 2007, investor demand for
nonconforming loans has fallen sharply, increasing credit spreads and reducing the liquidity for
those loans. In response to the reduced liquidity in the capital markets, we may retain more
nonconforming loans. When we retain a loan not only do we keep the credit risk of the loan but we
also do not receive any sale proceeds that could be used to generate new loans. Continued lack of
liquidity could limit our ability to fund and thus originate new mortgage loans, reducing the
fees we earn from originating and servicing loans. In addition, we cannot assure that Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac will not materially limit their purchases of conforming loans due to capital
constraints or change their criteria for conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower
eligibility).

Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings.  Our net interest
income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities and other assets we hold less the interest
we pay on our deposits, long-term and short-term debt, and other liabilities. Net interest income
is a measure of both our net interest margin the difference between the yield we earn on our
assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding and the amount
of earning assets we hold. Changes in either our net interest margin or the amount of earning
assets we hold could affect our net interest income and our earnings. Changes in interest rates can
affect our net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend
to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster
than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be
shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest
rates. When interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our
assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up.

The amount and type of earning assets we hold can affect our yield and net interest margin. We hold
earning assets in the form of loans and investment securities, among other assets. If current
economic conditions persist, we may continue to see lower demand for loans by credit worthy
customers, reducing our yield. In addition, we may invest in lower yielding investment securities
for a variety of reasons, including in anticipation that interest rates are likely to increase.

Changes in the slope of the  yield curve  or the spread between short-term and long-term interest
rates could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping,
meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter
in duration

than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, our net interest margin could
decrease as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets.

The interest we earn on our loans may be tied to U.S.-denominated interest rates such as the
federal funds rate while the interest we pay on our debt may be based on international rates such
as LIBOR. If the federal funds rate were to fall without a corresponding decrease in LIBOR, we
might earn less on our loans without any offsetting decrease in our funding costs. This could lower
our net interest margin and our net interest income.

We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios
that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude and speed of interest rate changes
and the slope of the yield curve. We hedge some of that interest rate risk with interest rate
derivatives. We also rely on the  natural hedge  that our mortgage loan originations and servicing
rights can provide.

We do not hedge all of our interest rate risk. There is always the risk that changes in interest
rates could reduce our net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if
actual conditions turn out to be materially different than what we assumed. For example, if
interest rates rise or fall faster than we assumed or the slope of the yield curve changes, we may
incur significant losses on debt securities we hold as investments. To reduce our interest rate
risk, we may rebalance our investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt and take other
strategic actions. We may incur losses when we take such actions.

For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/ Liability Management   Interest Rate
Risk  section in this Report.

Changes in interest rates could also reduce the value of our mortgage servicing rights and
mortgages held for sale, reducing our earnings.  We have a sizeable portfolio of mortgage servicing
rights. A mortgage servicing right (MSR) is the right to service a mortgage loan collect
principal, interest and escrow amounts for a fee. We acquire MSRs when we keep the servicing
rights after we sell or securitize the loans we have originated or when we purchase the servicing
rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. We initially measure and carry our
residential MSRs using the fair value measurement method. Fair value is the present value of
estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including
assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers.

Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. When interest
rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at
a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our MSRs can decrease.
Each quarter we evaluate the fair value of our MSRs, and any decrease in fair value reduces
earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs.

We measure at fair value new prime MHFS for which an active secondary market and readily available
market prices exist. We also measure at fair value certain other interests we hold related to
residential loan sales and securitizations. Similar to other interest-bearing securities, the value
of these MHFS and other interests may be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. For
example, if market interest rates increase relative to the yield on these MHFS and other interests,
their fair value may fall. We may not hedge this risk, and even if we do hedge the risk with
derivatives and other instruments we may still incur significant losses from changes in the value
of these MHFS and other interests or from changes in the value of the hedging instruments.

83 

Table of Contents   

For
more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/
Liability Management   Mortgage
Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  and  Critical Accounting Policies  sections in this Report.

Our mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter.  We earn revenue from fees we
receive for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, the
demand for mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan
originations. Under the same conditions, revenue from our MSRs can increase through increases in
fair value. When rates fall, mortgage originations usually tend to increase and the value of our
MSRs usually tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. Even though they can act
as a  natural hedge,  the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the
negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential MSRs is generally
immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the MSRs relating to the
new loans would generally accrue over time. It is also possible that, because of the recession and
deteriorating housing market, even if interest rates were to fall, mortgage originations may also
fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the MSRs
value caused by the lower rates.

We typically use derivatives and other instruments to hedge our mortgage banking interest rate
risk. We generally do not hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the
risk. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring, and is
not a perfect science. We may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR or
Eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. We could incur
significant losses from our hedging activities. There may be periods where we elect not to use
derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk.

For
more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/
Liability Management   Mortgage
Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  section in this Report.

We could recognize OTTI on securities held in our available-for-sale portfolio if economic and
market conditions do not improve. 

Our securities available-for-sale portfolio had gross unrealized losses of $5.1 billion at December
31, 2009. We analyze securities held in our available-for-sale portfolio for OTTI on a quarterly
basis. The process for determining whether impairment is other than temporary usually requires
difficult, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer and any
collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual
principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions
affecting issuers and the performance of the underlying collateral, we may be required to recognize
OTTI in future periods, thus reducing earnings.

For
more information, refer to the  Balance Sheet Analysis  Securities Available for Sale  and
 Current Accounting Developments  sections and Note 5 (Securities Available for Sale) to Financial
Statements in this Report.

We rely on our systems and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely
affect our operations.  Our businesses are dependent on our ability to process, record and monitor a
large number of complex transactions. If any of our financial, accounting, or other data processing
systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected.
Third parties with which we do business

could also be sources of operational risk to us, including relating to breakdowns or failures of
such parties  own systems. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate one or
more of our businesses, or result in potential liability to clients, reputational damage and
regulatory intervention, any of which could materially adversely affect us.

If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in our possession were
to be mishandled or misused, we could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational
damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if such
information were erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information,
either by fault of our systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information is
intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties.

We may be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or
partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or
telecommunications outages, natural disasters, disease pandemics or other damage to property or
physical assets, or events arising from local or larger scale politics, including terrorist acts.
Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to us.

Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us.  Our risk
management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes and
procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we
are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational
risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk
management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may
exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. If
our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be
materially adversely affected.

Financial difficulties or credit downgrades of mortgage and bond insurers may negatively affect our
servicing and investment portfolios.  Our servicing portfolio includes certain mortgage loans that
carry some level of insurance from one or more mortgage insurance companies. To the extent that any
of these companies experience financial difficulties or credit downgrades, we may be required, as
servicer of the insured loan on behalf of the investor, to obtain replacement coverage with another
provider, possibly at a higher cost than the coverage we would replace. We may be responsible for
some or all of the incremental cost of the new coverage for certain loans depending on the terms of
our servicing agreement with the investor and other circumstances. Similarly, some of the mortgage
loans we hold for investment or for sale carry mortgage insurance. If a mortgage insurer is unable
to meet its credit obligations with respect to an insured loan, we might incur higher credit losses
if replacement coverage is not obtained. We also have investments in municipal bonds that are
guaranteed against loss by bond insurers. The value of these bonds and the payment of principal and
interest on them may be negatively affected by financial difficulties or credit downgrades
experienced by the bond insurers.

For
more information, refer to the  Earnings Performance  
Balance Sheet Analysis   Securities
Available for Sale  and  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management Process  sections in this Report.

84 

Table of Contents   

Our ability to grow revenue and earnings will suffer if we are unable to sell more products to
customers.  Selling more products to our customers  cross-selling  is very important to our
business model and key to our ability to grow revenue and earnings. Many of our competitors also
focus on cross-selling, especially in retail banking and mortgage lending. This can limit our
ability to sell more products to our customers or influence us to sell our products at lower
prices, reducing our net interest income and revenue from our fee-based products. It could also
affect our ability to keep existing customers. New technologies could require us to spend more to
modify or adapt our products to attract and retain customers. Increasing our cross-sell ratio or
the average number of products sold to existing customers may become more challenging and we might
not attain our goal of selling an average of eight products to each customer.

The economic recession could reduce demand for our products and services and lead to lower revenue
and lower earnings.  We earn revenue from the interest and fees we charge on the loans and other
products and services we sell. If the economy worsens and consumer and business spending decreases
and unemployment rises, the demand for those products and services may fall, reducing our interest
and fee income and our earnings. These same conditions may also hurt the ability of our borrowers
to repay their loans, causing us to incur higher credit losses.

Changes in stock market prices could reduce fee income from our brokerage and asset management
businesses.  We earn fee income from managing assets for others and providing brokerage services.
Because investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a fall
in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. Changes in stock market prices
could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from
our brokerage business. As a result of the Wachovia merger, a greater percentage of our revenue
depends on our brokerage services business.

For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/ Liability Management   Market Risk
  Equity Markets  section in this Report.

We may elect to provide capital support to our mutual funds relating to investments in structured
credit products.  The money market mutual funds we advise are allowed to hold investments in
structured investment vehicles (SIVs) in accordance with approved investment parameters for the
respective funds and, therefore, we may have indirect exposure to CDOs. Although we generally are
not responsible for investment losses incurred by our mutual funds, we may from time to time elect
to provide support to a fund even though we are not contractually obligated to do so. For example,
in February 2008, to maintain an investment rating of AAA for certain money market mutual funds, we
elected to enter into a capital support agreement for up to $130 million related to one SIV held by
those funds. If we provide capital support to a mutual fund we advise, and the fund s investment
losses require the capital to be utilized, we may incur losses, thus reducing earnings.

For more information, refer to Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities) to Financial
Statements in this Report.

Our bank customers could take their money out of the bank and put it in alternative investments,
causing us to lose a lower cost source of funding.  Checking and savings account balances and other
forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as
the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. When customers move

money out of bank deposits and into other investments, we may lose a relatively low cost source of
funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income.

Our venture capital business can also be volatile from quarter to quarter.  Certain of our venture
capital businesses are carried under the cost or equity method, and others (e.g., principal
investments) are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. Our
venture capital investments tend to be in technology and other volatile industries so the value of
our public and private equity portfolios may fluctuate widely. Earnings from our venture capital
investments may be volatile and hard to predict and may have a significant effect on our earnings
from period to period. When, and if, we recognize gains may depend on a number of factors,
including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when
these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float, and whether we
are subject to any resale restrictions.

Our venture capital investments could result in significant losses, either OTTI losses for those
investments carried under the cost or equity method or mark-to-market losses for principal
investments. Our assessment for OTTI is based on a number of factors, including the then current
market value of each investment compared with its carrying value. If we determine there is OTTI for
an investment, we write-down the carrying value of the investment, resulting in a charge to
earnings. The amount of this charge could be significant. Further, our principal investing
portfolio could incur significant mark-to-market losses especially if these investments have been
written up because of higher market prices.

For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/ Liability Management   Market Risk
  Equity Markets  section in this Report.

We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for revenue, and federal and state law can limit those
dividends.  Wells Fargo   Company, the parent holding company, is a separate and distinct legal
entity from its subsidiaries. It receives a significant portion of its revenue from dividends from
its subsidiaries. We generally use these dividends, among other things, to pay dividends on our
common and preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. Federal and state laws limit the
amount of dividends that our bank and some of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to us. Also, our
right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary s liquidation or reorganization
is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors.

For more information, refer to the  Regulation and
Supervision   Dividend Restrictions  and   Holding Company Structure  sections in our 2009 Form
10-K and to Notes 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions) and 25 (Regulatory and Agency Capital
Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Changes in accounting policies or accounting standards, and changes in how accounting standards are
interpreted or applied, could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. 
Our accounting policies are fundamental to determining and understanding our financial results and
condition. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the
value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Several of our accounting policies are
critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about
matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts
would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. For a description of

85 

Table of Contents   

these policies, refer to the  Critical Accounting Policies  section in this Report.

From time to time the FASB and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that
govern the preparation of our external financial statements. In addition, accounting standard
setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators
and our outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on
how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and
changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could
materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. We may be required to apply a
new or revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard differently, also
retroactively, in each case resulting in our potentially restating prior period financial
statements in material amounts.

Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates which, if wrong, could
cause unexpected losses in the future.  Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, we are required to use certain
assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit
loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities,
among other items. If assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect,
we may experience material losses.

Certain of our financial instruments, including trading assets and liabilities, available-for-sale
securities, certain loans, MSRs, private equity investments, structured notes and certain
repurchase and resale agreements, among other items, require a determination of their fair value in
order to prepare our financial statements. Where quoted market prices are not available, we may
make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately
rely to some degree on management judgment. Some of these and other assets and liabilities may have
no direct observable price levels, making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on
significant estimation and judgment. In addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in
prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet
items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or
adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings.

Acquisitions could reduce our stock price upon announcement and reduce our earnings if we overpay
or have difficulty integrating them.  We regularly explore opportunities to acquire companies in the
financial services industry. We cannot predict the frequency, size or timing of our acquisitions,
and we typically do not comment publicly on a possible acquisition until we have signed a
definitive agreement. When we do announce an acquisition, our stock price may fall depending on the
size of the acquisition, the purchase price and the potential dilution to existing stockholders. It
is also possible that an acquisition could dilute earnings per share.

We generally must receive federal regulatory approvals before we can acquire a bank or bank holding
company. In deciding whether to approve a proposed acquisition, federal bank regulators will
consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition,
and future prospects including current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence,
experience, and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws and regulations, the
convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including our record of compliance under the
Community Reinvestment Act, and our effectiveness in combating money laundering. Also, we cannot be
certain when or

if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. We might be
required to sell banks, branches and/or business units as a condition to receiving regulatory
approval.

Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause us not to realize expected revenue
increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and other projected benefits
from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition
(run-off), loss of key employees, disruption of our business or the business of the acquired
company, or otherwise harm our ability to retain customers and employees or achieve the anticipated
benefits of the acquisition. Time and resources spent on integration may also impair our ability to
grow our existing businesses. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory
authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected.

Federal and state regulations can restrict our business, and non-compliance could result in
penalties, litigation and damage to our reputation.  Our parent company, our subsidiary banks and
many of our nonbank subsidiaries are heavily regulated at the federal and/or state levels. This
regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking
system as a whole, not necessarily our stockholders. Federal and state regulations can
significantly restrict our businesses, and we could be fined or otherwise penalized if we are found
to be out of compliance.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) limits the types of non-audit services our outside
auditors may provide to us in order to preserve their independence from us. If our auditors were
found not to be  independent  of us under SEC rules, we could be required to engage new auditors
and file new financial statements and audit reports with the SEC. We could be out of compliance
with SEC rules until new financial statements and audit reports were filed, limiting our ability to
raise capital and resulting in other adverse consequences.

Sarbanes-Oxley also requires our management to evaluate the Company s disclosure controls and
procedures and its internal control over financial reporting and requires our auditors to issue a
report on our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to disclose, in our annual
report on Form 10-K, the existence of any  material weaknesses  in our internal control. We cannot
assure that we will not find one or more material weaknesses as of the end of any given year, nor
can we predict the effect on our stock price of disclosure of a material weakness.

A number of states have recently challenged the position of the OCC as the sole regulator of
national banks and their subsidiaries. In addition, legislation has been proposed in Congress to
permit additional state regulation of national banks and their subsidiaries. If these challenges
are successful or if Congress acts to give greater effect to state regulation, the impact on us
could be significant, not only because of the potential additional restrictions on our businesses
but also from having to comply with potentially 50 different sets of regulations.

From time to time Congress considers legislation that could significantly change our regulatory
environment, potentially increasing our cost of doing business, limiting the activities we may
pursue or affecting the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and
other financial institutions.

For more information, refer to the  Regulation and Supervision  section in our 2009 Form 10-K and
to  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in this Report.

86 

Table of Contents   

We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations,
possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations.  We maintain systems and procedures designed
to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, some legal/regulatory
frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the
noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time
systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. For example, we are subject to regulations
issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) that prohibit financial institutions from
participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries
and designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose penalties for inadvertent or
unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. There
may be other negative consequences resulting from a finding of noncompliance, including
restrictions on certain activities. Such a finding may also damage our reputation (see below) and
could restrict the ability of institutional investment managers to invest in our securities.

Negative publicity could damage our reputation.  Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and
capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could
adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and
regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in
any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance,
mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information,
and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that
conduct. Because we conduct most of our businesses under the  Wells Fargo  brand, negative public
opinion about one business could affect our other businesses.

Federal Reserve Board policies can significantly affect business and economic conditions and our
financial results and condition. 
The Federal Reserve Board (FRB) regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its
policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn
on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They also can
materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities and MSRs. Its
policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay
their loans. Changes in FRB policies are beyond our control and can be hard to predict.

Risks Relating to Legal Proceedings  Wells Fargo and some of its subsidiaries are involved in
judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising from our business
activities. Although we believe we have a meritorious defense in all material significant
litigation pending against us, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome. We establish
reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs
can be reasonably estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not
established a reserve. In addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially
higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. The ultimate resolution of a pending legal
proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our
results of operations and financial condition.

For more information, refer to Note 14 (Guarantees
and Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in this Report.

Risks Affecting Our Stock Price  Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of
factors, in addition to those described above, including:

general business and economic conditions; 

recommendations by securities analysts; 

new technology used, or services offered, by our competitors; 

operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; 

news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; 

changes in government regulations; 

natural disasters; and 

geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. 

87 

Table of Contents   

Controls and Procedures 

Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

As required by SEC rules, the Company s management evaluated the effectiveness, as of December 31,
2009, of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures. The Company s chief executive officer
and chief financial officer participated in the evaluation. Based on this evaluation, the Company s
chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that the Company s disclosure
controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2009.

Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) promulgated under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
Company s principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the Company s Board,
management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and includes those policies and
procedures that:

pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of assets of the Company; 

provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and 

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements. 

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. No change occurred during any
quarter in 2009 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Company s internal control over financial reporting. Management s report on internal control over
financial reporting is set forth below, and should be read with these limitations in mind.

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 

The Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control
over financial reporting for the Company. Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, using the criteria set forth by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework . Based on this assessment, management concluded that as of December 31, 2009,
the Company s internal control over financial reporting was effective.

KPMG LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the Company s financial
statements included in this Annual Report, issued an audit report on the Company s internal control
over financial reporting. KPMG s audit report appears on the following page.

88 

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Wells Fargo   Company:

We have audited Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries  (the Company) internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO). The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed
risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances.

We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in  Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  issued by COSO.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of December 31, 2009 and
2008, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in equity and comprehensive
income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, and
our report dated February 26, 2010, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated
financial statements.

San Francisco, California 
February 26, 2010

89 

Table of Contents   

Financial Statements 

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries 

Consolidated Statement of Income 

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 

90 

Table of Contents   

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries 

Consolidated Balance Sheet 

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 

91 

Table of Contents   

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries 

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Comprehensive Income 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

92 

Table of Contents   

93      

Table of Contents   

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries 

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Comprehensive Income    (continued from previous page) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

94 

Table of Contents   

95      

Table of Contents   

Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries 

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. See Note 1 in this Report for noncash investing
and financing activities. 

96 

Table of Contents   

Notes to Financial Statements 

See the Glossary of Acronyms at the end of this Report for terms used throughout the Financial
Statements and related Notes of this Form 10-K and the Codification Cross Reference at the end of
this Report for cross references from accounting standards under the recently adopted Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (Codification) to
pre-Codification accounting standards. 

Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Wells Fargo   Company is a diversified financial services company. We provide banking, insurance,
investments, mortgage banking, investment banking, retail banking, brokerage, and consumer finance
through banking stores, the internet and other distribution channels to consumers, businesses and
institutions in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and in other countries. When we refer to
 Wells Fargo,   the Company,   we,   our  or  us  in this Form 10-K, we mean Wells Fargo   Company
and Subsidiaries (consolidated). Wells Fargo   Company (the Parent) is a financial holding company
and a bank holding company. We also hold a majority interest in a retail brokerage subsidiary and a
real estate investment trust, which has publicly traded preferred stock outstanding.

Our accounting and reporting policies conform with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP) and practices in the financial services industry. To prepare the financial statements in
conformity with GAAP, management must make estimates based on assumptions about future economic and
market conditions (for example, unemployment, market liquidity, real estate prices, etc.) that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
income and expenses during the reporting period and the related disclosures. Although our estimates
contemplate current conditions and how we expect them to change in the future, it is reasonably
possible that in 2010 actual conditions could be worse than anticipated in those estimates, which
could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Management has made
significant estimates in several areas, including the evaluation of other-than-temporary impairment
(OTTI) on investment securities (Note 5), allowance for credit losses and purchased credit-impaired
(PCI) loans (Note 6), valuing residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) (Notes 8 and 9) and
financial instruments (Note 16), pension accounting (Note 19) and

income taxes (Note 20). Actual results could differ from those estimates. Among other effects, such
changes could result in future impairments of investment securities, increases to the allowance for
loan losses, as well as increased future pension expense.

On December 31, 2008, Wells Fargo acquired Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia). Because the
acquisition was completed at the end of 2008, Wachovia s results of operations are included in the
income statement and average balances beginning in 2009. Wachovia s assets and liabilities are
included in the consolidated balance sheet beginning on December 31, 2008. The accounting policies
of Wachovia have been conformed to those of Wells Fargo as described herein.

On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted new accounting guidance on noncontrolling interests on
a retrospective basis for disclosure as required in FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC)
810,  Consolidation . Accordingly, prior period information reflects the adoption. The guidance
requires that noncontrolling interests be reported as a component of total equity. In addition, the
consolidated income statement must disclose amounts attributable to both Wells Fargo interests and
the noncontrolling interests.

Effective July 1, 2009, the FASB established the Codification as the source of authoritative
GAAP for companies to use in the preparation of financial statements. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) rules and interpretive releases are also authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants.
The guidance contained in the Codification supersedes all existing non-SEC accounting and reporting
standards. We adopted the Codification, as required, in third quarter 2009. As a result, references
to accounting literature contained in our financial statement disclosures have been updated to
reflect the new ASC structure. References to superseded authoritative literature are shown
parenthetically below, and cross-references to pre-Codification accounting standards are included
at the end of this Report.

97 

Table of Contents   

Note
1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  (continued)  

Accounting
Standards Adopted in 2009 

In first quarter 2009, we adopted new guidance related to the following Codification topics:

FASB ASC 815-10,  Derivatives and Hedging  (FAS 161,
 Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
  an amendment of FASB Statement
No. 133 ); 

FASB ASC 810-10,  Consolidation  (FAS 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
Statements   an amendment of ARB No. 51 ); 

FASB ASC 805-10,  Business Combinations  (FAS 141R (revised 2007),  Business Combinations ); 

FASB ASC 820-10,  Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures  (FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS
157-4,  Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have
Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly ); 

FASB ASC 320-10,  Investments   Debt and Equity Securities  (FSP FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2,
 Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments ); and 

FASB ASC 260-10,  Earnings Per Share  (FSP Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 03-6-1,
 Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating
Securities ). 

In second quarter 2009, we adopted new guidance related to the following Codification topics:

In third quarter 2009, we adopted new guidance related to the following Codification topic:

FASB ASC 105-10,  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles  (FAS 168,  The FASB Accounting
Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles   a replacement of FASB Statement No. 162 ). 

In fourth quarter 2009, we adopted the following new accounting guidance:

Investments in Certain Entities That Calculate Net Asset Value  
     per Share (or Its Equivalent) ;

ASU 2009-5,  Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value ; and 

FASB ASC 715-20,  Compensation   Retirement Benefits  (FSP FAS 132(R)-1,  Employers 
Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets ). 

Information about these pronouncements is described in more detail below.

FASB ASC 815-10 (FAS 161)  changes the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and
hedging activities. It requires enhanced disclosures about how and why an entity uses derivatives,
how derivatives and related hedged items are accounted for, and how derivatives and hedged items
affect an entity s financial position, performance and cash flows. We adopted this pronouncement
for first quarter 2009 reporting. See Note 15 in this Report for complete disclosures on derivatives and hedging
activities. This standard does not affect our consolidated financial statements since it amends
only the disclosure requirements for derivative instruments and hedged items.

FASB ASC 810-10 (FAS 160)  requires that noncontrolling interests (previously referred to as
minority interests) be reported as a component of equity in the balance sheet. Prior to our
adoption of this standard, noncontrolling interests were classified outside of equity. This new
guidance also changes the way a noncontrolling interest is presented in the income statement such
that a parent s consolidated income statement includes amounts attributable to both the parent s
interest and the noncontrolling interest. When a subsidiary is deconsolidated, a parent is required
to recognize a gain or loss with any remaining interest initially recorded at fair value. Other
changes in ownership interest where the parent continues to have a majority ownership interest in
the subsidiary are accounted for as equity transactions. This new guidance was effective on January
1, 2009, with prospective application to all noncontrolling interests including those that arose
prior to the adoption. Retrospective adoption was required for disclosure of noncontrolling
interests held as of the adoption date.

During 2009, we held a controlling interest in a joint venture with Prudential Financial, Inc.
(Prudential). On January 1, 2009, we reclassified Prudential s noncontrolling interest to equity.
Under the terms of the original agreement under which the joint venture was established between
Wachovia and Prudential, each party had certain rights such that changes in our ownership interest
could occur. On December 4, 2008, Prudential publicly announced its intention to exercise its
option to put its noncontrolling interest to us at the end of the lookback period, as defined
(January 1, 2010). As a result of the issuance of new accounting guidance for noncon-trolling
interests, related interpretive guidance, and Prudential s stated intention, on January 1, 2009, we
increased the carrying value of Prudential s noncontrolling interest in the joint venture to the
estimated maximum redemption amount, with the offset recorded to additional paid-in capital. On
December 31, 2009, we purchased Prudential s noncontrolling interest for $4.5 billion in cash. We
now own 100% of the retail securities brokerage business in the joint venture.

FASB ASC 805-10 (FAS 141R)  requires an acquirer in a business combination to recognize the assets
acquired (including loan receivables), the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in
the acquiree at the acquisition date, at their fair values as of that date, with limited
exceptions. The acquirer is not permitted to recognize a separate valuation

98 

Table of Contents   

allowance as of the acquisition date for loans and other assets acquired in a business combination.
The revised statement requires acquisition-related costs to be expensed separately from the
acquisition. It also requires restructuring costs that the acquirer expected but was not obligated
to incur, to be expensed separately from the business combination. FASB ASC 805-10 was applicable
prospectively to business combinations completed on or after January 1, 2009.

FASB ASC 820-10 (FSP FAS 157-4)  addresses measuring fair value in situations where markets are
inactive and transactions are not orderly. The guidance acknowledges that in these circumstances
quoted prices may not be determinative of fair value; however, even if there has been a significant
decrease in the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability and regardless of the
valuation technique(s) used, the objective of a fair value measurement has not changed. Prior to
issuance of this pronouncement, many companies, including Wells Fargo, interpreted accounting
guidance on fair value measurements to emphasize that fair value must be measured based on the most
recently available quoted market prices, even for markets that have experienced a significant
decline in the volume and level of activity relative to normal conditions and therefore could have
increased frequency of transactions that are not orderly. Under the provisions of this
pronouncement, price quotes for assets or liabilities in inactive markets may require adjustment
due to uncertainty as to whether the underlying transactions are orderly.

For inactive markets, there is little information, if any, to evaluate if individual
transactions are orderly. Accordingly, we are required to estimate, based upon all available facts
and circumstances, the degree to which orderly transactions are occurring. The Fair Value
Measurements and Disclosures topic in the Codification does not prescribe a specific method for
adjusting transaction or quoted prices; however, it does provide guidance for determining how much
weight to give transaction or quoted prices. Price quotes based upon transactions that are not
orderly are not considered to be determinative of fair value and should be given little, if any,
weight in measuring fair value. Price quotes based upon transactions that are orderly shall be
considered in determining fair value, with the weight given based upon the facts and circumstances.
If sufficient information is not available to determine if price quotes are based upon orderly
transactions, less weight should be given to the price quote relative to other transactions that
are known to be orderly.

The new measurement provisions of FASB ASC 820-10 were effective for second quarter 2009;
however, as permitted under the pronouncement, we early adopted in first quarter 2009. Our adoption
of this pronouncement resulted in an increase in the valuation of securities available for sale in
first quarter 2009 of $4.5 billion ($2.8 billion after tax), which was included in other
comprehensive income (OCI), and trading assets of $18 million, which was reflected in earnings. See
Note 5 for more information.

FASB ASC 320-10 (FSP FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2)  states that an OTTI write-down of debt securities,
where fair value is below amortized cost, is triggered in circumstances where (1) an entity has the
intent to sell a security, (2) it is more likely than not that the entity will be required to sell
the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, or (3) the entity does not expect to
recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. If an entity intends to sell a security or
if it is more likely than not the entity will be required to sell the security before recovery, an
OTTI write-down is recognized in earnings equal to the entire difference between the security s
amortized cost basis and its fair value. For debt securities that are considered to be
other-than-temporarily impaired that an entity does not intend to sell or it is more likely than
not that it will not be required to sell before recovery, the OTTI write-down is separated into an
amount representing the credit loss, which is recognized in earnings, and the amount related to all
other factors, which is recognized in OCI. The new accounting prescribed for recording OTTI on debt
securities was effective for second quarter 2009; however, as permitted under the pronouncement, we
early adopted on January 1, 2009, and increased the beginning balance of retained earnings by $85
million ($53 million after tax) with a corresponding adjustment to cumulative OCI for OTTI recorded
in earnings in previous periods on securities in our portfolio at January 1, 2009, that would not
have been required had this accounting guidance been effective for those periods. Additionally, the
new accounting prescribed for recording OTTI on debt securities increased net income by $843
million (after tax) and diluted earnings per share by $0.18 in 2009.

FASB ASC 260-10 (FSP EITF 03-6-1)  requires that unvested share-based payment awards that have
nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents be treated as participating securities
and, therefore, included in the computation of earnings per share under the two-class method
described in the Earnings per Share topic of the Codification. This pronouncement was effective on
January 1, 2009, with retrospective adoption required. Our adoption of this standard did not have a
material effect on our consolidated financial statements.

FASB ASC 855-10 (FAS 165)  describes two types of subsequent events that previously were addressed
in the auditing literature, one that requires post-period end adjustment to the financial
statements being issued, and one that requires footnote disclosure only. The requirements for
disclosing subsequent events were effective in second quarter 2009 with prospective application.
Our adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial
statements.

99 

Table of Contents   

Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   (continued) 

FASB ASC 825-10 (FSP FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1)  states that entities must disclose the fair value of
financial instruments in interim reporting periods as well as in annual financial statements.
Entities must also disclose the methods and assumptions used to estimate fair value as well as any
changes in methods and assumptions that occurred during the reporting period. We adopted this
pronouncement in second quarter 2009. See Note 16 in this Report for additional information. Because the new
provisions in FASB ASC 825-10 amend only the disclosure requirements related to the fair value of
financial instruments, our adoption of this pronouncement did not affect our consolidated financial
statements.

ASU 2009-12  provides guidance for determining the fair value of certain alternative investments,
which include hedge funds, private equity funds, and real estate funds. When alternative
investments do not have readily determinable fair values, companies are permitted to use unadjusted
net asset values or an equivalent measure to estimate fair value. This provision is only allowable
for investments in entities that calculate net asset value (NAV) per share or its equivalent in
accordance with accounting guidance for investment companies. This Update also requires a company
to consider its ability to redeem an investment at NAV when determining the appropriate
classification of the related fair value measurement within the fair value hierarchy. ASU 2009-12
was effective for us in fourth quarter 2009 with prospective application. Our adoption of this new
guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Note 16 in this Report for
disclosures related to certain alternative investments.

ASU 2009-5  describes the valuation techniques companies should use to measure the fair value of
liabilities for which there is limited observable market data. If a quoted price in an active
market is not available for an identical liability, an entity should use one of the following
approaches: (1) the quoted price of the identical liability when traded as an asset, (2) quoted
prices for similar liabilities or similar liabilities when traded as an asset, or (3) another
valuation technique that is consistent with the principles of FASB ASC 820,  Fair Value Measurements
and Disclosures . When measuring the fair value of liabilities, this Update reiterates that
companies should apply valuation techniques that maximize the use of relevant observable inputs,
which is consistent with existing accounting provisions for fair value measurement. In addition,
this Update clarifies when an entity should adjust quoted prices of identical or similar assets
that are used to estimate the fair value of liabilities. For example, an entity should not include
separate adjustments for contractual restrictions that prevent the transfer of the liability
because the restriction would be factored into other inputs used in the fair value measurement of
the liability. However, separate adjustments are needed in situations where the unit of account for
the asset is not the same as for the liability. This guidance was effective for us in fourth
quarter 2009 with adoption applied prospectively. Our adoption of this standard did not have a
material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

FASB ASC 715-20 (FSP FAS 132 (R)-1)  requires new disclosures that are applicable to the plan assets
of our Cash Balance Plan and other postretirement benefit plans. The objectives of the new
disclosures are to provide an understanding of how investment allocation decisions are made, the
major categories of plan assets, the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure fair value,
the effect of fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs on the changes in plan
assets and significant concentrations of risk within plan assets. We adopted this pronouncement
prospectively for year-end 2009 reporting. The guidance does not affect the results of our
consolidated financial statements since it only amends the disclosure requirements for
postretirement benefits.

Consolidation 

Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Parent and our majority-owned
subsidiaries and variable interest entities (VIEs) (defined below) in which we are the primary
beneficiary. Significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. If
we own at least 20% of an entity, we generally account for the investment using the equity method.
If we own less than 20% of an entity, we generally carry the investment at cost, except marketable
equity securities, which we carry at fair value with changes in fair value included in OCI.
Investments accounted for under the equity or cost method are included in other assets.

We
are a variable interest holder in certain special-purpose entities
(SPEs) in which equity
investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or where the entity
does not have enough equity at risk to finance its activities without additional subordinated
financial support from other parties (referred to as VIEs). Our variable interest arises from
contractual, ownership or other monetary interests in the entity, which change with fluctuations in
the entity s NAV. We consolidate a VIE if we are the primary beneficiary, defined
as the entity that will absorb a majority of the entity s expected losses, receive a majority of
the entity s expected residual returns, or both.

Trading Assets 

Trading assets are primarily securities, including corporate debt, U.S. government agency
obligations and other securities that we acquire for short-term appreciation or other trading
purposes, and the fair value of derivatives held for customer accommodation purposes or proprietary
trading. Interest-only strips and other retained interests in securitizations that can be
contractually prepaid or otherwise settled in a way that the holder would not recover substantially
all of its recorded investment are classified as trading assets. Trading assets are carried at fair
value, with realized and unrealized gains and losses recorded in noninterest income.

100 

Table of Contents   

Securities 

SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE  Debt securities that we might not hold until maturity and marketable
equity securities are classified as securities available for sale and reported at fair value.
Unrealized gains and losses, after applicable taxes, are reported in cumulative OCI. Fair value
measurement is based upon quoted prices in active markets, if available. If quoted prices in active
markets are not available, fair values are measured using independent pricing models or other
model-based valuation techniques such as the present value of future cash flows, adjusted for the
security s credit rating, prepayment assumptions and other factors such as credit loss assumptions
and market liquidity. See Note 16 in this Report for more information on fair value measurement of
our securities.

We conduct OTTI analysis on a quarterly basis or more often if a potential loss-triggering
event occurs. The initial indicator of OTTI for both debt and equity securities is a decline in
market value below the amount recorded for an investment and the severity and duration of the
decline.

For a debt security for which there has been a decline in the fair value below amortized cost
basis, we recognize OTTI if we (1) have the intent to sell the security, (2) it is more likely than
not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, or
(3) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security.

Estimating recovery of the amortized cost basis of a debt security is based upon an assessment
of the cash flows expected to be collected. If the present value of the cash flows expected to be
collected is less than amortized cost, OTTI is considered to have occurred. In performing an
assessment of the cash flows expected to be collected, we consider all relevant information
including:

the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than the amortized
cost basis; 

the historical and implied volatility of the fair value of the security; 

the cause of the price decline such as the general level of interest rates or adverse
conditions specifically related to the security, an industry or a geographic area; 

the issuer s financial condition, near-term prospects and ability to service the debt; 

the payment structure of the debt security and the likelihood of the issuer being able to
make payments that increase in the future; 

for asset-backed securities, the credit performance of the underlying collateral, including
delinquency rates, level of non-performing assets, cumulative losses to date, collateral value
and the remaining credit enhancement compared with expected credit losses; 

any change in rating agencies  credit ratings at evaluation date from acquisition date and
any likely imminent action; 

independent analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings and other independent market
data; and 

recoveries or additional declines in fair value subsequent to the balance sheet date. 

If we intend to sell the security, or if it is more likely than not we will be required to
sell the security before recovery, an OTTI write-down is recognized in earnings equal to the entire
difference between the amortized cost basis and fair value of the security. For debt securities
that are considered other-than-temporarily impaired that we do not intend to sell or it is more
likely than not that we will not be required to sell before recovery, the OTTI write-down is
separated into an amount representing the credit loss, which is recognized in earnings, and the
amount related to all other factors, which is recognized in OCI. The measurement of the credit loss
component is equal to the difference between the debt security s cost basis and the present value
of its expected future cash flows discounted at the security s effective yield.

We hold investments in perpetual preferred securities (PPS) that are structured in equity
form, but have many of the characteristics of debt instruments, including periodic cash flows in
the form of dividends, call features, ratings that are similar to debt securities and pricing like
long-term callable bonds.

Because of the hybrid nature of these securities, we evaluate PPS for OTTI using a model
similar to the model we use for debt securities as described above. Among the factors we consider
in our evaluation of PPS are whether there is any evidence of deterioration in the credit of the
issuer as indicated by a decline in cash flows or a rating agency downgrade to below investment
grade and the estimated recovery period. Additionally, in determining if there was evidence of
credit deterioration, we evaluate: (1) the severity of decline in market value below cost, (2) the
period of time for which the decline in fair value has existed, and (3) the financial condition and
near-term prospects of the issuer, including any specific events which may influence the operations
of the issuer. We consider PPS to be other-than-temporarily impaired if cash flows expected to be
collected are insufficient to recover our investment or if we no longer believe the security will
recover within the estimated recovery period. None of our investments in PPS that have not been
impaired have been downgraded below investment grade subsequent to purchase, and we believe that
there are no factors to suggest that we will not fully realize our investment in these instruments
over a reasonable recovery period. OTTI write-downs of PPS are recognized in earnings equal to the
difference between the cost basis and fair value of the security.

For marketable equity securities other than PPS, OTTI evaluations focus on whether evidence
exists that supports recovery of the unrealized loss within a timeframe consistent with temporary
impairment. This evaluation considers the severity of and length of time fair value is below cost,
our intent and ability to hold the security until forecasted recovery of the fair value of the
security, and the investee s financial condition, capital strength, and near-term prospects.

101 

Table of Contents   

Note
1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  (continued)  

The securities portfolio is an integral part of our asset/liability management process. We
manage these investments to provide liquidity, manage interest rate risk and maximize portfolio
yield within capital risk limits approved by management and the Board of Directors and monitored by
the Corporate Asset/Liability Management Committee (Corporate ALCO). We recognize realized gains
and losses on the sale of these securities in noninterest income using the specific identification
method.

Unamortized premiums and discounts are recognized in interest income over the contractual life
of the security using the interest method. As principal repayments are received on securities
(i.e., primarily mortgage-backed securities (MBS)) a pro-rata portion of the unamortized premium or
discount is recognized in interest income.

NONMARKETABLE EQUITY SECURITIES  Nonmarketable equity securities include venture capital equity
securities that are not publicly traded and securities acquired for various purposes, such as to
meet regulatory requirements (for example, Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank stock).
These securities are accounted for under the cost or equity method or are carried at fair value and
are included in other assets. We review those assets accounted for under the cost or equity method
at least quarterly for possible OTTI. Our review typically
includes an analysis of the facts and circumstances of each investment, the expectations for the
investment s cash flows and capital needs, the viability of its business model and our exit
strategy. We reduce the asset value when we consider declines in value to be other than temporary.
We recognize the estimated loss as a loss from equity investments in noninterest income.

Nonmarketable
equity securities held by investment company subsidiaries that fall within the scope of the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Investment Company Audit Guide are carried at fair value
(principal investments). An investment company is a separate legal
entity that pools shareholders  funds and has a business purpose
of investing in multiple substantive investments for current income,
capital appreciation, or both, with investment plans that include
exit strategies. Principal investments, including certain public equity and non-public
securities and certain investments in private equity funds, are recorded at fair value with
realized and unrealized gains and losses included in gains and losses on equity investments in the
income statement, and are included in other assets in the balance sheet. Public equity investments
are valued using quoted market prices and discounts are only applied when there are trading
restrictions that are an attribute of the investment.

Private direct investments are valued using metrics such as security prices of comparable
public companies, acquisition prices for similar companies and original investment purchase price
multiples, while also incorporating a portfolio company s financial performance and specific
factors. For certain fund investments, where the best estimates of fair value were primarily
determined based upon fund sponsor data, we use the NAV provided by the fund sponsor as a practical
expedient to measure fair value. In some cases, such NAVs require adjustments based on certain
unobservable inputs. In situations where a portion of an investment in a non-public security or
fund is sold, we recognize a realized gain or loss on the portion sold and an unrealized gain or
loss on the portion retained.

Securities Purchased and Sold Agreements 

Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under repurchase agreements are
generally accounted for as collateralized financing transactions and are recorded at the
acquisition or sale price plus accrued interest. It is our policy to take possession of securities
purchased under resale agreements, which are primarily U.S. Government and Government agency
securities. We monitor the market value of securities purchased and sold, and obtain collateral
from or return it to counterparties when appropriate.

Mortgages Held for Sale 

Mortgages held for sale (MHFS) include commercial and residential mortgages originated for sale and
securitization in the secondary market, which is our principal market, or for sale as whole loans.
We elected the fair value option for our new prime residential MHFS
portfolio (see Note 16 in this Report).
Nonprime residential and commercial MHFS continue to be held at the lower of cost or market value,
and are valued on an aggregate portfolio basis.

Gains and losses on nonprime loan sales (sales proceeds minus carrying value) are recorded in
noninterest income. Direct loan origination costs and fees are deferred at origination of the loans
and are recognized in mortgage banking noninterest income upon sale of the loan.

Our lines of business are authorized to originate held-for-investment loans that meet or
exceed established loan product profitability criteria, including minimum positive net interest
margin spreads in excess of funding costs. When a determination is made at the time of commitment
to originate loans as held for investment, it is our intent to hold these loans to maturity or for
the  foreseeable future,  subject to periodic review under our corporate asset/liability management
process. In determining the  foreseeable future  for these loans, management considers (1) the
current economic environment and market conditions, (2) our business strategy and current business
plans, (3) the nature and type of the loan receivable, including its expected life, and (4) our
current financial condition and liquidity demands. Consistent with our core banking business of
managing the spread between the yield on our assets and the cost of our funds, loans are
periodically reevaluated to determine if our minimum net interest margin spreads continue to meet
our profitability objectives. If subsequent changes in interest rates significantly impact the
ongoing profitability of certain loan products, we may subsequently change our intent to hold these
loans and we would take actions to sell such loans in response to the Corporate ALCO directives to
reposition our balance sheet because of the changes in interest rates. Such Corporate ALCO
directives identify both the type of loans (for example 3/1, 5/1, 10/1 and relationship
adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs), as well as specific fixed-rate loans) to be sold and the
weighted-average coupon rate of such loans no longer meeting our ongoing investment criteria. Upon
the issuance of such directives, we immediately transfer these loans to the MHFS portfolio at the
lower of cost or market value.

102 

Table of Contents   

Loans Held for Sale 

Loans held for sale (LHFS) are carried at the lower of cost or market value (LOCOM) or at fair
value for certain portfolios that we intend to hold for trading purposes, and are generally valued
on an aggregate portfolio basis. For loans carried at LOCOM, gains and losses on loan sales (sales
proceeds minus carrying value) are recorded in noninterest income, and direct loan origination
costs and fees are deferred at origination of the loan and are recognized in noninterest income
upon sale of the loan. The fair value of LHFS is based on what secondary markets are currently
offering for portfolios with similar characteristics.

Loans 

Loans are reported at their outstanding principal balances net of any unearned income, charge-offs,
unamortized deferred fees and costs on originated loans and premiums or discounts on purchased
loans, except for certain PCI loans which are recorded at fair value on their purchase date. See
the  Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans  section in this Note for our accounting policy for PCI loans.
Unearned income, deferred fees and costs, and discounts and premiums are amortized to interest
income over the contractual life of the loan using the interest method.

We offer a portfolio product known as relationship ARMs that provides interest rate reductions
to reward eligible banking customers who have an existing relationship or establish a new
relationship with Wells Fargo. Accordingly, this product offering is generally underwritten to
certain Company guidelines rather than secondary market standards and is typically originated for
investment. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had $12.5 billion and $15.6 billion, respectively, of
relationship ARMs held for investment. Originations, net of collections and proceeds from the sale
of these loans are reflected as investing cash flows consistent with their original classification.

Loans also include direct financing leases that are recorded at the aggregate of minimum lease
payments receivable plus the estimated residual value of the leased property, less unearned income.
Leveraged leases, which are a form of direct financing leases, are recorded net of related
nonrecourse debt. Leasing income is recognized as a constant percentage of outstanding lease
financing balances over the lease terms.

Loan commitment fees are generally deferred and amortized into noninterest income on a
straight-line basis over the commitment period.

NONACCRUAL LOANS  We generally place loans on nonaccrual status when:

the full and timely collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain; 

they are 90 days (120 days with respect to real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien
mortgages and auto loans) past due for interest or principal (unless both well-secured and in
the process of collection); or 

part of the principal balance has been charged off and no restructuring has occurred. 

PCI loans are written down at acquisition to an amount estimated to be collectible. Accordingly, such loans are no longer classified as nonaccrual even
though they may be contractually past due, because we expect to fully collect the new carrying
values of such loans (that is, the new cost basis arising out of purchase accounting). 

Generally, consumer loans not secured by real estate or autos are placed on nonaccrual status
only when part of the principal has been charged off. These loans are charged off or charged down
to the net realizable value of the collateral when deemed uncollectible, due to bankruptcy or other
factors, or when they reach a defined number of days past due based on loan product, industry
practice, country, terms and other factors.

When we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse the accrued unpaid interest receivable
against interest income and account for the loan on the cash or cost recovery method, until it
qualifies for return to accrual status. Generally, we return a loan to accrual status when (a) all
delinquent interest and principal become current under the terms of the loan agreement or (b) the
loan is both well-secured and in the process of collection and collectibility is no longer
doubtful.

Loan Charge-Off Policies 

For commercial loans, we generally fully or partially charge down to the fair value of collateral
securing the asset when:

management judges the asset to be uncollectible; 

repayment is deemed to be protracted beyond reasonable time frames; 

the asset has been classified as a loss by either our internal loan review process or
external examiners; 

the customer has filed bankruptcy and the loss becomes evident owing to a lack of assets; or 

the loan is 180 days past due unless both well secured and in the process of collection. 

For consumer loans, our charge-off policies are as follows: 

1-4 FAMILY FIRST AND JUNIOR LIEN MORTGAGES  We generally charge down to the net realizable value
when the loan is 180 days past due.

AUTO LOANS  We generally fully or partially charge down to the net realizable value when the loan is
120 days past due.

UNSECURED LOANS (CLOSED END)  We generally charge-off when the loan is 120 days past due.

UNSECURED LOANS (OPEN END)  We generally charge-off when the loan is 180 days past due.

CREDIT CARD LOANS  We generally fully charge-off when the loan is 180 days past due.

OTHER SECURED LOANS  We generally fully or partially charge down to the net realizable value when
the loan is 120 days past due.

IMPAIRED LOANS  We consider a loan to be impaired when, based on current information and events, we
determine that we will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the loan contract,
including scheduled interest payments. We

103 

Table of Contents   

Note
1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  (continued)  

assess and account for as impaired certain nonaccrual commercial, commercial real estate (CRE), and
foreign loan exposures that are over $5 million and certain consumer, commercial, CRE, and foreign
loans whose terms have been modified in a troubled debt restructuring (TDR).

When we identify a loan as impaired, we measure the impairment based on the present value of
expected future cash flows, discounted at the loan s effective interest rate, except when the sole
(remaining) source of repayment for the loan is the operation or liquidation of the collateral. In
these cases we use the current fair value of the collateral, less selling costs when foreclosure is
probable, instead of discounted cash flows.

If we determine that the value of the impaired loan is less than the recorded investment in
the loan (net of previous charge-offs, deferred loan fees or costs and unamortized premium or
discount), we recognize impairment through an allowance estimate or a charge-off to the allowance.

TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS  In situations where, for economic or legal reasons related to a
borrower s financial difficulties, we grant a concession for other than an insignificant period of
time to the borrower that we would not otherwise consider, the
related loan is classified as a TDR. We strive to identify borrowers in financial difficulty early
and work with them to modify to more affordable terms before their loan reaches nonaccrual status.
These modified terms may include rate reductions, principal forgiveness, payment forbearance and
other actions intended to minimize the economic loss and to avoid foreclosure or repossession of
the collateral.

In cases where we grant the borrower new terms that provide for a reduction of either interest
or principal, we measure any impairment on the restructuring as noted above for impaired loans.

ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES  The allowance for credit losses, which consists of the allowance for
loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments, is management s estimate of credit
losses inherent in the loan portfolio at the balance sheet date.

PURCHASED CREDIT-IMPAIRED (PCI) LOANS  Loans acquired in a transfer, including business combinations
where there is evidence of credit deterioration since origination and it is probable at the date of
acquisition that we will not collect all contractually required principal and interest payments are
accounted for using the guidance for PCI loans, which is contained in
the Receivables topic of the Codification. PCI loans are initially recorded at fair value, and any
related allowance for loan losses cannot be carried over. Some loans that otherwise meet the
definition as credit impaired are specifically excluded from the PCI loan portfolios, such as
revolving loans where the borrower still has revolving privileges.

Evidence of credit quality deterioration as of the purchase date may include statistics such
as past due and nonaccrual status, recent borrower credit scores and recent loan-to-value
percentages. Generally, acquired loans that meet our defini-

tion for nonaccrual status are considered to be credit-impaired.

Accounting for PCI loans at acquisition involves estimating fair value using the principal and
interest cash flows expected to be collected on the credit impaired loans and discounting those
cash flows at a market rate of interest. The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the
estimated fair value is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest income
over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of loans, in situations where there is a reasonable
expectation about the timing and amount of cash flows to be collected. The difference between
contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition,
considering the impact of prepayments, is referred to as the nonaccretable difference.

Subsequent to acquisition, we complete quarterly evaluations of expected cash flows. Decreases
in the expected cash flows will generally result in a charge to the provision for credit losses
resulting in an increase to the allowance for loan losses. Increases in the expected cash flows
will generally result in an increase in interest income over the remaining life of the loan, or
pool of loans. Disposals of loans, which may include sales of loans to third parties, receipt of
payments in full or part by the borrower, and foreclosure of the collateral result in removal of
the loan from the PCI loan portfolio at its carrying amount.

Because PCI loans are written down at acquisition to an amount estimated to be collectible,
such loans are not classified as nonaccrual even though they may be contractually past due. We
expect to fully collect the new carrying values of such loans (that is, the new cost basis arising
out of purchase accounting). PCI loans are also excluded from the disclosure of loans 90 days or
more past due and still accruing interest. Even though substantially all of them are 90 days or
more contractually past due, they are considered to be accruing because the interest income on
these loans relates to the establishment of an accretable yield that is accreted into interest
income over the estimated life of the PCI loans using the effective yield method.

Securitizations and Beneficial Interests 

In certain asset securitization transactions that meet the applicable criteria to be accounted for
as a sale, assets are sold to an entity referred to as a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE),
which then issues beneficial interests in the form of senior and subordinated interests
collateralized by the assets. In some cases, we may retain up to 90% of the beneficial interests.
Additionally, from time to time, we may also resecuritize certain assets in a new securitization
transaction.

The assets and liabilities sold to a QSPE are excluded from our consolidated balance sheet,
subject to a quarterly evaluation to ensure the entity continues to meet the requirements to be a
QSPE. If our portion of the beneficial interests equals or exceeds 90%, a QSPE would no longer
qualify for off-balance sheet treatment and we may be required to consolidate the SPE, subject to
determining whether the entity is a VIE and to determining who is the primary beneficiary. In these
cases, any beneficial interests that we previously held are

104 

Table of Contents   

derecognized from the balance sheet and we record the underlying assets and liabilities of the SPE
at fair value to the extent interests were previously held by outside parties.

The carrying amount of the assets transferred to a QSPE, excluding servicing rights, is
allocated between the assets sold and the retained interests based on their relative fair values at
the date of transfer. We record a gain or loss in other fee income for the difference between the
carrying amount and the fair value of the assets sold. Fair values are based on quoted market
prices, quoted market prices for similar assets, or if market prices are not available, then the
fair value is estimated using discounted cash flow analyses with assumptions for credit losses,
prepayments and discount rates that are corroborated by and independently verified against market
observable data, where possible. Retained interests from securitizations with off-balance sheet
entities, including QSPEs and VIEs where we are the primary beneficiary, are classified as either
available-for-sale securities, trading account assets or loans, and are accounted for as described
herein.

Mortgage Servicing Rights 

Under the Transfers and Servicing topic of the Codification, servicing rights resulting from the
sale or securitization of loans we originate (asset transfers) are initially measured at fair value
at the date of transfer. We recognize the rights to service mortgage loans for others, or mortgage
servicing rights (MSRs), as assets whether we purchase the MSRs or the MSRs result from an asset
transfer. We determine the fair value of servicing rights at the date of transfer using the present
value of estimated future net servicing income, using assumptions that market participants use in
their estimates of values. We use quoted market prices when available to determine the value of
other interests held. Gain or loss on sale of loans depends on (1) proceeds received and (2) the
previous carrying amount of the financial assets transferred and any interests we continue to hold
(such as interest-only strips) based on relative fair value at the date of transfer.

To determine the fair value of MSRs, we use a valuation model that calculates the present
value of estimated future net servicing income. We use assumptions in the valuation model that
market participants use in estimating future net servicing income, including estimates of
prepayment speeds (including housing price volatility), discount rate, default rates, cost to
service (including delinquency and foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings, contractual
servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees. This model is validated by an independent
internal model validation group operating in accordance with a model validation policy approved by
Corporate ALCO.

MSRs MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE  We have elected to initially measure and carry our MSRs related to
residential mortgage loans (residential MSRs) using the fair value method. Under the fair value
method, these residential MSRs are carried in the balance sheet at fair value and the changes in
fair value, primarily due to changes in valuation inputs and assumptions and to the
collection/realization of expected cash flows, are reported in noninterest income in the period in
which the

change occurs.

AMORTIZED
MSRs  Amortized MSRs, which include commercial MSRs, are carried at the lower of cost or
market value. These MSRs are amortized in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net
servicing income. The amortization of MSRs is analyzed monthly and is adjusted to reflect changes
in prepayment speeds, as well as other factors. Amortized MSRs are
periodically evaluated for impairment based on the fair value of
those assets. If, by individual stratum, the carrying amount of these
MSRs exceeds fair value, a valuation reserve is established. The
valuation reserve is adjusted as the fair value changes. For purposes
of impairment evaluation and measurement, we stratify servicing
assets based on the predominant risk characteristics of the
underlying loans, including the category of the investor (e.g.,
governmental agency securitization, non-agency securitization or
purchased loan servicing).

Premises and Equipment 

Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Capital
leases are included in premises and equipment at the capitalized amount less accumulated
amortization.

We primarily use the straight-line method of depreciation and amortization. Estimated useful
lives range up to 40 years for buildings, up to 10 years for furniture and equipment, and the
shorter of the estimated useful life or lease term for leasehold improvements. We amortize
capitalized leased assets on a straight-line basis over the lives of the respective leases.

Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets 

Goodwill is recorded in business combinations under the purchase method of accounting when the
purchase price is higher than the fair value of net assets, including identifiable intangible
assets.

We assess goodwill for impairment annually, and more frequently in certain circumstances. We
have determined that our reporting units are one level below the operating segments. We assess
goodwill for impairment on a reporting unit level and apply various valuation methodologies as
appropriate to compare the estimated fair value to the carrying value of each reporting unit.
Valuation methodologies include discounted cash flow and earnings multiple approaches. If the fair
value is less than the carrying amount, a second test is required to measure the amount of
impairment. We recognize impairment losses as a charge to noninterest expense (unless related to
discontinued operations) and an adjustment to the carrying value of the goodwill asset. Subsequent
reversals of goodwill impairment are prohibited.

We amortize core deposit and other customer relationship intangibles on an accelerated basis
based on useful lives not exceeding 10 years. We review such intangibles for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying
amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment is indicated if the sum of undiscounted estimated future net cash flows is less than the
carrying value of the asset. Impairment is permanently recognized by writing down the asset to the
extent that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value.

Operating Lease Assets 

Operating lease rental income for leased assets is recognized in other income on a straight-line
basis over the lease term. Related depreciation expense is recorded on a straight-line basis over
the life of the lease, taking into account the estimated residual value of the leased asset. On a
periodic basis, leased assets are reviewed for impairment. Impairment loss is

105 

Table of Contents   

Note
1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  (continued)  

recognized if the carrying amount of leased assets exceeds fair value and is not recoverable. The
carrying amount of leased assets is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash
flows expected to result from the lease payments and the estimated residual value upon the eventual
disposition of the equipment. Leased assets are written down to the fair value of the collateral
less cost to sell when 120 days past due.

Pension Accounting 

We account for our defined benefit pension plans using an actuarial model required by accounting
guidance on retirement benefits. This model allocates pension costs over the service period of
employees in the plan. The underlying principle is that employees render service ratably over this
period and, therefore, the income statement effects of pensions should follow a similar pattern.

In
2008, we began measuring our plan assets and benefit obligations using a year-end measurement date. The change in the accounting
provisions for retirement benefits did not change the amount of net periodic benefit expense
recognized in our income statement.

One of the principal components of the net periodic pension expense calculation is the
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The use of an expected long-term rate of return
on plan assets may cause us to recognize pension income returns that are greater or less than the
actual returns of plan assets in any given year.

The expected long-term rate of return is designed to approximate the actual long-term rate of
return over time and is not expected to change significantly. Therefore, the pattern of
income/expense recognition should closely match the stable pattern of services provided by our
employees over the life of our pension obligation. To ensure that the expected rate of return is
reasonable, we consider such factors as (1) long-term historical return experience for major asset
class categories (for example, large cap and small cap domestic equities, international equities
and domestic fixed income), and (2) forward-looking return expectations for these major asset
classes. Differences between expected and actual returns in each year, if any, are included in our
net actuarial gain or loss amount, which is recognized in OCI. We
generally amortize any net actuarial gain or loss in excess of a 5% corridor in net periodic
pension expense calculations over the next 13 years.

We use a discount rate to determine the present value of our future benefit obligations. The
discount rate reflects the rates available at the measurement date on long-term high-quality
fixed-income debt instruments and is reset annually on the measurement date. In 2008, we changed
our measurement date from November 30 to December 31 as required by accounting guidance on
retirement benefits.

Income Taxes 

We file consolidated and separate company federal income tax returns, foreign tax returns and
various combined and separate company state tax returns.

We account for income taxes in accordance with the Income Taxes topic of the Codification,
which requires two components of income tax expense: current and deferred. Current income tax
expense approximates taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period and includes income tax
expense related to our uncertain tax positions. We determine deferred income taxes using the
balance sheet method. Under this method, the net deferred tax asset or liability is based on the
tax effects of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and
recognizes enacted changes in tax rates and laws in the period in which they occur. Deferred income
tax expense results from changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities between periods. Deferred
tax assets are recognized subject to management s judgment that realization is more likely than
not. A tax position that meets the  more likely than not  recognition threshold is measured to
determine the amount of benefit to recognize. The tax position is measured at the largest amount of
benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Foreign taxes paid are
generally applied as credits to reduce federal income taxes payable. Interest and penalties are
recognized as a component of income tax expense.

Stock-Based Compensation 

We have stock-based employee
compensation plans as more fully discussed in Note 18 in this Report. Under
accounting guidance for stock compensation, compensation cost recognized includes cost for all
share-based awards.

Earnings Per Common Share 

We compute earnings per common share by dividing net income (after deducting dividends on preferred
stock) by the average number of common shares outstanding during the year. We compute diluted
earnings per common share by dividing net income (after deducting dividends and related accretion
on preferred stock) by the average number of common shares outstanding during the year, plus the
effect of common stock equivalents (for example, stock options, restricted share rights,
convertible debentures and warrants) that are dilutive.

106 

Table of Contents   

Derivatives and Hedging Activities 

We recognize all derivatives in the balance sheet at fair value. On the date we enter into a
derivative contract, we designate the derivative as (1) a hedge of the fair value of a recognized
asset or liability, including hedges of foreign currency exposure ( fair value  hedge), (2) a hedge
of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a
recognized asset or liability ( cash flow  hedge), or (3) held for trading, customer accommodation
or asset/liability risk management purposes, including economic hedges not qualifying for hedge
accounting. For a fair value hedge, we record changes in the fair value of the derivative and, to
the extent that it is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability
attributable to the hedged risk, in current period earnings in the same financial statement
category as the hedged item. For a cash flow hedge, we record changes in the fair value of the
derivative to the extent that it is effective in OCI, with any ineffectiveness recorded in current
period earnings. We subsequently reclassify these changes in fair value to net income in the same
period(s) that the hedged transaction affects net income in the same financial statement category
as the hedged item. For free-standing derivatives, we report changes in the fair values in current
period noninterest income.

For fair value and cash flow hedges qualifying for hedge accounting, we formally document at
inception the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, our risk management
objective, strategy and our evaluation of effectiveness for our hedge transactions. This includes
linking all derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges to specific assets and
liabilities in the balance sheet or to specific forecasted transactions. Periodically, as required,
we also formally assess whether the derivative we designated in each hedging relationship is
expected to be and has been highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of
the hedged item using the regression analysis method or, in limited cases, the dollar offset
method.

We discontinue hedge accounting prospectively when (1) a derivative is no longer highly
effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item, (2) a derivative
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, (3) a derivative is de-designated as a hedge, because
it is unlikely that a forecasted transaction will occur, or (4) we determine that designation of a
derivative as a hedge is no longer appropriate.

When we discontinue hedge accounting because a derivative no longer qualifies as an effective
fair value hedge, we continue to carry the derivative in the balance sheet at its fair value with
changes in fair value included in earnings, and no longer adjust the previously hedged asset or
liability for changes in fair value. Previous adjustments to the hedged item are accounted for in
the same manner as other components of the carrying amount of the asset or liability.

When we discontinue cash flow hedge accounting because the hedging instrument is sold,
terminated or no longer designated (de-designated), the amount reported in OCI up to the date of
sale, termination or de-designation continues to be reported in OCI until the forecasted
transaction affects earnings.

When we discontinue cash flow hedge accounting because it is probable that a forecasted
transaction will not occur, we continue to carry the derivative in the balance sheet at its fair
value with changes in fair value included in earnings, and immediately recognize gains and losses
that were accumulated in OCI in earnings.

In all other situations in which we discontinue hedge accounting, the derivative will be
carried at its fair value in the balance sheet, with changes in its fair value recognized in
current period earnings.

We occasionally purchase or originate financial instruments that contain an embedded
derivative. At inception of the financial instrument, we assess (1) if the economic characteristics
of the embedded derivative are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of
the financial instrument (host contract), (2) if the financial instrument that embodies both the
embedded derivative and the host contract is not measured at fair value with changes in fair value
reported in earnings, and (3) if a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded
instrument would meet the definition of a derivative. If the embedded derivative meets all of these
conditions, we separate it from the host contract by recording the bifurcated derivative at fair
value and the remaining host contract at the difference between the basis of the hybrid instrument
and the fair value of the bifurcated derivative. The bifurcated derivative is carried as a
free-standing derivative at fair value with changes recorded in current period earnings.

107 

Table of Contents   

Note
1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  (continued)  

SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION  Noncash investing and financing activities are presented below,
including information on transfers affecting MHFS, LHFS, and MSRs.

SUBSEQUENT EVENTS  We have evaluated the effects of subsequent events that have occurred subsequent
to period end

December 31, 2009, and through February 26, 2010, which is the date we issued our financial
statements. During this period, there have been no material events that would require recognition
in our 2009 consolidated financial statements or disclosure in the Notes to the financial
statements.

108 

Table of Contents   

Note 2:  Business Combinations 

On December 31, 2008, we acquired all outstanding shares of Wachovia common stock in a
stock-for-stock transaction. Wachovia, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, was one of the nation s
largest diversified financial services companies, providing a broad range of retail banking and
brokerage, asset and wealth management, and corporate and investment banking products and services
to customers through 3,300 financial centers in 21 states from Connecticut to Florida and west to
Texas and California, and nationwide retail brokerage, mortgage lending and auto finance
businesses. In the merger, we exchanged 0.1991 shares of our common stock for each outstanding
share of Wachovia common stock, issuing a total of 422.7 million shares of our common stock with a
December 31, 2008, value of $12.5 billion to Wachovia shareholders. Shares of each outstanding
series of Wachovia preferred stock were converted into shares (or fractional shares) of a
corresponding series of our preferred stock having substantially the same rights and preferences.
Because the acquisition was completed at the end of 2008, Wachovia s results of operations for 2008
are not included in our income statement.

The assets and liabilities of Wachovia were recorded at their respective acquisition date fair
values, and identifiable intangible assets were recorded at fair value. Because the transaction
closed on the last day of the annual reporting period, certain fair value purchase accounting
adjustments were based on data as of an interim period with estimates through year end.
Accordingly, we have re-validated, and, where necessary, have finalized our purchase accounting
adjustments. The impact of all finalized purchase accounting adjustments were recorded to goodwill
and increased goodwill by $2.1 billion in 2009. This acquisition
was nontaxable and, as a result, there is no tax basis in goodwill.
Accordingly, none of the goodwill associated with the Wachovia
acquisition is deductible for tax purposes. Additional exit reserves related to costs
associated with involuntary employee termination, contract termination penalties and closing
duplicate facilities were recorded during 2009 as part of the further integration of Wachovia s
employees, locations and operations.

The final allocation of purchase price at December 31, 2008, is presented in the following
table.

109 

Table of Contents   

Note
2:  Business Combinations  (continued)  

The increase in goodwill includes the recognition of additional types of costs associated with
involuntary employee termination, contract terminations and closing duplicate facilities and have
been allocated to the purchase price. These costs were recorded throughout 2009 as part of the

further integration of Wachovia s employees, locations
 and operations as management finalized
integration plans. The following table summarizes exit reserves associated with the Wachovia
acquisition.

(1) Certain purchase accounting adjustments have been refined during 2009 as additional information
became available. 

We regularly explore opportunities to acquire financial services companies and businesses.
Generally, we do not make a public announcement about an acquisition opportunity until a definitive
agreement has been signed.

In addition to the 2008 Wachovia acquisition, business combinations completed in 2009, 2008
and 2007 are presented below.

For information on additional consideration related to acquisitions, which is considered to be
a guarantee, see Note 14 in this Report.

(1) 
       
     Consists of eight acquisitions of insurance brokerage businesses. 

(2) 
       
     Consists of five affiliated banks of United Bancorporation of Wyoming, Inc., located in Wyoming
and Idaho, and certain assets and liabilities of United Bancorporation of Wyoming, Inc. 

(3) 
       
     Represents a step acquisition resulting from the increase in Wells Fargo s ownership from a
47.5% interest to a 60% interest in the Wells Fargo Merchant Services, LLC  joint venture. 

(4) 
       
     Consists of 12 acquisitions of insurance brokerage businesses. 

(5) 
       
     Consists of six acquisitions of insurance brokerage and third party health care payment
processing businesses. 

110 

Table of Contents   

Note 3:  Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions 

Federal Reserve Board (FRB) regulations require that each of our subsidiary banks maintain reserve
balances on deposit with the Federal Reserve Banks. The average required reserve balance was $2.4
billion in 2009 and $2.6 billion in 2008.

Federal law restricts the amount and the terms of both credit and non-credit transactions
between a bank and its nonbank affiliates. They may not exceed 10% of the bank s capital and
surplus (which for this purpose represents Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, as calculated under the
risk-based capital (RBC) guidelines, plus the balance of the allowance for credit losses excluded
from Tier 2 capital) with any single nonbank affiliate and 20% of the bank s capital and surplus
with all its nonbank affiliates. Transactions that are extensions of credit may require collateral
to be held to provide added security to the bank. For further discussion of RBC, see Note 25 in
this Report.

Dividends paid by our subsidiary banks are subject to various federal and state regulatory
limitations. Dividends that may be paid by a national bank without the express approval of the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) are limited to that bank s retained net profits for
the preceding two calendar years plus retained net profits up to the date of any

dividend declaration in the current calendar year. Retained net profits, as defined by the OCC,
consist of net income less dividends declared during the period. We also have state-chartered
subsidiary banks that are subject to state regulations that limit dividends. Under those
provisions, our national and state-chartered subsidiary banks could have declared additional
dividends of $5.3 billion at December 31, 2009, without obtaining prior regulatory approval. Our
nonbank subsidiaries are also limited by certain federal and state statutory provisions and
regulations covering the amount of dividends that may be paid in any given year. Based on retained
earnings at December 31, 2009, our nonbank subsidiaries could have declared additional dividends of
$2.5 billion at December 31, 2009, without obtaining prior approval.

The FRB published clarifying supervisory guidance in first quarter 2009,  SR 09-4 Applying
Supervisory Guidance and Regulations on the Payment of Dividends, Stock Redemptions, and Stock
Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies , pertaining to FRB s criteria, assessment and approval
process for reductions in capital including the redemption of Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP)
and the payment of dividends. The effect of this guidance is to
require the approval of the FRB for the Company to repurchase or
redeem common or perpetual preferred stock as well as to raise the
per share dividend from its current level of $0.05 per share.

Note 4:  Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Resale Agreements and Other Short-Term Investments 

The following table provides the detail of federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale
agreements and other short-term investments.

We pledge certain financial instruments that we own to collateralize repurchase agreements and
other securities financings. The types of collateral we pledge include securities issued by federal
agencies, government-sponsored

entities (GSEs), and domestic and foreign companies. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we pledged
$14.8 billion and $7.9 billion, respectively, under agreements that permit the secured parties to
sell or repledge the collateral. Pledged collateral where the secured party cannot sell or repledge
was $434 million and $10 million, at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

We receive collateral from other entities under resale agreements and securities borrowings.
At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we received $31.4 billion and $7.9 billion, respectively, for which
we have the right to sell or repledge the collateral. These amounts include securities we have sold
or repledged to others with a fair value of $29.7 billion at December 31, 2009, and $5.4 billion at
December 31, 2008.

111 

Table of Contents   

Note 5:    Securities Available for Sale 

The following table provides the cost and fair value for the major categories of securities
available for sale carried at fair value. The net unrealized gains (losses) are reported on an

after tax basis as a component of cumulative OCI. There were no securities classified as held to
maturity as of the periods presented.

(1) 
       
     The  Other  category includes certain asset-backed securities collateralized by auto leases
or loans and cash reserves with a cost basis and fair value of $8.2 billion and $8.5 billion,
respectively, at December 31, 2009, and $8.3 billion and $7.9 billion, respectively, at
December 31, 2008. Also included in the  Other  category are asset-backed securities
collateralized by home equity loans with a cost basis and fair value of $2.3 billion and $2.5
billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009, and $3.2 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively,
at December 31, 2008. The remaining balances primarily include asset-backed securities
collateralized by credit cards and student loans. 

(2) 
       
     Foreign residential mortgage-backed securities with a cost basis and fair value of $51
million are included in residential mortgage-backed securities at
December 31, 2009. These instruments were included in other debt
securities at December 31, 2008, and had a cost basis and    fair
value of $6.3 billion. 

As part of our liquidity management strategy, we pledge securities to secure borrowings from
the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) and the Federal Reserve Bank. We also pledge securities to secure
trust and public deposits and for other purposes as required or permitted by law. The carrying
value of pledged securities where the secured party has the right

to sell or repledge totaled $5.0 billion at December 31, 2009, and $4.5 billion at December 31,
2008. Securities pledged where the secured party does not have the right to sell or repledge
totaled $93.9 billion at December 31, 2009, and $71.6 billion at December 31, 2008.

112 

Table of Contents   

Gross Unrealized Losses and Fair Value  

The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value of securities in the
securities available for sale portfolio by length of time that individual securities in each
category had been in a continuous loss position. Debt securities on which we have taken only
credit-related OTTI write-downs

are categorized as being  less than 12 months  or  12 months
or more  in a continuous loss position based on the point
in time that the fair value declined to below the cost basis
and not the period of time since the credit-related
OTTI write-down.

We do not have the intent to sell any securities included in the table above. For debt
securities included in the table above, we have concluded it is more likely than not that we will
not be required to sell prior to recovery of the amortized cost basis. We have assessed each
security for credit impairment. For debt securities, we evaluate, where necessary, whether credit
impairment exists by comparing the present value of the expected cash flows to the securities
amortized cost basis. For equity securities, we consider numerous factors in determining whether
impairment exists, including our intent and ability to hold the securities for a period of time
sufficient to recover the cost basis of the securities.

See
Note 1    Securities  in this Report for the factors that we consider in our analysis of
OTTI for debt and equity securities available for sale.

SECURITIES OF U.S. TREASURY AND FEDERAL AGENCIES  The unrealized losses associated with U.S.
Treasury and federal agency securities do not have any credit losses due to the guarantees provided
by the United States government.

SECURITIES OF U.S. STATES AND POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS  The unrealized losses associated with
securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions are primarily driven by changes in interest
rates and not due to the credit quality of the securities. The fair value of these investments is
almost exclusively investment grade. The securities were generally underwritten in accordance with
our own investment standards prior to the decision to purchase, without relying on a bond insurer s
guarantee in making the investment decision. These investments will continue to be monitored as
part of our ongoing

113 

Table of Contents   

Note 5:    Securities Available for Sale (   continued)  

impairment analysis, but are expected to perform, even if the rating agencies reduce the credit
rating of the bond insurers. As a result, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of
these securities.

FEDERAL AGENCY MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MBS)  The unrealized losses associated with federal
agency MBS are primarily driven by changes in interest rates and not due to credit losses. These
securities are issued by U.S. government or GSEs and do not have any credit losses given the
explicit or implicit government guarantee.

RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES  The unrealized losses associated with private residential
MBS are primarily driven by higher projected collateral losses, wider credit spreads and changes in
interest rates. We assess for credit impairment using a cash flow model. The key assumptions
include default rates, severities and prepayment rates. We estimate losses to a security by
forecasting the underlying mortgage loans in each transaction. The forecasted loan performance is
used to project cash flows to the various tranches in the structure. Cash flow forecasts also
considered, as applicable, independent industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit
ratings, and other independent market data. Based upon our assessment of the expected credit losses
of the security given the performance of the underlying collateral compared with our credit
enhancement, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities.

COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES  The unrealized losses associated with commercial MBS are
primarily driven by higher projected collateral losses and wider credit spreads. These investments
are almost exclusively investment grade. We assess for credit impairment using a cash flow model.
The key assumptions include default rates and severities. We estimate losses to a security by
forecasting the underlying loans in each transaction. The forecasted loan performance is used to
project cash flows to the various tranches in the structure. Cash flow forecasts also considered,
as applicable, independent industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings, and other
independent market data. Based upon our assessment of the expected credit losses of the security
given the performance of the underlying collateral compared with our credit enhancement, we expect
to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities.

CORPORATE DEBT SECURITIES  The unrealized losses associated with corporate debt securities are
primarily related to securities backed by commercial loans and individual issuer companies. For
securities with commercial loans as the underlying collateral, we have evaluated the expected
credit losses in

the security and concluded that we have sufficient credit enhancement when compared with our
estimate of credit losses for the individual security. For individual issuers, we evaluate the
financial performance of the issuer on a quarterly basis to determine that the issuer can make all
contractual principal and interest payments. Based upon this assessment, we expect to recover the
entire cost basis of these securities.

COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (CDOs)  The unrealized losses associated with CDOs relate to
securities primarily backed by commercial, residential or other consumer collateral. The losses are
primarily driven by higher projected collateral losses and wider credit spreads. We assess for
credit impairment using a cash flow model. The key assumptions include default rates, severities
and prepayment rates. Based upon our assessment of the expected credit losses of the security given
the performance of the underlying collateral compared with our credit enhancement, we expect to
recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities.

OTHER DEBT SECURITIES  The unrealized losses associated with other debt securities primarily relate
to other asset-backed securities, which are primarily backed by auto, home equity and student
loans. The losses are primarily driven by higher projected collateral losses, wider credit spreads
and changes in interest rates. We assess for credit impairment using a cash flow model. The key
assumptions include default rates, severities and prepayment rates. Based upon our assessment of
the expected credit losses of the security given the performance of the underlying collateral
compared with our credit enhancement, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these
securities.

MARKETABLE EQUITY SECURITIES  Our marketable equity securities include investments in perpetual
preferred securities, which provide very attractive tax-equivalent
yields. We
evaluated these hybrid financial instruments with investment-grade ratings for impairment using an
evaluation methodology similar to that used for debt securities. Perpetual preferred securities
were not other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2009, if there was no evidence of credit
deterioration or investment rating downgrades of any issuers to below investment grade, and we
expected to continue to receive full contractual payments. We will continue to evaluate the
prospects for these securities for recovery in their market value in accordance with our policy for
estimating OTTI. We have recorded impairment write-downs on perpetual preferred securities where
there was evidence of credit deterioration.

114 

Table of Contents   

The fair values of our investment securities could decline in the future if the underlying
performance of the collateral for the residential and commercial MBS or other securities
deteriorate and our credit enhancement levels do not provide sufficient protection to our
contractual principal and interest. As a result, there is a risk that significant OTTI may occur in
the future given the current economic environment.

The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value of debt and perpetual
preferred securities available for sale by those rated investment grade and those rated less than
investment grade, according to their lowest credit rating by Standard   Poor s Rating Services
(S P) or Moody s Investors Service (Moody s). Credit ratings express opinions about the credit
quality of a security. Securities rated investment grade, that is those rated BBB- or higher by S P
or Baa3 or higher by Moody s, are generally considered by the rating agencies and market
participants to be low credit risk. Conversely, securities rated below investment grade, labeled

as  speculative grade  by the rating agencies, are considered to be distinctively higher credit
risk than investment grade securities. We have also included securities not rated by S P or Moody s
in the table below based on the internal credit grade of the securities (used for credit risk
management purposes) equivalent to the credit rating assigned by major credit agencies. There were
no unrated securities included in investment grade in a loss position as of December 31, 2009. The
unrealized losses and fair value of unrated securities categorized as investment grade were $543
million and $8.1 billion as of December 31, 2008. Substantially all of the unrealized losses on
unrated securities classified as investment grade as of December 31, 2008, were related to
investments in asset-backed securities collateralized by auto leases and cash reserves that
appreciated to an unrealized gain position at December 31, 2009, due to spread tightening. If an
internal credit grade was not assigned, we categorized the security as non-investment grade.

115 

Table of Contents   

Note 5:    Securities Available for Sale (   continued)  

Realized Gains and Losses   
The following table shows the gross realized gains and losses on sales from the securities
available-for-sale portfolio, including marketable equity securities. Realized losses included OTTI
write-downs of $1.1 billion, $1.8 billion and $50 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Other-Than-Temporary Impairment  

The following table shows the detail of total OTTI related to debt and equity securities available
for sale, and nonmarketable equity securities.

(in millions) 
       
     Year ended December 31, 2009 

OTTI write-downs 

(included in earnings) 

Debt securities

$ 
     1,012 

Equity securities:

Marketable equity securities

82 

Nonmarketable equity securities

573 

Total equity securities

655 

Total OTTI write-downs

$ 
     1,667 

OTTI on debt securities 

Recorded as part of gross
realized losses:

Credit-related OTTI

$ 
     982 

Securities we intend to sell

30 

Recorded directly to other  
comprehensive income
for  
non-credit-related impairment  (1) 

1,340 

Total OTTI on debt securities

$ 
     2,352 

(1) 
       
     Represents amounts recorded to OCI on debt securities in periods OTTI
write-downs have occurred, which included $1.1 billion related to
residential MBS and $179 million related to commercial MBS. Changes in fair value in subsequent periods on
such securities, to the extent not subsequently impaired in those periods,
are not reflected in this balance. 

The following table provides detail of OTTI recognized in earnings for debt and equity
securities available for sale by major security type.

Securities that were determined to be credit impaired during the current year as opposed to
prior years, in general have experienced further degradation in expected cash flows primarily due
to higher loss forecasts.

Other-Than-Temporarily Impaired Debt Securities  

We recognize OTTI for debt securities classified as available for sale in accordance with FASB ASC
320,  Investments   Debt and Equity Securities , which requires that we assess whether we intend to
sell or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell a security before recovery of
its amortized cost basis less any current-period credit losses. For debt securities that are
considered other-than-temporarily impaired and that we do not intend to sell and will not be
required to sell prior to recovery of our amortized cost basis, we separate the amount of the
impairment into the amount that is credit related (credit loss component) and the amount due to all
other factors. The credit loss component is recognized in earnings and is the difference between
the security s amortized cost basis and the present value of its expected future cash flows
discounted at the security s effective yield. The remaining difference between the security s fair
value and the present value of future expected cash flows is due to factors that are not credit
related and, therefore, is not required to be recognized as losses in the income statement, but is
recognized in OCI. We believe that we will fully collect the carrying value of securities on which
we have recorded a non-credit-related impairment in OCI.

116 

Table of Contents   

The table below presents a roll-forward of the credit loss component recognized in earnings
(referred to as  credit-impaired  debt securities). The credit loss component of the amortized cost
represents the difference between the present value of expected future cash flows and the amortized
cost basis of the security prior to considering credit losses. The beginning balance represents the
credit loss component for debt securities for which OTTI occurred prior to January 1, 2009. OTTI
recognized in earnings in 2009 for credit-impaired debt securities is presented as additions in two
components based upon whether the current period is the first time the debt security was
credit-impaired (initial credit impairment) or is not the first time the debt security was credit
impaired (subsequent credit impairments). The credit loss component is reduced if we sell, intend
to sell or believe we will be required to sell previously credit-impaired debt securities.
Additionally, the credit loss component is reduced if we receive or expect to receive cash flows in
excess of what we previously expected to receive over the remaining life of the credit-impaired
debt security, the security matures or is fully written down. Changes in the credit loss component
of credit-impaired debt securities were:

(1) 
       
     Excludes $30 million of OTTI on debt securities we intend to sell. 

For asset-backed securities (e.g., residential MBS), we estimated
expected future cash flows of the security by estimating the expected future cash flows of the
underlying collateral and applying those collateral cash flows, together with any credit
enhancements such as subordinated interests owned by third parties, to the security. The expected
future cash flows of the underlying collateral are determined using the remaining contractual cash
flows adjusted for future expected credit losses (which considers current delinquencies and
nonperforming assets, future expected default rates and collateral value by vintage and geographic
region) and prepayments. The expected cash flows of the security are then discounted at the
interest rate used to recognize interest income on the security to arrive at a present value
amount. The table below presents a summary of the significant inputs considered in determining the
measurement of the credit loss component recognized in earnings for residential MBS.

(1) 
       
     Total credit impairment losses were $591 million, of which 96% were recorded
on non-investment grade securities for the year ended
December 31, 2009. This does not include OTTI recorded on those
securities that we intend to sell. 

(2) 
       
     Represents future expected credit losses on underlying pool of loans
expressed as a percentage of total current outstanding loan balance. 

(3) 
       
     Represents the range of inputs/assumptions based upon the individual
securities within each category. 

(4) 
       
     Represents distribution of credit impairment losses recognized in earnings
categorized based on range of expected remaining life of loan losses. 

For example, 56% of credit impairment losses recognized in earnings for the
year ended December 31, 2009, had expected remaining life of loan loss
assumptions of 0 to 10%. 

(5) 
       
     Calculated by weighting the relevant input/assumption for each individual
security by current outstanding amortized cost basis of the security. 

(6) 
       
     Represents current level of credit protection (subordination) for the securities,
expressed as a percentage of total current underlying loan balance. 

(7) 
       
     Constant prepayment rate. 

117 

Table of Contents   

Note 5:    Securities Available for Sale (   continued)  

Contractual Maturities  

The following table shows the remaining contractual principal maturities and contractual yields of
debt securities available for sale. The remaining contractual principal maturities for

MBS were determined assuming no prepayments. Remaining expected maturities will differ from
contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations before the
underlying mortgages mature.

(1) 
     The weighted-average yield is computed using the contractual coupon of each security weighted
based on the fair value of each security. 

(2)  
     Information for December 31, 2008, has been revised to conform the determination of remaining
contractual principal maturities and weighted-average yields to the
current period methodology. 

118 

Table of Contents   

Note 6:      Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 

The following table presents the major categories of loans outstanding including those subject to
accounting guidance for PCI loans. Certain loans acquired in the Wachovia acquisition are accounted
for as PCI loans and are included below, net of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments.

Outstanding balances of all other loans are presented net of unearned income, net deferred loan
fees, and unamortized discount and premium totaling $14.6 billion at December 31, 2009, and $16.9
billion, at December 31, 2008.

(1)  
     In 2009, we refined certain of our preliminary purchase accounting adjustments based on
additional information as of December 31, 2008. These refinements resulted
in increasing the PCI loans carrying value at December 31, 2008, to $59.2 billion. The table above
has not been updated as of December 31, 2008, to reflect these refinements. 

We pledge loans to secure borrowings from the FHLB and the Federal Reserve Bank as part of our
liquidity management strategy. Loans pledged where the secured party does not have the right to
sell or repledge totaled $312.6 billion and $337.5 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. We did not have any pledged loans where the secured party has the right to sell or
repledge at December 31, 2009 or 2008.

Loan concentrations may exist when there are amounts loaned to borrowers engaged in similar
activities or similar types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that would cause them
to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, we did not
have concentrations representing 10% or more of our total loan portfolio in commercial loans and
lease financing by industry or CRE loans (real estate mortgage and real estate construction) by
state or property type. Our real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans to borrowers in the state of
California represented approximately 14% of total loans at both December 31, 2009 and 2008. Of
this amount, 3% of total loans were PCI loans at December 31, 2009. These loans are generally
diversified among the larger metropolitan areas in California, with no single area consisting of
more than 3% of total loans. Changes in real estate values and underlying

economic or market conditions for these areas are monitored continuously within our credit risk
management process. Beginning in 2007, the residential real estate markets experienced significant
declines in property values, and several markets in California, specifically the Central Valley and
several Southern California metropolitan statistical areas, experienced more severe value
adjustments.

Some of our real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans, including first mortgage and home equity
products, include an interest-only feature as part of the loan terms. At December 31, 2009, these
loans were approximately 15% of total loans, compared with 11% at December 31, 2008. Most of these
loans are considered to be prime or near prime.

For certain extensions of credit, we may require collateral, based on our assessment of a
customer s credit risk. We hold various types of collateral, including accounts receivable,
inventory, land, buildings, equipment, autos, financial instruments, income-producing commercial
properties and residential real estate. Collateral requirements for each customer may vary
according to the specific credit underwriting, terms and structure of loans funded immediately or
under a commitment to fund at a later date.

119 

Table of Contents   

Note 6:    Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses (   continued)  

A commitment to extend credit is a legally binding agreement to lend funds to a customer,
usually at a stated interest rate and for a specified purpose. These commitments have fixed
expiration dates and generally require a fee. When we make such a commitment, we have credit risk.
The liquidity requirements or credit risk will be lower than the contractual amount of commitments
to extend credit because a significant portion of these commitments are expected to expire without
being used. Certain commitments are subject to loan agreements with covenants regarding the
financial performance of the customer or borrowing base formulas that must be met before we are
required to fund the commitment. We use the same credit policies in extending credit for unfunded
commitments and letters of credit that we use in making loans. See
Note 14 in this Report for information on
standby letters of credit.

In addition, we manage the potential risk in credit commitments by limiting the total amount
of arrangements, both by individual customer and in total, by monitoring the size and maturity
structure of these portfolios and by applying the same credit standards for all of our credit
activities.

The total of our unfunded loan commitments, net of all funds lent and all standby and
commercial letters of credit issued under the terms of these commitments, is summarized by loan
category in the following table:

We have an established process to determine the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses
that assesses the risks and losses inherent in our portfolio. While we attribute portions of the
allowance to specific loan categories as part of our analytical process, the entire allowance is
used to absorb credit losses inherent in the total loan portfolio.

At December 31, 2009, the portion of the allowance for credit losses estimated at a pooled
level for consumer loans and some segments of commercial small business loans was $16.7 billion.
For purposes of determining the allowance for credit losses, we pool certain loans in our portfolio
by product type, primarily for the auto, credit card and real estate mortgage portfolios. To
achieve greater accuracy, we further segment selected portfolios. As appropriate, the business
groups may attempt to achieve greater accuracy through segmentation by sub-product, origination
channel, vintage, loss type, geography and other predictive characteristics. For example, credit
cards

are segmented by origination channel and the Home Equity portfolios into liquidating and
nonliquidating portfolios. In the case of residential mortgages, we segment the liquidating
Pick-a-Pay portfolio, and further segment the remainder of the residential mortgage portfolio based
on origination channel.

To measure losses inherent in consumer loans and some commercial small business loans, we use
loss models and other quantitative, mathematical techniques. Each business group estimates losses
for loans as of the balance sheet date over the loss emergence period. During fourth quarter 2008,
we conformed our loss emergence period for these portfolios to cover 12 months of estimated losses,
which is within Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) guidelines and resulted
in a $2.7 billion increase to the allowance for credit losses in 2008.

In determining the appropriate allowance attributable to our residential real estate
portfolios, the loss rates used in our analysis include the impacts of our established loan
modification programs. When modifications occur or are probable to occur, our allowance considers
the impact of these modifications, taking into consideration the associated credit cost, including
re-defaults of modified loans and projected loss severity. The loss content associated with
existing and probable loan modifications has been considered in our allowance reserving
methodology.

The portion of the allowance for commercial, CRE, and foreign loans and lease financing was
$8.3 billion at December 31, 2009. We initially estimate this portion of the allowance by applying
historical loss factors statistically derived from tracking losses associated with actual portfolio
movements over a specified period of time, for each specific loan grade. Based on this process, we
assign loss factors to each pool of graded loans and a loan equivalent amount for unfunded loan
commitments and letters of credit. These estimates are then adjusted or supplemented where
necessary from additional analysis of long-term average loss experience, external loss data or
other risks identified from current conditions and trends in selected portfolios, including
management s judgment for imprecision and uncertainty.

We also assess and account for certain nonaccrual commercial, CRE, and foreign loan exposures
that are over $5 million and certain consumer, commercial, CRE, and foreign loans whose terms have
been modified in a TDR as impaired. We include the impairment on these nonperforming loans in the
allowance unless it has already been recognized as a loss. At December 31, 2009, we included $2.8
billion in the allowance related to these impaired loans, which is included in other components of
the allowance described above.

Reflected in the portions of the allowance previously described is an amount for imprecision
or uncertainty that incorporates the range of probable outcomes inherent in estimates used for the
allowance, which may change from period to period. This amount is the result of our judgment of
risks inherent in the portfolios, economic uncertainties, historical loss experience and other
subjective factors, including industry trends, calculated to better reflect our view of risk in
each loan portfolio.

120 

Table of Contents   

In addition, the allowance for credit losses included a reserve for unfunded credit
commitments of $515 million at December 31, 2009.

The total allowance reflects management s estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan
portfolio at the balance sheet date. We consider the allowance for credit losses of

$25.0 billion adequate to cover credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio, including unfunded
credit commitments, at December 31, 2009.

The allowance for credit losses consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for
unfunded credit commitments. Changes in the allowance for credit losses were:

(1) 
       
     For PCI loans, charge-offs are only recorded to the extent that losses exceed the purchase
accounting estimates. 

(2) 
       
     The allowance for credit losses includes $333 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and
none for prior years related to PCI loans acquired from Wachovia. Loans
acquired from Wachovia are included in total loans, net of related purchase accounting net
write-downs. 

Nonaccrual loans were $24.4 billion and $6.8 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. PCI loans have been classified as accruing. Loans past due 90 days or more as to
interest or principal and still accruing interest were $22.2 billion at December 31, 2009, and
$11.8 billion at December 31, 2008. The 2009 and 2008 balances included

$15.3 billion and $8.2 billion, respectively, in advances pursuant to our servicing agreements to
the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) mortgage pools and similar loans whose
repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department
of Veterans Affairs (VA).

121 

Table of Contents   

Note 6:    Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses (   continued)  

We consider a loan to be impaired under the accounting guidance for loan impairment provisions
when, based on current information and events, we determine that we will not be able to collect all
amounts due according to the loan contract, including scheduled interest payments. We assess and
account for as impaired certain nonaccrual commercial, CRE and foreign loan exposures that are over
$5 million and certain consumer, commercial, CRE and foreign loans whose terms have been modified
in a TDR. The recorded investment in impaired loans and the
methodology used to measure impairment was:

(1) 
       
     The December 31, 2009, balance includes $501 million of GNMA loans that are
insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA. Although both principal and
interest are insured, the insured interest rate may be different than the original
contractual interest rate prior to modification, resulting in interest impairment
under a discounted cash flow methodology. 

(2) 
       
     Includes $15.0 billion and $3.5 billion of impaired loans with a related allowance
of $2.8 billion and $816 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. The remaining impaired loans do not have a specific impaired
allowance associated with them. 

The average recorded investment in these impaired loans was $10.6 billion, $2.0 billion and
$313 million, in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

When the ultimate collectibility of the total principal of an impaired loan is in doubt and
the loan is on nonaccrual status, all payments are applied to principal, under the cost recovery
method. When the ultimate collectibility of the total principal of an impaired loan is not in doubt
and the loan is on nonaccrual status, contractual interest is credited to interest income when
received, under the cash basis method. Total interest income recognized for impaired loans in 2009,
2008 and 2007 under the cash basis method was not significant.

Purchased
Credit-Impaired Loans  

PCI loans had an unpaid principal balance of $83.6 billion at December 31, 2009, and $98.2 billion
at December 31, 2008 (refined), and a carrying value, before the deduction of the allowance for
loan losses, of $51.7 billion and $59.2 billion, respectively. The following table provides
details on the PCI loans acquired from Wachovia.

(1) 
       
     Includes $40.9 billion in principal cash flows not expected to be collected,
$2.0 billion of pre-acquisition charge-offs and $2.5 billion of future interest
not expected to be collected. 

(2) 
       
     Represents undiscounted expected principal and interest cash flows. 

The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the initial fair value of PCI loans is
referred to as the accretable yield and is accreted into interest income over the estimated
life of the PCI loans using the effective yield method. The accretable yield will change due
to:

estimate of the remaining life of PCI loans which may change the amount of future interest
income, and possibly principal, expected to be collected; 

estimate of the amount of contractually required principal and interest payments over the
estimated life that will not be collected (the nonaccretable difference); and 

indices for PCI loans with variable rates of interest. 

For PCI loans, the impact of loan modifications is included in the evaluation of expected cash
flows for subsequent decreases or increases of cash flows. For variable rate PCI loans, expected
future cash flows will be recalculated as the rates adjust over the lives of the loans. At
acquisition, the expected future cash flows were based on the variable rates that were in effect at
that time. The change in the accretable yield related to PCI loans is presented in the following
table.

(1) 
       
     Represents changes in interest cash flows due to the impact of modifications
incorporated into the quarterly assessment of expected future cash flows
and/or changes in interest rates on variable rate loans. 

When it is estimated that the expected cash flows have decreased subsequent to acquisition for
a PCI loan or pool of loans, an allowance is established and a provision for additional loss is
recorded as a charge to income. The table below summarizes the changes in allowance for PCI
loan losses.

122 

Table of Contents   

Note 7:  Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets 

Depreciation and amortization expense for
premises and equipment was $1.3 billion, $861
million and $828 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.

Dispositions of premises and equipment, included
in noninterest expense, resulted in net losses of $22
million in 2009 and net gains of $22 million and $3
million in 2008 and 2007, respectively.

We have obligations under a number of
noncancelable operating leases for premises and
equipment. The terms of these leases are predominantly
up to 15 years, with the longest up to 78 years, and
many provide for periodic adjustment of rentals based
on changes in various economic indicators. Some leases
also include a renewal option. The following table
provides the future minimum payments under capital
leases and noncancelable operating leases, net of
sublease rentals, with terms greater than one year as
of December 31, 2009.

Operating lease rental expense
(predominantly for premises), net of rental income,
was $1.4 billion, $709 million and $673 million in
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

The components of other assets were:

(1) 
       
     Principal investments are recorded at fair value with realized and unrealized gains
(losses) included in net gains (losses) from equity investments in the income statement. 

(2) 
       
     Certain amounts in the above table have been reclassified to conform to the current
presentation. 

(3) 
       
     Consistent with regulatory reporting requirements, foreclosed assets include foreclosed real
estate securing GNMA loans. Both principal and interest for GNMA loans secured by the
foreclosed real estate are collectible because the GNMA loans are insured by the Federal
Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs. 

Income related to nonmarketable equity investments was:

123 

Table of Contents   

Note 8:  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities 

Involvement with SPEs  

In the normal course of business, we enter into
various types of on- and off-balance sheet transactions
with special purpose entities (SPEs), which are
corporations, trusts or partnerships that are
established for a limited purpose. Historically, the
majority of SPEs were formed in connection with
securitization transactions. In a securitization
transaction, assets from our balance sheet are
transferred to an SPE, which then issues to investors
various forms of interests in those assets and may also
enter into derivative transactions. In a securitization
transaction, we typically receive cash and/or other
interests in an SPE as proceeds for the assets we
transfer. Also, in certain transactions, we may retain
the right to service the transferred receivables and to
repurchase those receivables from the SPE if the
outstanding balance of the receivables falls to a level
where the cost exceeds the benefits of servicing such
receivables. In addition, we may purchase the right to
service loans in a SPE that were transferred to the SPE
by a third party.

In connection with our securitization
activities, we have various forms of ongoing
involvement with SPEs, which may include:

underwriting securities issued by SPEs and subsequently making markets in those
securities; 

providing liquidity facilities to support short-term obligations of SPEs issued to
third party investors; 

providing credit enhancement on securities issued by SPEs or market value guarantees of
assets held by SPEs through the use of letters of credit, financial guarantees, credit
default swaps and total return swaps; 

entering into other derivative contracts with SPEs; 

holding senior or subordinated interests in SPEs; 

acting as servicer or investment manager for SPEs; and 

providing administrative or trustee services to SPEs. 

The SPEs we use are primarily either qualifying SPEs
(QSPEs), which are not consolidated under existing
accounting guidance if the criteria described below are
met, or variable interest entities (VIEs). To qualify as
a QSPE, an entity must be passive and must adhere to
significant limitations on the types of assets and
derivative instruments it may own and the extent of
activities and decision making in which it may engage.
For example, a QSPE s activities are generally limited to
purchasing assets, passing along the cash flows of those
assets to its investors, servicing its assets and, in
certain transactions, issuing liabilities. Among other
restrictions on a QSPE s activities, a QSPE may not
actively manage its assets through discretionary sales or
modifications.

A VIE is an entity that has either a total equity
investment that is insufficient to permit the entity to
finance its activities without additional subordinated
financial support or whose equity investors lack the
characteristics of a controlling financial interest.
Under existing accounting guidance, a VIE is
consolidated by its primary beneficiary, which, under
current accounting standards, is the entity that,
through its variable interests, absorbs the majority of
a VIE s variability. A variable interest is a
contractual, ownership or other interest that changes
with changes in the fair value of the VIE s net assets.

124 

Table of Contents   

The classifications of assets and liabilities in our balance sheet associated with our
transactions with QSPEs and VIEs follow:

(1) 
       
     Reverse repurchase agreements of $20 million are included in other assets at December 31,
2009. These instruments were included in loans at December 31, 2008, in the amount of $349
million. The balance for securities at December 31, 2008, has been revised to reflect the removal of funds for which we  had no contractual support arrangements. 

(2) 
       
     Excludes certain debt securities related to loans serviced for the Federal National Mortgage
Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and Government National
Mortgage Association (GNMA). 

(3) 
       
     Excludes related allowance for loan losses. 

(4) 
       
     Balances related to QSPEs involving mortgage servicing rights
and accrued expenses and other liabilities have been revised to reflect
additionally identified QSPEs. 

The following disclosures regarding our
continuing involvement with QSPEs and unconsolidated
VIEs exclude entities where our only involvement is in
the form of: (1) investments in trading securities, (2)
investments in securities or loans underwritten by
third parties, (3) derivative counterparty for certain
derivatives such as interest rate swaps or cross
currency swaps that have customary terms, and (4)
administrative or trustee services. We determined these
forms of involvement are not significant due to the
temporary nature and size as well as our lack of
involvement in the design or operations of
unconsolidated VIEs or QSPEs. Also not included are
investments accounted for in accordance with the AICPA
Investment Company Audit Guide, investments accounted
for under the cost method and investments accounted for
under the equity method.

Transactions with QSPEs  

We use QSPEs to securitize consumer and CRE loans
and other types of financial assets, including student
loans, auto loans and municipal bonds. We typically
retain the servicing rights from these sales and may
continue to hold other beneficial interests in QSPEs.
We may also provide liquidity to investors in the
beneficial interests and credit enhancements in the
form of standby letters of credit. Through these
securitizations we may be exposed to liability under
limited amounts of recourse as well as standard
representations and warranties we make to purchasers
and issuers. The amount recorded for this liability is
included in other commitments and guarantees in the
following table.

125 

Table of Contents   

Note 8:  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities (   continued)  

A summary of our involvements with QSPEs follows:

(1) 
       
     Represents the remaining principal balance of assets held by QSPEs using the most current
information available. 

(2) 
       
     Excludes certain debt securities held related to loans serviced for FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA. 

(3) 
       
     Certain balances have been revised to reflect additionally
identified residential mortgage QSPEs, as well as to reflect removal
of commercial mortgage asset transfers that were subsequently
determined not to be transfers to QSPEs. 

(4) 
       
     Conforming residential mortgage loan securitizations are those that are guaranteed by GSEs.
Other commitments and guarantees include amounts related to loans sold to QSPEs that we may be
required to repurchase, or otherwise indemnify or reimburse the investor or insurer for losses
incurred, due to material breach of contractual representations and warranties. The maximum
exposure to loss for material breach of contractual representations and warranties represents
a stressed case estimate we utilize for determining stressed case
regulatory capital needs and has been revised as of December 31,
2008, to conform with the 2009 basis of determination. 

Maximum exposure to loss  represents the
carrying value of our involvement with off-balance
sheet QSPEs plus remaining undrawn liquidity and
lending commitments, notional amount of net written
derivative contracts, and generally the notional
amount of, or stressed loss estimate for, other
commitments and guarantees. Maximum exposure to loss
is a required disclosure under GAAP and, as presented

in the preceding table, represents estimated loss that
would be incurred under severe, hypothetical
circumstances, for which we believe the possibility of
occurrence is extremely remote, such as where the value
of our interests and any associated collateral declines
to zero, without any consideration of recovery or
offset from any economic hedges. Accordingly, this
required disclosure is not an indication of expected
loss.

126 

Table of Contents   

We recognized net gains of $1 million from
sales of financial assets in securitizations in
2009 (none in 2008).

Additionally, we had the following cash flows
with our securitization trusts.

(1) 
       
     Represents cash flow data for all loans securitized in the period presented. 

For securitizations completed in 2009 and
2008, we used the following weighted-average assumptions to determine
the fair value of

residential mortgage servicing rights and other
interests held at the date of securitization.

(1) 
       
     Constant prepayment rate. 

Key economic assumptions and the
sensitivity of the current fair value to immediate
adverse changes in those assumptions at December
31, 2009, for residential and

commercial mortgage servicing rights, and other
interests held related primarily to residential
mortgage loan securitizations are presented in the
following table.

(1) 
       
     Excludes securities retained in securitizations issued through GSEs such as FNMA, FHLMC and
GNMA because we do not believe the value of these securities would be materially affected by
the adverse changes in assumptions noted in the table. These GSE securities and other
interests held presented in this table are included in debt and equity interests in our
disclosure of our involvements with QSPEs shown on page 126. 

(2) 
       
     Subordinated interests include only those bonds whose credit rating was below AAA by a major
rating agency at issuance. 

(3) 
       
     Senior interests include only those bonds whose credit rating
was AAA by a major rating agency at issuance. 

127 

Table of Contents   

Note 8:  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities (   continued)  

The sensitivities in the table above are
hypothetical and caution should be exercised when
relying on this data. Changes in fair value based on
variations in assumptions generally cannot be
extrapolated because the relationship of the change in
the assumption to the change in fair value may not be
linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular
assumption on the fair value of the other interests
held is

calculated independently without changing any other
assumptions. In reality, changes in one factor may
result in changes in others (for example, changes in
prepayment speed estimates could result in changes in
the discount rates), which might magnify or
counteract the sensitivities.

The table below presents information about the
principal balances of owned and securitized loans.

(1) 
       
     Represents loans in the balance sheet or that have been securitized and includes
residential mortgages sold to FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA and securitizations where servicing is our
only form of continuing involvement. 

(2) 
       
     Delinquent loans are 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest as well as
nonaccrual loans. 

(3) 
       
     Delinquent loans and net charge-offs exclude loans sold to FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA. We continue
to service the loans and would only experience a loss if required to repurchase a delinquent
loan due to a breach in original representations and warranties associated with our
underwriting standards. 

Transactions with VIEs  

Our transactions with VIEs include
securitization, investment and financing activities
involving CDOs backed by asset-backed and CRE
securities, collateralized loan obligations (CLOs)
backed by corporate loans or bonds, and other types of
structured financing. We have various forms of
involvement

with VIEs, including holding senior or subordinated
interests, entering into liquidity arrangements, credit
default swaps and other derivative contracts. These
involvements with unconsolidated VIEs are recorded on
our balance sheet primarily in trading assets,
securities available for sale, loans, MSRs, other
assets and other liabilities, as appropriate.

128 

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes our involvement with unconsolidated VIEs.

(1) 
       
     Represents the remaining principal balance of assets held by unconsolidated VIEs using the
most current information available. For VIEs that obtain exposure to assets synthetically
through derivative instruments, the remaining notional amount of the derivative is included in
the asset balance. 

(2) 
       
     The balance of total VIE assets for VIEs involving CDOs has
been revised to reflect additionally identified CDOs. 

(3) 
       
     Asset-based commercial paper. 

(4) 
       
     Includes only those money market mutual funds to which the Company had outstanding
contractual support agreements in place. The balance has been revised to exclude certain funds
because the support arrangements had lapsed or settled and the Company is not obligated to
support such funds. 

(5) 
       
     Contains investments in auction rate securities issued by VIEs that we do not sponsor and,
accordingly, are unable to obtain the total assets of the entity. 

129 

Table of Contents   

Note 8:  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities (   continued)  

Maximum exposure to loss  represents the
carrying value of our involvement with off-balance
sheet (unconsolidated) VIEs plus remaining undrawn
liquidity and lending commitments, notional amount of
net written derivative contracts, and generally the
notional amount of, or stressed loss estimate for,
other commitments and guarantees. Maximum exposure to
loss is a required disclosure under GAAP and, as
presented in the preceding table, represents estimated
loss that would be incurred under severe, hypothetical
circumstances, for which we believe the possibility of
occurrence is extremely remote, such as where the value
of our interests and any associated collateral declines
to zero, without any consideration of recovery or
offset from any economic hedges. Accordingly, this
required disclosure is not an indication of expected
loss.

COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (CDOs)  A CDO
is a securitization where an SPE purchases a pool of
assets consisting of asset-backed securities and issues
multiple tranches of equity or notes to investors. In
some transactions a portion of the assets are obtained
synthetically through the use of derivatives such as
credit default swaps or total return swaps. Prior to
2008, we engaged in the structuring of CDOs on behalf
of third party asset managers who would select and
manage the assets for the CDO. Typically, the asset
manager has some discretion to manage the sale of
assets of, or derivatives used by the CDO.

In addition to our role as arranger we may have
other forms of involvement with these transactions.
Such involvement may include acting as liquidity
provider, derivative counterparty, secondary market
maker or investor. For certain transactions, we may
also act as the collateral manager or servicer. We
receive fees in connection with our role as collateral
manager or servicer.

We assess whether we are the primary beneficiary
of CDOs at the inception of the transactions based on
our expectation of the variability associated with our
continuing involvement. Subsequently, we monitor our
ongoing involvement in these transactions to determine
if a more frequent assessment of variability is
necessary. Variability in these transactions may be
created by credit risk, market risk, interest rate
risk or liquidity risk associated with the CDO s
assets. Our assessment of the variability is performed
qualitatively because our continuing involvement is
typically senior in priority to the third party
investors in transactions. In most cases, we are not
the primary beneficiary of these transactions because
we do not retain the subordinate interests in these
transactions and, accordingly, do not absorb the
majority of the variability.

COLLATERALIZED LOAN OBLIGATIONS (CLOs)  A CLO
is a securitization where an SPE purchases a pool of
assets consisting of loans and issues multiple tranches
of equity or notes to investors. Generally, CLOs are
structured on behalf of a third party asset manager
that typically selects and manages the assets for the
term of the CLO. Typically, the asset manager has some
discretion to manage the sale of assets of the CLO.

Prior to the securitization, we may provide all or
substantially all of the warehouse financing to the
asset manager. The asset manager uses this financing to
purchase the assets into a bankruptcy remote SPE during
the warehouse period. At the completion of the
warehouse period, the assets are sold to the CLO and
the warehouse financing is
repaid with the proceeds received from the
securitization s investors. The warehousing period is
generally less than 12 months in duration. In the event
the securitization does not take place, the assets in
the warehouse are liquidated. We consolidate the
warehouse SPEs when we are the primary beneficiary. We
are the primary beneficiary when we provide
substantially all of the financing and therefore absorb
the majority of the variability. Sometimes we have loss
sharing arrangements whereby a third party asset
manager agrees to absorb the credit and market risk
during the warehousing period or upon liquidation of
the collateral in the event a securitization does not
take place. In those circumstances we do not
consolidate the warehouse SPE because the third party
asset manager absorbs the majority of the variability
through the loss sharing arrangement.

In addition to our role as arranger and warehouse
financing provider, we may have other forms of
involvement with these transactions. Such involvement
may include acting as underwriter, derivative
counterparty, secondary market maker or investor. For
certain transactions, we may also act as the servicer,
for which we receive fees in connection with that role.
We also earn fees for arranging these transactions and
distributing the securities.

We assess whether we are the primary beneficiary
of CLOs at inception of the transactions based on our
expectation of the variability associated with our
continuing involvement. Subsequently, we monitor our
ongoing involvement in these transactions to determine
if a more frequent assessment of variability is
necessary. Variability in these transactions may be
created by credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk
or liquidity risk associated with the CLO s assets. Our
assessment of the variability is performed
qualitatively because our continuing involvement is
typically senior in priority to the third party
investors in transactions. In most cases, we are not
the primary beneficiary of these transactions because
we do not retain the subordinate interests in these
transactions and, accordingly, do not absorb the majority of the variability.

MULTI-SELLER COMMERCIAL PAPER CONDUIT  We
administer a multi-seller ABCP conduit that finances
certain client transactions. We acquired the
relationship with this conduit in the Wachovia merger.
This conduit is a bankruptcy remote entity that makes
loans to, or purchases certificated interests,
generally from SPEs, established by our clients
(sellers) and which are secured by pools of financial
assets. The conduit funds itself through the issuance
of highly rated commercial paper to third party
investors. The primary source of repayment of the
commercial paper is the cash flows from the conduit s
assets or the re-issuance of commercial paper upon
maturity. The conduit s assets are structured with
deal-specific credit enhancements generally in the form
of overcollateralization

130 

Table of Contents   

provided by the seller, but also may include
subordinated interests, cash reserve accounts, third
party credit support facilities and excess spread
capture. The weighted-average

life of the conduit s assets was 2.5 years at December
31, 2009, and 3.0 years at December 31, 2008,
respectively.

The composition of the conduit s assets follows:

(1)    Certain
December 31, 2008, percentages have been revised to conform with the
December 31, 2009, classification of certain assets.

The table below summarizes the
weighted-average credit rating equivalents of the
conduit s assets.

These ratings are based on internal rating criteria.

The timely repayment of the commercial paper
is further supported by asset-specific liquidity
facilities in the form of liquidity asset purchase
agreements that we provide. Each facility is equal to
102% of the conduit s funding commitment to a client.
The aggregate amount of liquidity must be equal to or
greater than all the commercial paper issued by the
conduit. At the discretion of the administrator, we may
be required to purchase assets from the conduit at par
value plus accrued interest or discount on the related
commercial paper, including situations where the
conduit is unable to issue commercial paper. Par value
may be different from fair value.

We receive fees in connection with our role as
administrator and liquidity provider. We may also
receive fees related to the structuring of the
conduit s transactions.

The weighted average life of the commercial paper was 22.5 days at December 31, 2009, and the
average yield on the commercial paper was 0.24%. The ability of the conduit to issue commercial
paper is a function of general market conditions and the credit rating of the liquidity provider.
At December 31, 2009, we did not hold any of the commercial paper issued by the conduit. 

The
conduit has issued a subordinated note to a third party investor. The subordinated note is designed
to absorb the expected variability associated with the credit risk in the conduit s assets as well
as assets that may be or were funded by us as a result of a purchase under the provisions of a
specific liquidity asset purchase agreement. Actual credit losses incurred on the conduit s assets
or assets purchased under the liquidity facilities are absorbed first by the subordinated note
prior to any allocation to us as the liquidity provider.

We increased the face amount of our subordinated note
to $60 million in March 2009. In fourth quarter 2009,
the subordinated note absorbed $16 million of losses.
At December 31, 2009, the available balance of the
subordinated note was $44 million. The subordinated
note matures in 2017.

At least quarterly, or more often if circumstances
dictate, we assess whether we are the primary
beneficiary of the conduit based on our expectation of
the variability associated with our liquidity
facilities and administrative fee arrangement. Such
circumstances may include changes to the terms of the
conduit s assets, internal credit grades, outstanding
amounts under each facility or the purchase of the
conduit s commercial paper. We assess variability using
a quantitative expected loss model. The key inputs to
the model include internally generated risk ratings
that are mapped to third party rating agency
loss-given-default assumptions. We do not consolidate
the conduit because our expected loss model indicates
that the holder of the subordinated note absorbs the
majority of the variability of the conduit s assets.

ASSET-BASED FINANCE STRUCTURES  We engage in
various forms of structured finance arrangements with
VIEs that are collateralized by various asset classes
including energy contracts, auto and other
transportation leases, intellectual property,
equipment and general corporate credit. We typically
provide senior financing, and may act as an interest
rate swap or commodity derivative counterparty when
necessary. In most cases, we are not the primary
beneficiary of these structures because we do not
retain a majority of the variability in these
transactions.

131 

Table of Contents   

Note 8:  Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities (   continued)  

For example, we had investments in
asset-backed securities that were collateralized by
auto leases or loans and cash reserves. These
fixed-rate securities are underwritten by us and have
been structured as single-tranche, fully amortizing,
unrated bonds that are equivalent to investment-grade
securities due to their significant
overcollateralization. The securities are issued by
SPEs that have been formed by third party auto
financing institutions primarily because they require a
source of liquidity to fund ongoing vehicle sales
operations.

TAX CREDIT STRUCTURES  We co-sponsor and make
investments in affordable housing and sustainable
energy projects that are designed to generate a return
primarily through the realization of federal tax
credits. In some instances, our investments in these
structures may require that we fund future capital
commitments at the discretion of the project sponsors.
While the size of our investment in a single entity may
at times exceed 50% of the outstanding equity
interests, we do not consolidate these structures due
to performance guarantees provided by the project
sponsors giving them a majority of the variability.

INVESTMENT FUNDS  At December 31, 2009, we had
investments of $1.3 billion and lending arrangements of
$20 million with certain funds managed by one of our
majority owned subsidiaries compared with investments
of $2.1 billion and lending arrangements of $349
million at December 31, 2008. In addition, we also
provide a default protection agreement to a third party
lender to one of these funds. Our involvements in these
funds are either senior or of equal priority to third
party investors. We do not consolidate the investment
funds because we do not absorb the majority of the
expected future variability associated with the funds 
assets, including variability associated with credit,
interest rate and liquidity risks.

We are also a passive investor in various
investment funds that invest directly in private
equity and mezzanine securities as well as funds
sponsored by select private equity and venture capital
groups. We also invest in hedge funds on behalf of
clients. In these transactions, we use various
derivative contracts that are designed to provide our
clients with the returns of the underlying hedge fund
investments. We do not consolidate these funds because
we do not hold a majority of the subordinate interests
in these funds.

MONEY MARKET FUNDS  In 2008 we entered into a
capital support agreement for up to $130 million
related to an investment in a structured investment
vehicle (SIV) held by AAA-rated money market funds we
sponsor in order to maintain a AAA credit rating and a
NAV of $1.00 for the funds. In third quarter 2008, we
fulfilled our obligation under this agreement by
purchasing the SIV investment from the funds. In third
quarter 2009, we purchased additional SIV investments
from the AAA-rated money market funds. At December 31,
2009, we had no outstanding support agreements. We
recorded a loss of $27 million in 2009 in connection
with support provided to our money market/collective
funds. At December 31, 2009, the SIV investments were
recorded as debt securities in our securities
available-for-sale portfolio. We do not consolidate
these funds because we do not absorb the majority of

the expected future variability associated with the
fund s assets. We are generally not responsible for
investment losses incurred by funds we sponsor, and we
do not have a contractual or implicit obligation to
indemnify such losses or provide additional support to
the funds. While we previously elected to enter into
capital support agreements for the funds, we are not
obligated and may elect not to provide support to these
funds or other funds we sponsor in the future.

CREDIT-LINKED NOTE STRUCTURES  We enter into
credit-linked note structures for two separate
purposes. First and primarily, we structure
transactions for clients designed to provide investors
with specified returns based on the returns of an
underlying security, loan or index. Second, in certain
situations, we also use credit-linked note structures
to reduce risk-weighted assets for determining
regulatory capital ratios by structuring similar
transactions that are indexed to the returns of a pool
of underlying loans that we own. These transactions
reduce our risk-weighted assets because they transfer a
portion of the credit risk in the indexed pool of loans
to the holders of the credit-linked notes. Both of
these types of transactions result in the issuance of
credit-linked notes and typically involve a bankruptcy
remote SPE that synthetically obtains exposure to the
underlying loans through a derivative instrument such
as a written credit default swap or total return swap.
The SPE issues notes to investors based on the
referenced underlying securities or loans. Proceeds
received from the issuance of these notes are usually
invested in investment grade financial assets. We are
typically the derivative counterparty to these
transactions and administrator responsible for
investing the note proceeds. We do not consolidate
these SPEs because we typically do not hold any of the
notes that they issue.

OTHER TRANSACTIONS WITH VIES  In August 2008, Wachovia reached an agreement to purchase at
par auction rate securities (ARS) that were sold to third party investors by two of its
subsidiaries. ARS are debt instruments with long-term maturities, but which reprice more
frequently. Certain of these securities were issued by VIEs. At December 31, 2009, we held in our
securities available-for-sale portfolio $3.2 billion of ARS issued by VIEs that we redeemed
pursuant to this agreement, compared with $3.7 billion at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2008,
we had a liability in our balance sheet of $91 million for additional losses on anticipated future
redemptions of ARS issued by VIEs. We did not have a liability related to this event at December
31, 2009, since all remaining ARS issued by VIEs subject to the agreement were redeemed.

On November 18, 2009, we reached agreements to purchase additional ARS from eligible investors who
bought ARS through one of three of our broker-dealer subsidiaries. At December 31, 2009, we had a
liability in our balance sheet of $261 million for losses on anticipated future redemptions of ARS
associated with these agreements. As of December 31, 2009, we had not redeemed a substantial amount
of these securities. Were we to redeem all ARS issued by VIEs that are subject to the agreement,
our estimated maximum exposure to loss would be $1.6 billion; however, certain of these securities
may be repaid in full by the issuer prior to redemption.

132 

Table of Contents   

We do not consolidate the VIEs that issued the ARS because we do not expect to absorb the
majority of the expected future variability associated with assets of the VIEs.

TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES  In addition to the involvements disclosed in the following
table, we had $19.0 billion of debt financing through the issuance of trust preferred securities at
December 31, 2009. In these transactions, VIEs that we wholly own issue preferred equity or debt
securities to third party investors. All of the proceeds of the issuance are invested in debt
securities that we issue to the VIEs. In certain instances, we may provide liquidity to third party
investors that purchase long-term securities that reprice frequently issued by VIEs.

The VIEs  operations and cash flows relate only to the issuance, administration and repayment of
the securities held by third parties. We do not consolidate these VIEs because the sole assets of
the VIEs are receivables from us. This is the case even though we own all of the voting equity
shares of the VIEs, have fully guaranteed the obligations of the VIEs and may have the right to
redeem the third party securities under certain circumstances. We report the debt securities that
we issue to the VIEs as long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheet.

A summary of our transactions with VIEs accounted for as secured borrowings and involvements with
consolidated VIEs follows:

(1) 
       
     Amounts exclude loan loss reserves, and total assets may differ from consolidated assets
due to the different measurement methods used depending on classification of the assets. 

We have raised financing through the securitization of certain financial assets in
transactions with VIEs accounted for as secured borrowings. We also consolidate VIEs where we are
the primary beneficiary. In certain transactions we provide contractual support in the form of
limited recourse

and liquidity to facilitate the remarketing of short-term securities issued to third party
investors. Other than this limited contractual support, the assets of the VIEs are the sole source
of repayment of the securities held by third parties.

133 

Table of Contents   

Note 9:     Mortgage Banking Activities 

Mortgage banking activities, included in the Community Banking and Wholesale Banking
operating segments, consist of residential and commercial mortgage originations and servicing.

The changes in residential MSRs measured using the fair value method were:

(1) 
       
     The 2009 amount reflects refinements to initial December 31, 2008, Wachovia purchase
accounting adjustments. 

(2) 
       
     Principally reflects changes in discount rates and prepayment speed assumptions, mostly due to
changes in interest rates. 

(3) 
       
     Represents changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows over time. 

The changes in amortized commercial MSRs were:

(1) 
       
     Based on December 31, 2009, assumptions, the weighted-average amortization period for MSRs
added during the twelve months of 2009 was approximately 18.1 years. 

(2) 
       
     The 2009 amount reflects refinements to initial December 31, 2008, Wachovia purchase accounting
adjustments. 

(3) 
       
     There was no valuation allowance recorded for the periods presented. 
Commercial MSRs are evaluated for impairment purposes by the following asset classes: agency and
non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities (MBS), and loans. 

We present the components of our managed servicing portfolio in the table below at unpaid
principal balance for loans serviced and subserviced for others and at book value for owned loans
serviced.

134 

Table of Contents   

The components of mortgage banking noninterest income were:

(1) 
       
     Principally reflects changes in discount rates and prepayment speed assumptions, mostly due
to changes in interest rates. 

(2) 
       
     Represents changes due to collection/realization of expected cash
flows over time. 

(3) 
       
     Represents results from free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the risk of
changes in fair value of MSRs. See Note 15   Free-Standing Derivatives in this Report for
additional discussion and detail. 

Servicing fees include certain unreimbursed direct servicing obligations primarily associated
with workout activities.

In addition, servicing fees and all other in the table above included:

135 

Table of Contents   

Note 10:      Intangible Assets 

The gross carrying value of intangible assets and accumulated amortization was:

(1) 
       
     See Note 9 in this Report for additional information on MSRs. 

The following table provides the current year and estimated future amortization expense for
amortized intangible assets.

We based our projections of amortization expense shown above on existing asset balances at
December 31, 2009. Future amortization expense may vary from these projections.

For our goodwill impairment analysis, we allocate all of the goodwill to the individual operating
segments. As a result of the combination of Wells Fargo and Wachovia, management realigned its
business segments into the following three lines of business: Community Banking; Wholesale Banking;
and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. As part of this realignment, we updated our reporting units.
We identify reporting units that are one level below an operating segment (referred to as a
component), and distinguish these reporting units based on

how the segments and components are managed, taking into consideration the economic
characteristics, nature of the products and customers of the components. We allocate goodwill to
reporting units based on relative fair value, using certain performance metrics. We have revised
prior period information to reflect this realignment. See Note 23 in this Report for further
information on management reporting.

The following table shows the allocation of goodwill to our operating segments for purposes of
goodwill impairment testing. The additions in 2009 predominantly relate to goodwill recorded in
connection with refinements to our initial acquisition date purchase accounting.

136 

Table of Contents   

Note 11:      Deposits 

Time certificates of deposit (CDs) and other time deposits issued by domestic offices totaled
$117.0 billion and $210.5 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Substantially all of
these deposits were interest bearing. The contractual maturities of these deposits follow.

Of these deposits, the amount of time deposits with a denomination of $100,000 or more was
$43.7 billion and $90.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The contractual
maturities of these deposits follow.

Time CDs and other time deposits issued by foreign offices with a denomination of $100,000 or
more represent a major portion of all of our foreign deposit liabilities of $60.0 billion and $40.9
billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Demand deposit overdrafts of $667 million and $1.1 billion were included as loan balances at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Note 12:      Short-Term Borrowings 

The table below shows selected information for short-term borrowings, which generally mature
in less than 30 days.

At December 31, 2009, we had $500 million available in lines of credit. These financing
arrangements require the

maintenance of compensating balances or payment of fees, which were not material.

N/A   Not applicable. 
(1) Highest month-end balance in each of the last three years was February 2009, August 2008 and December 2007. 
(2) Highest month-end balance in each of the last three years was February 2009, December 2008 and September 2007.

137 

Table of Contents   

Note 13:      Long-Term Debt 

Following is a summary of our long-term debt based on original maturity (reflecting
unamortized debt discounts

and premiums, and purchase accounting adjustments for debt assumed in the Wachovia acquisition,
where applicable):

(continued
on the following page)

138 

Table of Contents   

(continued from previous page) 

(1) 
       
     We entered into interest rate swap agreements for most of the aggregate balance of these
notes, whereby we receive fixed-rate interest payments approximately equal to interest on the notes
and make interest payments based on an average one-month, three-month or six-month London Interbank
Offered Rate (LIBOR). 

(2) 
       
     On December 10, 2008, Wells Fargo issued $3 billion of 3% fixed senior
unsecured notes and $3 billion of floating senior unsecured notes both maturing on December 9,
2011. On March 30, 2009, Wells Fargo issued $1.75 billion of 2.125% fixed senior unsecured notes
and $1.75 billion of floating senior unsecured notes both maturing on June 15, 2012. These notes
are guaranteed under the FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program and are backed by the full
faith and credit of the United States. 

(3) 
       
     We entered into interest rate swap agreements for a
portion of the aggregate balance of these notes, whereby we receive variable-rate interest payments
and make interest payments based on a fixed rate. 

(4) 
       
     The extendible notes are floating-rate securities with an initial maturity of 13 or 24 months,
which can be extended on a rolling monthly or quarterly basis, respectively, to a final maturity of
five years at the investor s option. 

(5) 
       
     Consists of long-term notes where the performance of the note is linked to an embedded equity,
commodity, or currency index, or basket of indices accounted for separately from the note as a
free-standing derivative. For information on embedded derivatives, see Note 15   Free-standing
derivatives in this Report. 

(6) 
       
     On December 5, 2006, Wells Fargo Capital X issued 5.95% Capital Securities and used the
proceeds to purchase from the Parent 5.95% Capital Efficient Notes (the Notes) due 2086 (scheduled
maturity 2036). When it issued the Notes, the Parent entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant
(the Covenant) in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Parent s 5.625% Junior
Subordinated Debentures due 2034 that it will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and that none of its
subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the Notes or the Capital Securities on or before December
1, 2066, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the
issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth
in the Covenant. For more information, refer to the Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to
the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 5, 2006. 

(7) 
       
     On May 25, 2007, Wells Fargo Capital XI issued 6.25% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities
(Enhanced TRUPS   ) (the 2007 Capital Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from the
Parent 6.25% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due 2067 (the 2007 Notes). When it
issued the 2007 Notes, the Parent entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the 2007 Covenant)
in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Parent s 5.625% Junior Subordinated
Debentures due 2034 that it will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries
will purchase, any part of the 2007 Notes or the 2007 Capital Securities on or before June 15,
2057, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the
issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth
in the 2007 Covenant. For more information, refer to the 2007 Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit
99.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 25, 2007. 

(8) 
       
     On March 12, 2008, Wells Fargo Capital XII issued 7.875% Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities
(Enhanced TRUPS   ) (the First 2008 Capital Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase
from the Parent 7.875% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due 2068 (the First 2008
Notes). When it issued the First 2008 Notes, the Parent entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant
(the First 2008 Covenant) in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Parent s 5.375%
Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2035 (the Covered Debt) that it will not repay, redeem or
repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the First 2008 Notes or
the
First 2008 Capital Securities on or before March 15, 2048, unless the repayment, redemption or
repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities and
pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the First 2008 Covenant. For more
information, refer to the First 2008 Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 12, 2008. 

139 

Table of Contents   

Note 13:      Long-Term Debt (   continued)  

(9) 
       
     On May 19, 2008, Wells Fargo Capital XIII issued 7.70% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal
Preferred Purchase Securities (PPS) (the Second 2008 Capital Securities). The proceeds were used to
purchase Remarketable 7.50% Junior Subordinated Notes maturing in 2044 (the Second 2008 Notes) from
the Parent. In connection with the issuance of the Second 2008 Capital Securities, the Trust and
the Parent entered into a forward stock purchase contract that obligates the Trust to purchase the
Parent s Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (the Series A Preferred Stock) and
obligates the Parent to make payments to the Trust of 0.20% per annum through the stock purchase
date, expected to be March 26, 2013 (the Series A Stock Purchase Date). Prior to the Series A Stock
Purchase Date, the Trust is required to remarket and sell the Second 2008 Notes to third party
investors to generate cash proceeds to satisfy its obligation to purchase the Series A Preferred
Stock. When it issued the Second 2008 Notes, the Parent entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant
(the Second 2008 Covenant) in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Covered Debt
that, after the date it notifies the holders of the Covered Debt of the Second 2008 Covenant, it
will not repay, redeem or repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, (i) any part
of the Second 2008 Notes prior to the Series A Stock Purchase Date or (ii) any part of the Second
2008 Capital Securities or the Series A Preferred Stock prior to the date that is 10 years after
the Series A Stock Purchase Date, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the
net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms
and conditions set forth in the Second 2008 Covenant. For more information, refer to the Second
2008 Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
May 19, 2008. 

(10) 
       
     On September 10, 2008, Wells Fargo Capital XV issued 9.75% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal PPS
(the Third 2008 Capital Securities). The proceeds were used to purchase Remarketable 9.25% Junior
Subordinated Notes maturing in 2044 (the Third 2008 Notes) from the Parent. In connection with the
issuance of the Third 2008 Capital Securities, the Trust and the Parent entered into a forward
stock purchase contract that obligates the Trust to purchase the Parent s Noncumulative Perpetual
Preferred Stock, Series B (the Series B Preferred Stock) and obligates the Parent to make payments
to the Trust of 0.50% per annum through the stock purchase date, expected to be September 26, 2013
(the Series B Stock Purchase Date). Prior to the Series B Stock Purchase Date, the Trust is
required to remarket and sell the Third 2008 Notes to third party investors to generate cash
proceeds to satisfy its obligation to purchase the Series B Preferred Stock. When it issued the
Third 2008 Notes, the Parent entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the Third 2008 Covenant)
in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Covered Debt that, after the date it
notifies the holders of the Covered Debt of the Third 2008 Covenant, it will not repay, redeem or
repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, (i) any part of the Third 2008 Notes
prior to the Series B Stock Purchase Date or (ii) any part of the Third 2008 Capital Securities or
the Series B Preferred Stock prior to the date that is 10 years after the Series B Stock Purchase
Date, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the
issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth
in the Third 2008 Covenant. For more information, refer to the Third 2008 Covenant, which was filed
as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 10, 2008. 

(11) 
       
     On February 15, 2007, Wachovia Capital Trust IV issued 6.375% Trust Preferred Securities (the
First Wachovia Trust Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from Wachovia 6.375% Extendible
Long-Term Subordinated Notes (the First Wachovia Notes). When it issued the First Wachovia Notes,
Wachovia entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the First Wachovia Covenant) in which it
agreed for the benefit of the holders of Wachovia s Floating-Rate Junior Subordinated Deferrable
Interest Debentures due January 15, 2027, (the Wachovia Covered Debt) that it will not repay,
redeem or repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the First
Wachovia Notes or the First Wachovia Trust Securities on or after the scheduled maturity date of
the First Wachovia Notes and prior to the date that is 20 years prior to the final repayment date
of the First Wachovia Notes, unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net
cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and
conditions set forth in the First Wachovia Covenant. In connection with the Wachovia acquisition,
the Parent assumed all of Wachovia s obligations under the First Wachovia Covenant. For more
information, refer to the First Wachovia Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Wachovia s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 15, 2007. 

(12) 
       
     On May 8, 2007, Wachovia Capital Trust IX issued 6.375% Trust Preferred Securities (the Second
Wachovia Trust Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from
Wachovia 6.375% Extendible Long-Term
Subordinated Notes (the Second Wachovia Notes). When it issued the Second Wachovia Notes,
Wachovia entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the Second Wachovia Covenant) in which it
agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Wachovia Covered Debt that it will not repay, redeem
or repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the Second Wachovia
Notes or the Second Wachovia Trust Securities (i) on or after the earlier of the date that is 30
years prior to the final repayment date of the Second Wachovia Notes and the scheduled maturity
date of the Second Wachovia Notes and (ii) prior to the later of the date that is 20 years prior to
the final repayment date of the Second Wachovia Notes and June 15, 2057, unless the repayment,
redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified
securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the Second Wachovia
Covenant. In connection with the Wachovia acquisition, the Parent assumed all of Wachovia s
obligations under the Second Wachovia Covenant. For more information, refer to the Second Wachovia
Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Wachovia s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 8,
2007. 

(13) 
       
     On November 21, 2007, Wachovia Capital Trust X issued 7.85% Trust Preferred Securities (the
Third Wachovia Trust Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from Wachovia 7.85% Extendible
Long-Term Subordinated Notes (the Third Wachovia Notes). When it issued the Third Wachovia Notes,
Wachovia entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the Third Wachovia Covenant) in which it
agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Wachovia Covered Debt that it will not repay, redeem
or repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase, any part of the Third Wachovia
Notes or the Third Wachovia Trust Securities (i) on or after the earlier of the date that is 30
years prior to the final repayment date of the Third Wachovia Notes and the scheduled maturity date
of the Third Wachovia Notes and (ii) prior to the later of the date that is 20 years prior to the
final repayment date of the Third Wachovia Notes and December 15, 2057, unless the repayment,
redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified
securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the Third Wachovia Covenant.
In connection with the Wachovia acquisition, the Parent assumed all of Wachovia s obligations under
the Third Wachovia Covenant. For more information, refer to the Third Wachovia Covenant, which was
filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Wachovia s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 21, 2007. 

(14) 
       
     On February 1, 2006, Wachovia Capital Trust III issued 5.80% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Wachovia
Income Trust Securities (the Fourth Wachovia Trust Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase
from Wachovia Remarketable Junior Subordinated Notes due 2042 (the Fourth Wachovia Notes). In
connection with the issuance of the Fourth Wachovia Trust Securities, the Trust and Wachovia
entered into a forward stock purchase contract that obligates the Trust to purchase Wachovia s
Noncumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series I (the Series I Preferred Stock) and
obligates Wachovia to make payments to the Trust of 0.60% per annum through the stock purchase
date, expected to be March 15, 2011 (the Series I Stock Purchase Date). Prior to the Series I Stock
Purchase Date, the Trust is required to remarket and sell the Fourth Wachovia Notes to third party
investors to generate cash proceeds to satisfy its obligation to purchase the Series I Preferred
Stock. When it issued the Fourth Wachovia Notes, Wachovia entered into a Declaration of Covenant
(the Fourth Wachovia Covenant) in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of the Wachovia
Covered Debt that it will repurchase the Fourth Wachovia Trust Securities or redeem or repurchase
shares of the Series I Preferred Stock only if and to the extent that the total redemption or
repurchase price is equal to or less than the net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain
qualified securities as described in the Fourth Wachovia Covenant. In connection with the Wachovia
acquisition, the Parent assumed all of Wachovia s obligations under the Fourth Wachovia Covenant.
For more information, refer to the Fourth Wachovia Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to
Wachovia s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 1, 2006. 

(15) 
       
     Represents  junior subordinated debentures held by unconsolidated wholly-owned trusts formed for the sole
purpose of issuing trust preferred securities. 

(16) 
       
     At December 31, 2009, bank notes of $3.8 billion had floating rates of interest ranging from
0.0006% to 7.6%, and $593 million of the notes had fixed rates of interest ranging from 1.00% to
5.00%. 

140 

Table of Contents   

We participated in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp-oration s (FDIC) Temporary Liquidity
Guarantee Program (TLGP). The TLGP had two components: the Debt Guarantee Program, which provided a
temporary guarantee of newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by eligible entities; and the
Transaction Account Guarantee Program, which provided a temporary unlimited guarantee of funds in
noninterest-bearing transaction accounts at FDIC-insured institutions. The Debt Guarantee Program
expired on October 31, 2009, and we opted out of the temporary unlimited guarantee of funds
effective December 31, 2009.

The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt obligations (based on final maturity dates) as of
December 31, 2009, follow.

The interest rates on floating-rate notes are determined periodically by formulas based on
certain money market rates, subject, on certain notes, to minimum or maximum interest rates.

As part of our long-term and short-term borrowing arrangements, we are subject to various financial
and operational covenants. Some of the agreements under which debt has been issued have provisions
that may limit the merger or sale of certain subsidiary banks and the issuance of capital stock or
convertible securities by certain subsidiary banks. At December 31, 2009, we were in compliance
with all the covenants.

Note 14:      Guarantees and Legal Actions 

Guarantees   
Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us to make payments to a guaranteed party
based on an event or a change in an underlying asset, liability, rate or index. Guarantees are
generally in the form of standby letters of credit, securities lending and other indemnifications,
liquidity

agreements, written put options, recourse obligations, residual value guarantees, and contingent
consideration. The following table shows carrying value, maximum exposure to loss on our guarantees
and the amount with a higher risk of performance.

(1) 
       
     Certain of these agreements included in this table are related to off-balance sheet
entities and, accordingly, are also disclosed in Note 8 in this Report.  

(2) 
       
     Written put options,
which are in the form of derivatives, are also included in the derivative disclosures in Note 15 in
this Report. 

Maximum exposure to loss  and  Non-investment grade  are required disclosures under GAAP.
Non-investment grade represents those guarantees on which we have a higher risk of being required
to perform under the terms of the guarantee. If the underlying assets
under the guarantee are non-investment grade (that is, an external rating that is below investment grade or an internal credit
default grade that is equivalent to a below investment grade external rating), we consider the risk
of performance to be high.

Internal credit default grades are determined based upon the same credit policies that we use to
evaluate the risk of payment or performance when making loans and other extensions of credit. These
credit policies are more fully described in Note 6 in this Report.

Maximum exposure to loss represents the estimated loss that would be incurred under an assumed
hypothetical circumstance, despite what we believe is its extremely remote possibility, where the
value of our interests and any associated

141 

Table of Contents   

Note 14:    Guarantees and Legal Actions (   continued)  

collateral declines to zero, without
any consideration of recovery or offset from any economic hedges. Accordingly, this required
disclosure is not an indication of expected loss. We believe the carrying value, which is either
fair value or cost adjusted for incurred credit losses, is more representative of our exposure to
loss than maximum exposure to loss.

We issue standby letters of credit, which include performance and financial guarantees, for
customers in connection with contracts between our customers and third parties. Standby letters of
credit are agreements where we are obligated to make payment to a third party on behalf of a
customer in the event the customer fails to meet their contractual obligations. We consider the
credit risk in standby letters of credit and commercial and similar letters of credit in
determining the allowance for credit losses.

As a securities lending agent, we loan client securities, on a fully collateralized basis, to third
party borrowers. We indemnify our clients against borrower default of a return of those securities
and, in certain cases, against collateral losses. We support these guarantees with collateral,
generally in the form of cash or highly liquid securities that is marked to market daily. There was
$20.7 billion at December 31, 2009, and $31.0 billion at December 31, 2008, in collateral
supporting loaned securities with values of $20.0 billion and $30.1 billion, respectively.

We enter into other types of indemnification agreements in the ordinary course of business under
which we agree to indemnify third parties against any damages, losses and expenses incurred in
connection with legal and other proceedings arising from relationships or transactions with us.
These relationships or transactions include those arising from service as a director or officer of
the Company, underwriting agreements relating to our securities, acquisition agreements and various
other business transactions or arrangements. Because the extent of our obligations under these
agreements depends entirely upon the occurrence of future events, our potential future liability
under these agreements is not determinable.

We provide liquidity facilities on all commercial paper issued by the conduit we administer. We
also provide liquidity to certain off-balance sheet entities that
hold securitized fixed-rate
municipal bonds and consumer or commercial assets that are partially funded with the issuance of
money market and other short-term notes. See Note 8 in this Report for additional information on
these arrangements.

Written put options are contracts that give the counterparty the right to sell to us an underlying
instrument held by the counterparty at a specified price, and include options, floors, caps and
credit default swaps. These written put option contracts generally permit net settlement. While
these derivative transactions expose us to risk in the event the option is exercised, we manage
this risk by entering into offsetting trades or by taking short positions in the underlying
instrument. We offset substantially all put options written to customers with purchased options.
Additionally, for certain of these contracts, we require the counterparty to pledge the underlying
instrument as collateral for the transaction. Our ultimate obligation under written put options is
based on

future market conditions and is only quantifiable at settlement. See Note 8 in this Report for
additional information regarding transactions with VIEs and Note 15 in this Report for additional
information regarding written derivative contracts.

In certain loan sales or securitizations, we provide recourse to the buyer whereby we are required
to repurchase loans at par value plus accrued interest on the occurrence of certain credit-related
events within a certain period of time. The maximum exposure to loss represents the outstanding
principal balance of the loans sold or securitized that are subject to recourse provisions, but the
likelihood of the repurchase of the entire balance is remote and amounts paid can be recovered in
whole or in part from the sale of collateral. In 2009, we did not repurchase a significant amount
of loans associated with these agreements.

We have provided residual value guarantees as part of certain leasing transactions of corporate
assets. At December 31, 2009, the only remaining residual value guarantee related to a leasing
transaction on certain corporate buildings. At December 31, 2008, the residual value guarantees
also included leasing transactions related to railcars, which were unwound in first quarter 2009.
The lessors in these leases are generally large financial institutions or their leasing
subsidiaries. These guarantees protect the lessor from loss on sale of the related asset at the end
of the lease term. To the extent that a sale of the leased assets results in proceeds less than a
stated percent (generally 80% to 89%) of the asset s cost less depreciation, we would be required
to reimburse the lessor under our guarantee.

In connection with certain brokerage, asset management, insurance agency and other acquisitions we
have made, the terms of the acquisition agreements provide for deferred payments or additional
consideration, based on certain performance targets.

We have entered into various contingent performance guarantees through credit risk participation
arrangements. Under these agreements, if a customer defaults on its obligation to perform under
certain credit agreements with third parties, we will be required to make payments to the third
parties.

Legal Actions  

Wells Fargo and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in a number of judicial, regulatory
and arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising from the conduct of our business activities.
These proceedings include actions brought against Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries with respect
to corporate related matters and transactions in which Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries were
involved. In addition, Wells Fargo and our subsidiaries may be requested to provide information or
otherwise cooperate with governmental authorities in the conduct of investigations of other persons
or industry groups.

Although there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome, Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries
have generally denied, or believe we have a meritorious defense and will deny, liability in all
significant litigation pending against us, including the matters described below, and we intend to
defend vigorously each case, other than matters we describe

142 

Table of Contents   

as having or being settled. Reserves are established for legal claims when it becomes probable that a
loss will be incurred at the date of the financial statements and the amount of loss can be
reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher or
lower than the amounts reserved for those claims.

ADELPHIA LITIGATION  Wachovia Bank, N.A. and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, are defendants
in an adversary proceeding previously pending in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the
Southern District of New York related to the bankruptcy of Adelphia Communications Corporation
(Adelphia). The Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors in Adelphia s bankruptcy case filed the
claims; the current plaintiff is the Adelphia Recovery Trust, which was substituted as the
plaintiff pursuant to Adelphia s confirmed plan of reorganization. In February 2006, an order was
entered moving the case to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
The complaint asserts claims against the defendants under state law, bankruptcy law and the Bank
Holding Company Act and seeks equitable relief and an unspecified amount of compensatory and
punitive damages. After rulings on various motions to dismiss, the remaining claims essentially
allege the banks should be liable to Adelphia on theories of aiding and abetting a breach of
fiduciary duty and violation of the Bank Holding Company Act. The case is scheduled to go to trial
on September 13, 2010.

AUCTION RATE SECURITIES  On November 20, 2008, the State of Washington Department of
Financial Institutions filed a proceeding entitled  In the Matter of determining whether there has
been a violation of the Securities Act of Washington by: Wells Fargo Investments, LLC; Wells Fargo
Brokerage Services, LLC; and Wells Fargo Institutional Securities, LLC . The action sought a cease
and desist order against violations of the anti-fraud and suitability provisions of the Washington
Securities Act. On April 23, 2009, the Attorney General of the State of California filed a
complaint in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of San Francisco alleging
that certain Wells Fargo affiliates improperly sold ARS to customers. The Attorney General sought
an injunction against those affiliates, enjoining them from violating certain California statutes,
civil penalties, disgorgement of profits, restitution and damages. On November 18, 2009, Wells
Fargo announced separate settlement agreements with the State of California Attorney General s
office and the North American Securities Administrators Association. The agreements resolve the
above-referenced enforcement actions and all active regulatory investigations concerning Wells
Fargo s participation in the ARS market. In conjunction with the settlement agreements, Wells Fargo
announced it would buy back ARS from eligible investors.

In addition, the purported civil class actions relating to the sale of ARS are no longer pending
against various Wells Fargo affiliated defendants. On January 26, 2010, two of the pending civil
class actions were dismissed in their entirety. The remaining cases have been settled or
conditionally dismissed.

CASA DE CAMBIO INVESTIGATION  An investigation is being conducted by the U.S. Attorney s
Office for the Southern District of Florida, in conjunction with certain regulators, into, among
other matters, Wachovia Bank, N.A. s prior correspondent banking relationship with certain non-domestic
exchange houses and Wachovia Bank, N.A. s compliance with Bank
Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering requirements. Wachovia Bank,
N.A. has
cooperated fully with the regulators and with the U.S.
Attorney s Office s investigation, and is engaged in
discussions to resolve this matter by paying penalties and entering
into agreements concerning future conduct.

DATA TREASURY LITIGATION  Wells Fargo   Company, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wachovia Bank,
N.A. and Wachovia Corporation are among over 55 defendants originally named in two actions asserting patent
infringement claims filed by Data Treasury Corporation in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of Texas. Data Treasury seeks a declaration that its patents are valid and have been
infringed, and seeks damages and permanent injunctive relief. A trial on two of the patents is
scheduled to be held on August 1, 2010. A second trial on the remaining patents has not been
scheduled.

ELAVON LITIGATION  On January 16, 2009, Elavon, Inc. (Elavon), a provider of merchant
processing services, filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Georgia against Wachovia Corporation, Wachovia Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo   Company, and Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. The complaint seeks equitable relief, including specific performance, and damages for
Wachovia Bank s allegedly wrongful termination of its merchant referral contract with Elavon. The
complaint also sought damages, including punitive damages, against the Wells Fargo entities for
tortious interference with contractual relations; this claim was dismissed by the court on October
13, 2009. On September 29, 2009, Elavon filed an amended complaint adding a party not affiliated
with Wells Fargo to the litigation. The case is currently in discovery.

ERISA LITIGATION  Seven purported class actions have been filed against Wachovia
Corporation (Wachovia), its board of directors and certain senior officers in the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of employees of Wachovia and its affiliates
who held shares of Wachovia common stock in their Wachovia Savings Plan accounts. On June 18, 2009,
the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York entered a Memorandum and Order
transferring these consolidated cases to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of North
Carolina. The plaintiffs allege breach of fiduciary duty under the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act (ERISA) claiming, among other things, that the defendants should not have permitted
Wachovia common stock to remain an investment option in the Wachovia Savings Plan because alleged
misleading disclosures relating to the Golden West mortgage portfolio, exposure to CDOs and other
problem loans, and other alleged misstatements made its stock a risky and imprudent investment for
employee retirement accounts. Wachovia has filed a motion to dismiss which is currently pending.

143 

Table of Contents   

Note 14:    Guarantees and Legal Actions (   continued)  

GOLDEN WEST AND RELATED LITIGATION  A purported securities class action,  Lipetz v.
Wachovia Corporation, et al. , was filed on July 7, 2008, in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York alleging violations of Sections 10 and 20 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934. An amended complaint was filed on December 15, 2008. Among other allegations,
plaintiffs allege Wachovia Corporation s common stock price was artificially inflated as a result
of allegedly misleading disclosures relating to the Golden West Financial Corp. (Golden West)
mortgage portfolio, Wachovia Corporation s exposure to other mortgage related products such as
CDOs, control issues and ARS. On March 19, 2009, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the
amended class action complaint in the  Lipetz  case, which has now been re-captioned as  In re
Wachovia Equity Securities Litigation . There are four additional cases (not class actions)
containing allegations similar to the allegations in the  In re Wachovia Equity Securities
Litigation  captioned  Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP v. Wachovia Corp. et al., FC Holdings AB, et al.
v.
Wachovia Corp., et al., Deka Investment GmbH v. Wachovia Corp. et al.  and  Forsta AP-Fonden v.
Wachovia Corp., et al. , respectively, which were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of New York, and there are a number of other similar actions filed in state courts in
North Carolina and South Carolina by individual shareholders.

After a number of procedural motions, three purported class action cases alleging violations of
Sections 11, 12, and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 as a result of allegedly misleading
disclosures relating to the Golden West mortgage portfolio in connection with Wachovia s issuance
of various preferred securities and bonds were transferred to the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York. A consolidated class action complaint was filed on September 4,
2009, and the matter is now captioned  In Re Wachovia Preferred Securities and Bond/Notes
Litigation . On September 29, 2009, a non-class action case containing allegations similar to the
allegations in the  In re Wachovia Preferred Securities and Bond/Notes litigation , and captioned
 City of Livonia Employees  Retirement System v. Wachovia Corp et al. , was filed in the Southern
District of New York.

Motions to dismiss all of these cases are pending.

Several government agencies are investigating
matters similar to the issues raised in this litigation. Wells Fargo and its affiliates are
cooperating fully.

ILLINOIS ATTORNEY GENERAL LITIGATION  On July 31, 2009, the Attorney General for the State
of Illinois filed a civil lawsuit against Wells Fargo   Company, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wells
Fargo Financial Illinois, Inc. in the Circuit Court for Cook County, Illinois. The Illinois
Attorney General alleges that the Wells Fargo defendants engaged in illegal discrimination by
 reverse redlining  and by steering African-American and Latino customers into high cost, subprime
mortgage loans while other borrowers with similar incomes received lower cost mortgages. Illinois
also alleges that Wells Fargo Financial Illinois, Inc. misled Illinois customers about the terms of
mortgage loans. Illinois  complaint against all Wells Fargo defendants is based on

alleged violation of the Illinois Human Rights Act and the Illinois Fairness in Lending Act. The
complaint also alleges that Wells Fargo Financial Illinois, Inc. violated the Illinois Consumer
Fraud and Deceptive Business Practices Act and the Illinois Uniform Deceptive Trade Practices Act.
Illinois  complaint seeks an injunction against the defendants  alleged violation of these Illinois
statutes, restitution to consumers and civil money penalties. On October 9, 2009, the Company filed
a motion to dismiss Illinois  complaint.

INTERCHANGE LITIGATION  Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo   Company, Wachovia Bank, N.A.
and Wachovia Corporation are named as defendants, separately or in combination, in putative class
actions filed on behalf of a plaintiff class of merchants and in individual actions brought by
individual merchants with regard to the interchange fees associated with Visa and MasterCard
payment card transactions. These actions have been consolidated in the United States District Court
for the Eastern District of New York. Visa, MasterCard and several banks and bank holding companies
are named as defendants in various of these actions. The amended and consolidated complaint asserts
claims against defendants based on alleged violations of federal and state antitrust laws and seeks
damages, as well as injunctive relief. Plaintiff merchants allege that Visa, MasterCard and their
member banks unlawfully colluded to set interchange rates. Plaintiffs also allege that enforcement
of certain Visa and MasterCard rules and alleged tying and bundling of services offered to
merchants are anticompetitive. Wells Fargo and Wachovia, along with other members of Visa, are
parties to Loss and Judgment Sharing Agreements (the Agreements), which provide that they, along
with other member banks of Visa, will share, based on a formula, in any losses from certain
litigation specified in the Agreements, including the Interchange Litigation.

LE-NATURE S INC.  Wachovia Bank, N.A. is the administrative agent on a $285 million credit
facility extended to Le-Nature s, Inc. (Le-Nature s) in September 2006, of which approximately $270
million was syndicated to other lenders by Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC. Le-Nature s was the
subject of a Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition which was converted to a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition
in November 2006 in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. The filing
was precipitated by an apparent fraud relating to Le-Nature s financial condition.

On March 14, 2007, the two Wachovia entities filed an action against several hedge funds in the
Superior Court for the State of North Carolina, Mecklenburg County, alleging that the hedge fund
defendants had acquired a significant quantity of the outstanding debt with full knowledge of
Le-Nature s fraud and with the intention of pursuing alleged fraud and other tort claims against
the two Wachovia entities purportedly related to their role in Le-Nature s credit facility. A
preliminary injunction was entered by the Court that, among other things, prohibited defendants
from asserting any such claims in any other forum. On March 13, 2008, the North Carolina judge
granted Defendants  motion to stay

144 

Table of Contents   

the North Carolina action and modified the injunction to allow the Defendants to attempt to assert
claims in a Federal Court action in New York, the dismissal of which has been affirmed by the
Second Circuit. The Wachovia entities  appeal was denied by the North Carolina Court of Appeals on
December 22, 2009, and the matter is back before the Superior Court. Plaintiffs in the dismissed
Federal Court action have filed an additional case in the New York State Supreme Court for the
County of Manhattan seeking to recover from Wachovia on various theories of liability.

On April 28, 2008, holders of Le-Nature s Senior Subordinated Notes, an offering which was
underwritten by Wachovia Capital Markets in June 2003, sued alleging various fraud claims. This
case, captioned  California Public Employees Retirement System, et al. v. Wachovia Capital Markets,
LLC  is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. On April 3,
2009, after a number of procedural motions in various courts, the case was remanded to the Superior
Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles. On January 14, 2010, the case was
dismissed with plaintiffs granted the right to replead. On August 1, 2009, the trustee under the
indenture for Le-Nature s Senior Subordinated Notes also filed claims against Wachovia Capital
Markets seeking recovery for the bondholders under a variety of theories.

On October 30, 2008, the liquidation trust created in Le-Nature s bankruptcy filed suit against a
number of individuals and entities, including Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, and Wachovia Bank,
N.A., in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania, asserting a variety of
claims on behalf of the estate. On March 2, 2009, the Wachovia defendants moved to dismiss the case
filed by the liquidation trust. On September 16, 2009, the Court dismissed a cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty but denied the remainder of Wachovia s motion to dismiss.

MERGER RELATED LITIGATION  On October 4, 2008, Citigroup, Inc. (Citigroup) purported to
commence an action in the Supreme Court of the State of New York for the County of Manhattan,
captioned  Citigroup, Inc. v. Wachovia Corp., et al. , naming as defendants Wachovia Corporation
(Wachovia), Wells Fargo   Company (Wells Fargo), and the directors of both companies. The complaint
alleged that Wachovia breached an exclusivity agreement with Citigroup, which by its terms was to
expire on October 6, 2008, by entering into negotiations and an eventual acquisition agreement with
Wells Fargo, and that Wells Fargo and the individual defendants had tortiously interfered with the
same contract.

On October 4, 2008, Wachovia filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District
of New York, captioned  Wachovia Corp. v. Citigroup, Inc . On October 14, 2008, Wells Fargo filed a
related complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, captioned  Wells
Fargo v. Citigroup, Inc . Both complaints seek declaratory and injunctive relief, stating that the
Wells Fargo merger agreement is valid, proper, and not prohibited by the exclusivity agreement. On
March 20, 2009, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York remanded the
 Citigroup, Inc. v. Wachovia 

Corp., et al.  case to the Supreme Court of the State of New York for the County of Manhattan, but
retained jurisdiction over the  Wachovia v. Citigroup  and  Wells Fargo v. Citigroup  cases. On July
13, 2009, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York issued an Opinion and Order
denying Citigroup s motion for partial judgment on the pleadings in the  Wachovia Corp. v.
Citigroup, Inc.  case. The Court held that the Exclusivity Agreement, entered into between Citigroup
and Wachovia on September 29, 2008, and which formed the basis for a substantial portion of the
allegations of Citigroup s complaint against Wachovia and Wells Fargo, was void as against public
policy by enactment of Section 126(c) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act on October 3,
2008. These cases are currently in discovery in both courts.

MUNICIPAL DERIVATIVES BID PRACTICES INVESTIGATION  The Department of Justice (DOJ) and the
SEC, beginning in November 2006, have been requesting information from a number of financial
institutions, including Wachovia Bank, N.A. s municipal derivatives group, generally with regard to
competitive bid practices in the municipal derivative markets. In connection with these inquiries,
Wachovia Bank, N.A. has received subpoenas from both the DOJ and SEC as well as requests from the
OCC and several states seeking documents and information. The DOJ and the SEC have advised Wachovia
Bank, N.A. that they believe certain of its employees engaged in improper conduct in conjunction
with certain competitively bid transactions and, in November 2007, the DOJ notified two Wachovia
Bank, N.A. employees, both of whom have since been terminated, that they are regarded as targets of
the DOJ s investigation. Wachovia Bank, N.A. has been cooperating and continues to fully cooperate
with the government investigations.

Wachovia Bank, N.A., along with a number of other banks and financial services companies, has also
been named as a defendant in a number of substantially identical purported class actions, filed in
various state and federal courts by various municipalities alleging they have been damaged by the
activity which is the subject of the governmental investigations. On April 30, 2009, the Court
granted a motion filed by Wachovia Bank, N.A. and certain other defendants to dismiss the
Consolidated Class Action Complaint and dismissed all claims against Wachovia Bank, N.A., with
leave to replead. A Second Consolidated Amended Complaint was filed on June 18, 2009, and a motion
to dismiss this complaint has been filed and briefed. A number of putative class and individual
actions have been brought in California, including five non-class complaints which were amended
with new allegations and the addition of Wells Fargo   Company as a defendant. All of the cases are
being coordinated in the Southern District of New York.

PAYMENT PROCESSING CENTER  On February 17, 2006, the U.S. Attorney s Office for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania filed a civil fraud complaint against a former Wachovia Bank, N.A.
customer, Payment Processing Center (PPC). PPC was a third party payment processor for
telemarketing and catalogue companies. On April 24, 2008, Wachovia Bank, N.A. and the

145 

Table of Contents   

Note 14:  Guarantees and Legal Actions (   continued)  

OCC entered into an Agreement to resolve the OCC s investigation into Wachovia Bank, N.A. s
relationship with PPC and three other companies. The Agreement provides, among other things, that
(i) Wachovia Bank, N.A. will provide restitution to consumers, (ii) will create a segregated
account in the amount of $125 million to cover the estimated maximum cost of the restitution, (iii)
will fund organizations that provide education for consumers over a two year period in the amount
of $8.9 million, (iv) will make various changes to its policies and procedures related to customers
that use remotely created checks and (v) will appoint a special Compliance Committee to oversee
compliance with the Agreement. Wachovia Bank, N.A. and the OCC also entered into a Consent Order
for Payment of a Civil Money Penalty whereby Wachovia Bank, N.A., without admitting or denying the
allegations contained therein, agreed to payment of a $10 million civil money penalty. The OCC
Agreement was amended on December 8, 2008, to provide for direct restitution payments and those
payments

were mailed to consumers on December 11, 2008. Wachovia Bank, N.A. is cooperating with government
officials to administer the OCC settlement and in their continued investigation of this matter.

OUTLOOK  Based on information currently available, advice of counsel, available insurance
coverage and established reserves, Wells Fargo believes that the eventual outcome of the actions
against Wells Fargo and/or its subsidiaries, including the matters described above, will not,
individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Wells Fargo s consolidated
financial position or results of operations. However, in the event of unexpected future
developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of those matters, if unfavorable, may be
material to Wells Fargo s results of operations for any particular period.

Note 15:      Derivatives 

We use derivatives to manage exposure to market risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and
foreign currency risk, to generate profits from proprietary trading and to assist customers with
their risk management objectives. Derivative transactions are measured in terms of the notional
amount, but this amount is not recorded on the balance sheet and is not, when viewed in isolation,
a meaningful measure of the risk profile of the instruments. The notional amount is generally not
exchanged, but is used only as the basis on which interest and other payments are determined. Our
approach to managing interest rate risk includes the use of derivatives. This helps minimize
significant, unplanned fluctuations in earnings, fair values of assets and liabilities, and cash
flows caused by interest rate volatility. This approach involves modifying the repricing
characteristics of certain assets and liabilities so that changes in interest rates do not have a
significant adverse effect on the net interest margin and cash flows. As a result of interest rate
fluctuations, hedged assets and liabilities will gain or lose market value. In a fair value hedging
strategy, the effect of this unrealized gain or loss will generally be offset by the gain or loss
on the derivatives linked to the hedged assets and liabilities. In a cash flow hedging strategy, we
manage the variability of cash payments due to interest rate fluctuations by the effective use of
derivatives linked to hedged assets and liabilities.

We use derivatives that are designed as qualifying hedge contracts as defined by the Derivatives
and Hedging topic in the Codification as part of our interest rate and foreign currency risk
management, including interest rate swaps, caps and floors, futures and forward contracts, and
options. We also offer various derivatives, including interest rate, commodity, equity, credit and
foreign exchange contracts, to our customers but usually offset our exposure from such contracts by
purchasing other financial contracts. The customer accommodations and any offsetting financial
contracts are treated as free-standing derivatives. Free-standing derivatives also include
derivatives we enter into for risk management that do not otherwise qualify for hedge accounting,
including economic hedge derivatives. To a lesser extent, we take positions based on market
expectations or to benefit from price differentials between financial instruments and markets.
Additionally, free-standing derivatives include embedded derivatives that are required to be
separately accounted for from their host contracts.

Our derivative activities are monitored by Corporate ALCO. Our Treasury function, which includes
asset/liability management, is responsible for various hedging strategies developed through
analysis of data from financial models and other internal and industry sources. We incorporate the
resulting hedging strategies into our overall interest rate risk management and trading strategies.

146 

Table of Contents   

The total notional or contractual amounts and fair values for derivatives were:

(1) 
       
     Represents asset/liability management hedges, which are included in other assets or other
liabilities. 

(2) 
       
     Notional amounts presented exclude $20.9 billion of basis swaps that are combined with receive
fixed-rate/pay floating-rate swaps and designated as one hedging instrument. 

(3) 
       
     Includes free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the risk of changes in the
fair value of residential MSRs, MHFS, interest rate lock commitments and other interests held. 

(4) 
       
     Customer accommodation, trading and other free-standing derivatives are included in trading
assets or other liabilities. 

(5) 
       
     Represents netting of derivative asset and liability balances, and related cash collateral,
with the same counterparty subject to master netting arrangements under the accounting guidance
covering the offsetting of amounts related to certain contracts. The amount of cash collateral
netted against derivative assets and liabilities was $5.3 billion and $14.1 billion, respectively,
at December 31, 2009, and $17.7 billion and $22.2 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2008. 

Fair Value Hedges  

We use interest rate swaps to convert certain of
our fixed-rate long-term debt and CDs to floating rates
to hedge our exposure to interest rate risk. We also
enter into cross-currency swaps, cross-currency
interest rate swaps and forward contracts to hedge our
exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate
risk associated with the issuance of non-U.S. dollar
denominated long-term debt and repurchase agreements.
Consistent with our asset/liability management strategy
of converting fixed-rate debt to floating rates, we
believe interest expense should reflect only the
current contractual interest cash flows on the
liabilities and the related swaps. In addition, we use
interest rate swaps and forward contracts to hedge
against changes in fair value of certain debt
securities that are classified as securities available
for sale, due to changes in interest rates, foreign
currency rates, or both. For fair value hedges of
long-term debt, CDs, repur-

chase agreements and debt securities, all parts of each
derivative s gain or loss due to the hedged risk are
included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness,
except for foreign-currency denominated securities
available for sale, short-term borrowings and long-term
debt hedged with forward
derivatives for which the time value component of the
derivative gain or loss is excluded from the assessment
of hedge effectiveness.

For fair value hedging relationships, we use
statistical regression analysis to assess hedge
effectiveness, both at inception of the hedging
relationship and on an ongoing basis. The regression
analysis involves regressing the periodic change in
fair value of the hedging instrument against the
periodic changes in fair value of the asset or
liability being hedged due to changes in the hedged
risk(s). The assessment includes an evaluation of the
quantitative measures of the regression results used
to validate the conclusion of high effectiveness.

147 

Table of Contents   

Note 15:  Derivatives ( continued)  

The following table shows the net gains
(losses) recognized in the income statement related
to derivatives

in fair value hedging relationships as defined
by the Derivatives and Hedging topic in the
Codification.

(1) 
       
     Includes approximately $10 million of losses on forward derivatives hedging
foreign-currency securities available for sale, short-term borrowings and long-term debt,
representing the portion of derivative gain or loss excluded from assessment of hedge effectiveness
(time value). 

Cash Flow Hedges  

We hedge floating-rate debt against future
interest rate increases by using interest rate swaps,
caps, floors and futures to limit variability of cash
flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. We
also use interest rate swaps and floors to hedge the
variability in interest payments received on certain
floating-rate commercial loans, due to changes in the
benchmark interest rate. Gains and losses on
derivatives that are reclassified from cumulative OCI
to current period earnings are included in the line
item in which the hedged item s effect on earnings is
recorded. All parts of gain or loss on these
derivatives are included in the assessment of hedge
effectiveness. For all cash flow hedges, we assess
hedge effectiveness using regression analysis, both at
inception of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing
basis. The regression analysis involves regressing the
periodic changes in cash flows of the hedging
instrument against the periodic changes in cash flows
of the forecasted transaction being hedged due to
changes in the hedged risk(s). The assessment includes
an evaluation of the quantitative measures of the
regression results used to validate the conclusion of
high effectiveness.

We expect that $284 million of deferred net gains
on derivatives in OCI at December 31, 2009, will be
reclassified as earnings during the next twelve months,
compared with $60 million of net deferred losses at
December 31, 2008. We are hedging our exposure to the
variability of future cash flows for all forecasted
transactions for a maximum of 17 years for both hedges
of floating-rate debt and floating-rate commercial
loans.

The following table shows the net gains recognized
related to derivatives in cash flow hedging
relationships as defined by the Derivatives and Hedging
topic in the Codification.

(in millions) 
       
     Year ended December 31, 2009 

Gains (after tax) recognized in OCI
on derivatives (effective portion)

$ 
     107 

Gains (pre tax) reclassified from
cumulative OCI into net interest
income (effective portion)

531 

Gains (pre tax) recognized in 

noninterest income on  
derivatives

(ineffective portion)  (1) 

42 

(1) 
       
     None of the change in value of the
derivatives was excluded from the assessment of
hedge effectiveness. 

Free-Standing Derivatives  

We use free-standing derivatives (economic
hedges), in addition to debt securities available for
sale, to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value
of residential MSRs, new prime residential MHFS,
derivative loan commitments and other interests held,
with the resulting gain or loss reflected in other
income.

The
derivatives used to hedge residential MSRs, which include swaps, swaptions, forwards, Eurodollar and
Treasury futures and options contracts, resulted in net
derivative gains of $6.8 billion in 2009 and net
derivative gains of $3.1 billion in 2008 from economic
hedges related to our mortgage servicing activities and
are included in mortgage banking noninterest income.
The aggregate fair value of these derivatives used as
economic hedges was a net liability of $961 million at
December 31, 2009, and a net asset of $3.6 billion at
December 31, 2008. Changes in fair value of debt
securities available for sale (unrealized gains and
losses) are not included in servicing income, but are
reported in cumulative OCI (net of tax) or, upon sale,
are reported in net gains (losses) on debt securities
available for sale.

148 

Table of Contents   

Interest rate lock commitments for residential
mortgage loans that we intend to sell are considered
free-standing derivatives. Our interest rate exposure
on these derivative loan commitments, as well as most
new prime residential MHFS for which we have elected
the fair value option, is hedged with free-standing
derivatives (economic hedges) such as forwards and
options, Eurodollar futures and options, and Treasury
futures, forwards and options contracts. The
commitments, free-standing derivatives and residential
MHFS are carried at fair value with changes in fair
value included in mortgage banking noninterest income.
For interest rate lock commitments we include, at
inception and during the life of the loan commitment,
the expected net future cash flows related to the
associated servicing of the loan as part of the fair
value measurement of derivative loan commitments.
Changes subsequent to inception are based on changes in
fair value of the underlying loan resulting from the
exercise of the commitment and changes in the
probability that the loan will not fund within the
terms of the commitment (referred to as a fall-out
factor). The value of the underlying loan is affected
primarily by changes in interest rates and the passage
of time. However, changes in investor demand, such as
concerns about credit risk, can also cause changes in
the spread relationships between underlying loan value
and the derivative financial instruments that cannot be
hedged. The aggregate fair value of derivative loan
commitments in the balance sheet was a net liability of
$312 million and a net asset of $125 million at
December 31, 2009, and 2008, respectively, and is
included in the caption  Interest rate contracts  under
 Customer accommodation, trading and other free-standing derivatives 
in the table on page 147.

We also enter into various derivatives primarily
to provide derivative products to customers. To a
lesser extent, we take positions based on market
expectations or to benefit from price differentials
between financial instruments and markets. These
derivatives are not linked to specific assets and
liabilities in the balance sheet or to forecasted
transactions in an accounting hedge relationship and,
therefore, do not qualify for hedge accounting. We also
enter into free-standing derivatives for risk
management that do not otherwise qualify for hedge
accounting. They are carried at fair value with changes
in fair value recorded as part of other noninterest
income.

Additionally,
free-standing derivatives include
embedded derivatives that are required to be accounted
for separate from their host contract. We periodically
issue hybrid long-term notes and CDs where the
performance of the hybrid instrument notes is linked
to an equity, commodity or currency index, or basket
of such indices. These notes contain explicit terms
that affect some or all of the cash flows or the value
of the note in a manner similar to a derivative
instrument and therefore are considered to contain an
 embedded  derivative instrument. The indices on which
the performance of the hybrid instrument is calculated
are not clearly and closely related to the host debt
instrument. In accordance with accounting guidance for
derivatives, the  embedded  derivative is separated
from the host contract and accounted for as a
free-standing derivative.

The following table shows the net gains (losses)
recognized in the income statement related to
derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under
the Derivatives and Hedging topic of the Codification.

Year ended 

(in millions) 
       
     December 31, 2009 

Gains (losses) recognized on free-standing
derivatives (economic hedges) 

Interest rate contracts  (1) 

Recognized in noninterest income:

Mortgage banking

$ 
     5,582 

Other

(15 
     ) 

Foreign exchange contracts

133 

Credit contracts

(269 
     ) 

Subtotal

5,431 

Gains (losses) recognized on customer
accommodation, trading and other
free-standing derivatives 

Interest rate contracts  (2) 

Recognized in noninterest income:

Mortgage banking

2,035 

Other

1,139 

Commodity contracts

29 

Equity contracts

(275 
     ) 

Foreign exchange contracts

607 

Credit contracts

(621 
     ) 

Other

(187 
     ) 

Subtotal

2,727 

Net gains recognized related to derivatives
not designated as hedging instruments

$ 
     8,158 

(1) 
       
     Predominantly mortgage banking noninterest
income including gains (losses) on the derivatives used
as economic hedges of MSRs, interest rate lock
commitments, loans held for sale and mortgages held for
sale. 

(2) 
       
     Predominantly mortgage banking noninterest income
including gains (losses) on interest rate lock
commitments. 

Credit Derivatives  

We use credit derivatives to manage exposure to
credit risk related to lending and investing activity
and to assist customers with their risk management
objectives. This may include protection sold to offset
purchased protection in structured product
transactions, as well as liquidity agreements written
to special purpose vehicles. The maximum exposure of
sold credit derivatives is managed through posted
collateral, purchased credit derivatives and similar
products in order to achieve our desired credit risk
profile. This credit risk management provides an
ability to recover a significant portion of any amounts
that would be paid under the sold credit derivatives.
We would be required to perform under the noted credit
derivatives in the event of default by the referenced
obligors. Events of default include events such as
bankruptcy, capital restructuring or lack of principal
and/or interest payment. In certain cases, other
triggers may exist, such as the credit downgrade of the
referenced obligors or the inability of the special
purpose vehicle for which we have provided liquidity to
obtain funding.

The following table provides details of sold and
purchased credit derivatives. In 2009, we exited the
legacy Wachovia market making activity of credit
correlation trading resulting in a significant
reduction in our credit derivative and counterparty
credit exposures from December 31, 2008.

149 

Table of Contents   

Note 15:  Derivatives ( continued)  

Protection sold represents the estimated
maximum exposure to loss that would be incurred under
an assumed hypothetical circumstance, despite what we
believe is its extremely remote possibility, where the
value of our interests and any associated collateral
declines to zero, without any consideration of recovery
or offset from any economic hedges. Accordingly, this
required disclosure is not an indication of expected
loss. The amounts under non-investment grade represent
the notional amounts of those credit derivatives on
which we have a higher performance risk, or higher risk
of being required to perform under the terms of the
credit derivative and is a function of the underlying
assets. We consider the risk of performance to be high
if the underlying assets under the credit derivative
have an external rating that is below investment grade
or an internal credit default grade that is equivalent
thereto. We believe the net protection sold, which is
representative of the net notional amount of protection
sold and purchased with identical underlyings, in
combination with other protection purchased, is more
representative of our exposure to loss than either
non-investment grade or protection sold. Other
protection purchased represents additional protection,
which may offset the exposure to loss for protection
sold, that was not purchased with an identical
underlying of the protection sold.

Credit-Risk Contingent Features  

Certain of our derivative contracts contain
provisions whereby if the credit rating of our debt,
based on certain major credit rating agencies indicated
in the relevant contracts, were to fall below
investment grade, the counterparty could demand
additional collateral or require termination or
replacement of

derivative instruments in a net liability position. The
aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with
such credit-risk-related contingent features that are
in a net liability position on December 31, 2009, was
$7.5 billion for which we have posted $7.1 billion
collateral in the normal course of business. If the
credit-risk-related contingent features underlying
these agreements were triggered on December 31, 2009,
we would be required to post
additional collateral of $1.0 billion or potentially
settle the contract in an amount equal to its fair
value.

Counterparty Credit Risk  

By using derivatives, we are exposed to
counterparty credit risk if counterparties to the
derivative contracts do not perform as expected. If a
counterparty fails to perform, our counterparty credit
risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative
asset on our balance sheet. The amounts reported as a
derivative asset are derivative contracts in a gain
position, and to the extent subject to master netting
arrangements, net of derivatives in a loss position
with the same counterparty and cash collateral
received. We minimize counterparty credit risk through
credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures,
executing master netting arrangements and obtaining
collateral, where appropriate. To the extent the master
netting arrangements and other criteria meet the
requirements outlined in the Derivatives and Hedging
topic of the Codification, derivatives balances and
related cash collateral amounts are shown net in the
balance sheet. Counterparty credit risk related to
derivatives is considered in determining fair value.

150 

Table of Contents   

Note 16:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 

We use fair value measurements to record fair
value adjustments to certain assets and liabilities
and to determine fair value disclosures. Trading
assets, securities available for sale, derivatives,
prime residential mortgages held for sale (MHFS),
certain commercial loans held for sale (LHFS),
residential MSRs, principal investments and securities
sold but not yet purchased (short sale liabilities)
are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis.
Additionally, from time to time, we may be required to
record at fair value other assets on a nonrecurring
basis, such as nonprime residential and commercial
MHFS, certain LHFS, loans held for investment and
certain other assets. These nonrecurring fair value
adjustments typically involve application of
lower-of-cost-or-market accounting or write-downs of
individual assets.

We adopted new guidance on fair value measurements
effective January 1, 2009, which addresses measuring
fair value in situations where markets are inactive and
transactions are not orderly. In accordance with fair
value accounting provisions, transaction or quoted
prices for assets or liabilities in inactive markets may
require adjustment due to the uncertainty of whether the
underlying transactions are orderly. Prior to our
adoption of the new provisions for measuring fair value,
we primarily used unadjusted independent vendor or
broker quoted prices to measure fair value for
substantially all securities available for sale. In
connection with the change in guidance for fair value
measurement, we developed policies and procedures to
determine when the level and volume of activity for our
assets and liabilities requiring fair value measurements
has significantly declined relative to normal
conditions. For such items that use price quotes, such
as certain security classes within securities available
for sale, the degree of market inactivity and distressed
transactions was analyzed to determine the appropriate
adjustment to the price quotes. The security classes
where we considered the market to be less orderly
included non-agency residential MBS, commercial MBS,
CDOs, home equity asset-backed securities, auto
asset-backed securities and credit card-backed
securities. The methodology used to adjust the quotes
involved weighting the price quotes and results of
internal pricing techniques such as the net present
value of future expected cash flows (with observable
inputs, where available) discounted at a rate of return
market participants require. The significant inputs
utilized in the internal pricing techniques, which were
estimated by type of underlying collateral, included
credit loss assumptions, estimated prepayment speeds and
appropriate discount rates. The more active and orderly
markets for particular security classes were determined
to be, the more weighting assigned to price quotes. The
less active and orderly markets were determined to be,
the less weighting assigned to price quotes. For the
impact of the new fair value measurement provisions, see
Note 1 in this Report.

Under fair value option accounting guidance, we
elected to measure MHFS at fair value prospectively for
new prime residential MHFS originations, for which an
active secondary market and readily available market
prices existed to reliably support fair value pricing
models used for these loans. We also elected to
remeasure at fair value certain of our other interests
held related to residential loan sales and
securitizations. We believe the election for MHFS and
other interests held (which are now hedged with
free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) along with
our MSRs) reduces certain timing differences and better
matches changes in the value of these assets with
changes in the value of derivatives used as economic
hedges for these assets.

Fair Value Hierarchy  

In accordance with the Fair Value Measurements
and Disclosures topic of the Codification, we group
our assets and liabilities measured at fair value in
three levels, based on the markets in which the
assets and liabilities are traded and the reliability
of the assumptions used to determine fair value.
These levels are:

Level 1   Valuation is based upon quoted
prices for identical instruments traded in
active markets. 

Level 2   Valuation is based upon quoted prices
for similar instruments in active markets, quoted
prices for identical or similar instruments in
markets that are not active, and model-based
valuation techniques for which all significant
assumptions are observable in the market. 

Level 3   Valuation is generated from
model-based techniques that use significant
assumptions not observable in the market. These
unobservable assumptions reflect estimates of
assumptions that market participants would use in
pricing the asset or liability. Valuation
techniques include use of option pricing models,
discounted cash flow models and similar
techniques. 

In the determination of the classification of
financial instruments in Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair
value hierarchy, we consider all available information,
including observable market data, indications of market
liquidity and orderliness, and our understanding of the
valuation techniques and significant inputs used. For
securities in inactive markets, we use a predetermined
percentage to evaluate the impact of fair value
adjustments derived from weighting both external and
internal indications of value to determine if the
instrument is classified as Level 2 or Level 3. Based
upon the specific facts and circumstances of each
instrument or instrument category, judgments are made
regarding the significance of the Level 3 inputs to the
instruments  fair value measurement in its entirety. If
Level 3 inputs are considered significant, the
instrument is classified as Level 3.

151 

Table of Contents   

Note 16:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities ( continued)  

Upon the acquisition of Wachovia, we
elected to measure at fair value certain portfolios of
LHFS that we intend to hold for trading purposes and
that may be economically hedged with derivative
instruments. In addition, we elected to measure at
fair value certain letters of credit that are hedged
with derivative instruments to better reflect the
economics of the transactions. These letters of credit
are included in trading account assets or liabilities.

Determination of Fair Value  

In accordance with the Fair Value Measurements
and Disclosures topic of the Codification, we base our
fair values on the price that would be received to
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date. It is our policy to maximize the use
of observable inputs and minimize the use of
unobservable inputs when developing fair value
measurements, as prescribed in the fair value
hierarchy.

In instances where there is limited or no
observable market data, fair value measurements for
assets and liabilities are based primarily upon our own
estimates or combination of our own estimates and
independent vendor or broker pricing, and the
measurements are often calculated based on current
pricing policy, the economic and competitive
environment, the characteristics of the asset or
liability and other such factors. Therefore, the
results cannot be determined with precision and may not
be realized in an actual sale or immediate settlement
of the asset or liability. Additionally, there may be
inherent weaknesses in any calculation technique, and
changes in the underlying assumptions used, including
discount rates and estimates of future cash flows, that
could significantly affect the results of current or
future values.

We incorporate lack of liquidity into our fair
value measurement based on the type of asset measured
and the valuation methodology used. For example, for
residential MHFS and certain securities where the
significant inputs have become unobservable due to the
illiquid markets and vendor or broker pricing is not
used, we use a discounted cash flow technique to
measure fair value. This technique incorporates
forecasting of expected cash flows (adjusted for credit
loss assumptions and estimated prepayment speeds)
discounted at an appropriate market discount rate to
reflect the lack of liquidity in the market that a
market participant would consider. For other securities
where vendor or broker pricing is used, we use either
unadjusted broker quotes or vendor prices or vendor or
broker prices adjusted by weighting them with internal
discounted cash flow techniques to measure fair value.
These unadjusted vendor or broker prices inherently
reflect any lack of liquidity in the market as the fair
value measurement represents an exit price from a
market participant viewpoint.

As required by FASB ASC 825-10,  Financial
Instruments , following are descriptions of the
valuation methodologies used for assets and
liabilities recorded at fair value and for estimating
fair value for financial instruments not recorded at
fair value.

Assets  

SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL ASSETS  Short-term
financial assets include cash and due from banks,
federal funds sold and securities purchased under
resale agreements and due from customers on
acceptances. These assets are carried at historical
cost. The carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of
fair value because of the relatively short time between
the origination of the instrument and its expected
realization.

TRADING ASSETS (EXCLUDING DERIVATIVES) AND
SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE  Trading assets and
securities available for sale are recorded at fair
value on a recurring basis. Fair value measurement is
based upon quoted prices in active markets, if
available. Such instruments are classified within Level
1 of the fair value hierarchy. Examples include
exchange-traded equity securities and some highly
liquid government securities such as U.S.
Treasuries. When instruments are traded in secondary
markets and quoted market prices do not exist for such
securities, we generally rely on internal valuation
techniques or on prices obtained from independent
pricing services or brokers (collectively, vendors) or
combination thereof.

Trading securities are mostly valued using trader
prices that are subject to independent price
verification procedures. The majority of fair values
derived using internal valuation techniques are
verified against multiple pricing sources, including
prices obtained from independent vendors. Vendors
compile prices from various sources and often apply
matrix pricing for similar securities when no price is
observable. We review pricing methodologies provided by
the vendors in order to determine if observable market
information is being used, versus unobservable inputs.
When evaluating the appropriateness of an internal
trader price compared with vendor prices,
considerations include the range and quality of vendor
prices. Vendor prices are used to ensure the
reasonableness of a trader price; however valuing
financial instruments involves judgments acquired from
knowledge of a particular market and is not
perfunctory. If a trader asserts that a vendor price is
not reflective of market value, justification for using
the trader price, including recent sales activity where
possible, must be provided to and approved by the
appropriate levels of management.

Similarly, while securities available for sale
traded in secondary markets are typically valued using
unadjusted vendor prices or vendor prices adjusted by
weighting them with internal discounted cash flow
techniques, these prices are reviewed and, if deemed
inappropriate by a trader who has the most knowledge of
a particular market, can be adjusted. Securities
measured with these internal valuation techniques are
generally classified as Level 2 of the hierarchy and
often involve using quoted market prices for similar
securities, pricing models, discounted cash flow
analyses using significant inputs observable in the
market where available or combination of multiple
valuation techniques. Examples include certain
residential and commercial MBS, municipal bonds, U.S.
government and agency MBS, and corporate debt
securities.

152 

Table of Contents   

Security fair value measurements using significant
inputs that are unobservable in the market due to
limited activity or a less liquid market are classified
as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Such
measurements include securities valued using internal
models or combination of multiple valuation techniques
such as weighting of internal models and vendor or
broker pricing, where the unobservable inputs are
significant to the overall fair value measurement.
Securities classified as Level 3 include certain
residential and commercial MBS, asset-backed securities
collateralized by auto leases or loans and cash
reserves, CDOs and CLOs, and certain residual and
retained interests in residential mortgage loan
securitizations. CDOs are valued using the prices of
similar instruments, the pricing of completed or
pending third party transactions or the pricing of the
underlying collateral within the CDO. Where vendor or
broker prices are not readily available, management s
best estimate is used.

MORTGAGES HELD FOR SALE (MHFS)  We elected to
carry our new prime residential MHFS portfolio at fair
value in accordance with fair value option accounting
guidance. The remaining MHFS are carried at the lower
of cost or market value. Fair value is based on
independent quoted market prices, where available, or
the prices for other mortgage whole loans with similar
characteristics. As necessary, these prices are
adjusted for typical securitization activities,
including servicing value, portfolio composition,
market conditions and liquidity. Most of our MHFS are
classified as Level 2. For the portion where market
pricing data is not available, we use a discounted cash
flow model to estimate fair value and, accordingly,
classify as Level 3.

LOANS HELD FOR SALE (LHFS)  LHFS are carried
at the lower of cost or market value, or at fair
value for certain portfolios that we intend to hold
for trading purposes. The fair value of LHFS is based
on what secondary markets are currently offering for
portfolios with similar characteristics. As such, we
classify those loans subjected to nonrecurring fair
value adjustments as Level 2.

LOANS  For the carrying value of loans,
including PCI loans, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies  Loans) in this Report. We
do not record loans at fair value on a recurring basis.
As such, valuation techniques discussed herein for
loans are primarily for estimating fair value for
financial instruments in accordance with accounting
guidance on financial instruments. However, from time
to time, we record nonrecurring fair value adjustments
to loans to reflect (1) partial write-downs that are
based on the observable market price or current
appraised value of the collateral, or (2) the full
charge-off of the loan carrying value.

The fair value estimates for financial instruments
differentiate loans based on their financial
characteristics, such as product classification, loan
category, pricing features and remaining maturity.
Prepayment and credit loss estimates are evaluated by
product and loan rate.

The fair value of commercial and CRE and foreign
loans is calculated by discounting contractual cash
flows, adjusted

for credit loss estimates, using discount rates that
reflect our current pricing for loans with similar
characteristics and remaining maturity.

For real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien
mortgages, fair value is calculated by discounting
contractual cash flows, adjusted for prepayment and
credit loss estimates, using discount rates based on
current industry pricing (where readily available) or
our own estimate of an appropriate risk-adjusted
discount rate for loans of similar size, type,
remaining maturity and repricing characteristics.

For credit card loans, the portfolio s yield is
equal to our current pricing and, therefore, the fair
value is equal to book value adjusted for estimates of
credit losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance
sheet date.

For all other consumer loans, the fair value is
generally calculated by discounting the contractual
cash flows, adjusted for prepayment and credit loss
estimates, based on the current rates we offer for
loans with similar characteristics.

Loan commitments, standby letters of credit and
commercial and similar letters of credit are not
included in the table on page 160. These instruments
generate ongoing fees at our current pricing
levels, which are recognized over the term of the
commitment period. In situations where the credit
quality of the counterparty to a commitment has
declined, we record a reserve. A reasonable estimate of
the fair value of these instruments is the carrying
value of deferred fees plus the related reserve. This
amounted to $725 million at December 31, 2009, and $719
million at December 31, 2008. Certain letters of credit
that are hedged with derivative instruments are carried
at fair value in trading assets or liabilities. For
those letters of credit fair value is calculated based
on readily quotable credit default spreads, using a
market risk credit default swap model.

DERIVATIVES  Quoted market prices are
available and used for our exchange-traded derivatives,
such as certain interest rate futures and option
contracts, which we classify as Level 1. However,
substantially all of our derivatives are traded in
over-the-counter (OTC) markets where quoted market
prices are not readily available. OTC derivatives are
valued using internal valuation techniques. Valuation
techniques and inputs to internally-developed models
depend on the type of derivative and nature of the
underlying rate, price or index upon which the
derivative s value is based. Key inputs can include
yield curves, credit curves, foreign-exchange rates,
prepayment rates, volatility measurements and
correlation of such inputs. Where model inputs can be
observed in a liquid market and the model does not
require significant judgment, such derivatives are
typically classified as Level 2 of the fair value
hierarchy. Examples of derivatives classified as Level
2 include generic interest rate swaps, foreign currency
swaps, commodity swaps, and certain option and forward
contracts. When instruments are traded in less liquid
markets and significant inputs are unobservable, such
derivatives are classified as Level 3. Examples of
derivatives classified as Level 3 include complex and
highly structured derivatives, credit default swaps,
interest rate lock commitments written

153 

Table of Contents   

Note 16:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities ( continued)  

for our residential mortgage loans that we
intend to sell and long dated equity options where
volatility is not observable. Additionally,
significant judgments are required when classifying
financial instruments within the fair value hierarchy,
particularly between Level 2 and 3, as is the case for
certain derivatives.

MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS (MSRs) AND CERTAIN OTHER
INTERESTS HELD IN SECURITIZATIONS  MSRs and
certain other interests held in securitizations (e.g.,
interest-only strips) do not trade in an active market
with readily observable prices. Accordingly, we
determine the fair value of MSRs using a valuation
model that calculates the present value of estimated
future net servicing income. The model incorporates
assumptions that market participants use in estimating
future net servicing income, including estimates of
prepayment speeds (including housing price volatility),
discount rate, cost to service (including delinquency
and foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings,
contractual servicing fee income, ancillary income and
late fees. Commercial MSRs are carried at lower of cost
or market value, and therefore can be subject to fair
value measurements on a nonrecurring basis. For other
interests held in securitizations (such as
interest-only strips) we use a valuation model that
calculates the present value of estimated future cash
flows. The model incorporates our own estimates of
assumptions market participants use in determining the
fair value, including estimates of prepayment speeds,
discount rates, defaults and contractual fee income.
Interest-only strips are recorded as trading assets.
Fair value measurements of our MSRs and interest-only
strips use significant unobservable inputs and,
accordingly, we classify as Level 3.

FORECLOSED ASSETS  Foreclosed assets include
foreclosed properties securing residential, auto and
GNMA loans. Foreclosed assets are adjusted to fair
value less costs to sell upon transfer of the loans to
foreclosed assets. Subsequently, foreclosed assets are
carried at the lower of carrying value or fair value
less costs to sell. Fair value is generally based upon
independent market prices or appraised values of the
collateral and, accordingly, we classify foreclosed
assets as Level 2.

NONMARKETABLE EQUITY INVESTMENTS 
Nonmarketable equity investments are recorded
under the cost or equity method of accounting.
Nonmarketable equity securities that fall within the
scope of the AICPA Investment Company Audit Guide are
carried at fair value (principal investments). There
are generally restrictions on the sale and/or
liquidation of these investments, including federal
bank stock. Federal bank stock carrying value
approximates fair value. We use facts and circumstances
available to estimate the fair value of our
nonmarketable equity investments. We typically consider
our access to and need for capital (including recent or
projected financing activity), qualitative assessments
of the viability of the investee, evaluation of the
financial statements of the investee and prospects for
its future. Principal investments,

including
certain public equity and non-public
securities and certain investments in private equity
funds, are recorded at fair value with realized and
unrealized gains and losses included in gains and
losses on equity investments in the income statement,
and are included in other assets in the balance sheet.
Public equity investments are valued using quoted
market prices and discounts are only applied when there
are trading restrictions that are an attribute of the
investment. Investments in non-public securities are
recorded at our estimate of fair value using metrics
such as security prices of comparable public companies,
acquisition prices for similar companies and original
investment purchase price multiples, while also
incorporating a portfolio company s financial
performance and specific factors. For investments in
private equity funds, we use the NAV provided by the
fund sponsor as an appropriate measure of fair value.
In some cases, such NAVs require adjustments based on
certain unobservable inputs.

Liabilities  

DEPOSIT LIABILITIES  Deposit liabilities are
carried at historical cost. The Financial Instruments
topic of the Codification states that the fair value of
deposits with no stated maturity, such as
noninterest-bearing demand deposits, interest-bearing
checking, and market rate and other savings, is equal
to the amount payable on demand at the measurement
date. The fair value of other time deposits is
calculated based on the discounted value of contractual
cash flows. The discount rate is estimated using the
rates currently offered for like wholesale deposits
with similar remaining maturities.

SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL LIABILITIES  Short-term
financial liabilities are carried at historical cost
and include federal funds purchased and securities
sold under repurchase agreements, commercial paper and
other short-term borrowings. The carrying amount is a
reasonable estimate of fair value because of the
relatively short time between the origination of the
instrument and its expected realization.

OTHER LIABILITIES  Other liabilities recorded
at fair value on a recurring basis, excluding
derivative liabilities (see the   Derivatives   section
for derivative liabilities), includes short sale
liabilities and repurchase obligations (due to standard
representations and warranties) under our residential
mortgage loan contracts. Short sale liabilities are
classified as either Level 1 or Level 2, generally
dependent upon whether the underlying securities have
readily obtained quoted prices in active exchange
markets. The value of the repurchase obligations is
determined using a cash flow valuation technique
consistent with what market participants would use in
estimating the fair value. Key assumptions in the
valuation process are estimates for repurchase demands
and losses subsequent to repurchase. Such assumptions
are unobservable and, accordingly, we classify
repurchase obligations as Level 3.

154 

Table of Contents   

LONG-TERM DEBT  Long-term debt is carried at
amortized cost. However, we are required to estimate
the fair value of long-term debt in accordance with
accounting guidance on financial instruments.
Generally, the discounted cash flow method is used to
estimate the fair value of our long-term debt.
Contractual cash flows are discounted using rates
currently offered for new notes with similar
remaining

maturities and, as such, these discount rates
include our current spread levels.

Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis  

The table below presents the balances of
assets and liabilities measured at fair value on
a recurring basis.

(1) 
       
     Derivatives are reported net of cash collateral received and paid and, to the extent that
the criteria of the accounting guidance covering the offsetting of amounts related to certain
contracts are met, positions with the same counterparty are netted as part of a legally enforceable
master netting agreement. 

(2) 
       
     Includes trading securities of $24.0 billion and $19.5 billion at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

(3) 
       
     Derivative assets other
than trading and principal investments are included in this category. 

(4) 
       
     Derivative liabilities are included in this category. 

155 

Table of Contents   

Note 16:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities ( continued)  

The changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
are summarized as follows:

(continued on the following page) 

156 

Table of Contents   

(continued from previous page) 

(1) 
       
     The amounts presented as transfers into and out of Level 3 represent fair value as of the
beginning of the quarter in which each transfer occurred. 

(2) 
       
     Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and
management s estimates of fair value and excludes changes due to the collection/ realization of
cash flows over time. 

(3) 
       
     Included in other noninterest income in
the income statement.  

(4) 
       
     Included in mortgage
banking in the income statement. 

(5) 
       
     Represents total unrealized losses of $3.3 billion and $571 million, net of losses of $8 million and gains of $23 million related to
sales, in 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(6) 
       
     Included in mortgage
banking, trading activities and other noninterest income in the
income statement. 

For certain assets and liabilities, we
obtain fair value measurements from independent brokers
or independent third party pricing services and record
the unadjusted fair value in our financial statements.
The detail by level is shown in the table below. Fair
value measurements obtained from

independent brokers or independent third party
pricing services that we have adjusted to determine
the fair value recorded in our financial statements
are not included in the table below.

157 

Table of Contents   

Note 16:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities ( continued)  

Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis  

We may be required, from time to time, to
measure certain assets at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis in accordance with GAAP. These
adjustments to fair value usually result from
application of lower-of-cost-or-market accounting

or write-downs of individual assets. For assets
measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in
2009 and 2008 that were still held in the balance
sheet at each respective year end, the following
table provides the fair value hierarchy and the
carrying value of the related individual assets or
portfolios at year end.

(1) 
       
     Represents carrying value of loans for which adjustments are based on the appraised value
of the collateral. The carrying value of loans fully charged-off, which includes unsecured lines
and loans, is zero. 

(2) 
       
     Represents the fair value of foreclosed real estate and other collateral owned that were
measured at fair value subsequent to their initial classification as foreclosed assets. 

The following table presents the increase
(decrease) in value of certain assets that are
measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis for
which a fair value adjustment has

been included in the income statement, relating to
assets held at period end.

(1) 
       
     Represents write-downs of loans based on the appraised value of the collateral. 

(2) 
       
     Represents the losses on foreclosed real estate and other collateral owned that were measured
at fair value subsequent to their initial classification as foreclosed assets. 

158 

Table of Contents   

Fair Value Option  

The following table reflects the differences between fair value carrying amount of MHFS and
LHFS for which we

have elected the fair value option and the aggregate unpaid principal amount we are contractually
entitled to receive at maturity.

(1) 
   
     The difference between fair value carrying amount and aggregate unpaid principal includes
changes in fair value recorded at and subsequent to funding, gains and losses on the related loan
commitment prior to funding, and premiums on acquired loans. 

The assets accounted for under the fair value option are initially measured at fair value.
Gains and losses from initial measurement and subsequent changes in fair value are recognized in
earnings. The changes in fair values related

to initial measurement and subsequent changes in fair
value included in earnings for these assets measured at fair value are shown, by income statement
line item, below.

(1) 
       
     Includes changes in fair value of servicing associated with MHFS. 

Interest income on MHFS measured at fair value is calculated based on the note rate of the
loan and is recorded in interest income in the income statement.

For MHFS that are accounted for under the fair value option, the estimated amount of losses
included in earnings attributable to instrument-specific credit risk was $277 million and $648
million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. For performing loans,
instrument-specific credit risk gains or losses were derived principally by

determining the change in fair value of the loans due to changes in the observable or implied
credit spread. Credit spread is the market yield on the loans less the relevant risk-free benchmark
interest rate. Since the second half of 2007, spreads have been significantly impacted by the lack
of liquidity in the secondary market for mortgage loans. For nonperforming loans, we attribute all
changes in fair value to instrument-specific credit risk.

159 

Table of Contents   

Note 16:    Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities (   continued)  

Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments   The table
below is a summary of fair value estimates for financial instruments, excluding short-term
financial assets and liabilities because carrying amounts approximate fair value, and excluding
financial instruments recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. The carrying amounts in the
following table are recorded in the balance sheet under the indicated captions.

We have not included assets and liabilities that are not financial instruments in our disclosure,
such as the value of the long-term relationships with our deposit, credit card and

trust customers, amortized MSRs, premises and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, deferred
taxes and other liabilities. The total of the fair value calculations presented does not represent,
and should not be construed to represent, the underlying value of the Company.

The carrying amount of loans at December 31, 2008, in the table below includes $443.5 billion
acquired from Wachovia. Under the purchase method of accounting, these loans were recorded at fair
value upon acquisition, and accordingly, the carrying value and fair value at December 31, 2008
were the same.

Alternative Investments  

The following table summarizes our investments in various types of funds. We use the funds 
NAVs per share as a practical

expedient to measure fair value on recurring and nonrecurring bases. The fair values presented in
the table are based upon the funds  NAVs or an equivalent measure.

N/A   Not applicable. 

(1) 
       
     Includes investments in funds that invest primarily in investment grade European fixed-income
securities. Redemption restrictions are in place for investments with a fair value of $76 million
due to a lock-up provision that will remain in effect until November 2012. 

(2) 
       
     Represents funds that invest principally in publicly listed equity securities. For one
investment valued at $3 million, a gate provision has been imposed by the fund manager, and no
redemptions are currently allowed. This redemption restriction will remain in effect until January
2012. 

(3) 
       
     Consists of investments in equity, multi-strategy, and event driven hedge funds. Redemption
restrictions are in place for investments with a fair value of $10 million primarily because the
funds are subject to lock-up provisions or are in the process of liquidating. The redemption
restrictions are expected to remain in effect until January 2012. 

(4) 
       
     Includes private equity funds that invest in equity and debt securities issued by private and
publicly-held companies in connection with leveraged buy-outs, recapitalizations, and expansion
opportunities. Substantially all of these investments do not allow redemptions. Alternatively, we
receive distributions as the underlying assets of the funds liquidate, which we expect to occur
over the next 10 years. We have begun withdrawal proceedings for investments with a fair value of
$63 million and a 90-day redemption notice period. We expect to receive most of these funds by
March 31, 2013. 

(5) 
       
     Represents investments in funds that invest in domestic and foreign companies in a variety of
industries, including information technology, financial services, and healthcare. These investments
can never be redeemed with the funds. Instead, we receive distributions as the underlying assets of
the fund liquidate, which we expect to occur over the next 7 years. 

160 

Table of Contents   

Note 17:     Preferred Stock 

We are authorized to issue 20 million shares of preferred stock and 4 million shares of
preference stock, both without par value. Preferred shares outstanding rank senior to common shares
both as to dividends and liquidation

preference but have no general voting rights. We have not issued any preference shares under this
authorization.

The following table provides detail of preferred stock.

(1) 
       
    Series J, K and L preferred shares qualify as Tier 1 capital. 

(2) 
          
    In conjunction with the acquisition of Wachovia, at December 31, 2008, shares of Series J, K
and L perpetual preferred stock were converted into shares of a corresponding series of Wells Fargo
preferred stock having substantially the same rights and preferences. The carrying value is par
value adjusted to fair value in purchase accounting. 

In addition to the preferred stock issued and outstanding described in the table above, we
have the following preferred stock authorized with no shares issued and outstanding:

PREFERRED STOCK ISSUED TO THE DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY  On October 28, 2008, we issued
to the United States Department of the Treasury 25,000 shares of our Fixed Rate Cumulative
Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series D without par value, having a liquidation preference per share
equal to $1,000,000. Under its terms, the Series D Preferred Stock paid cumulative dividends at a
rate of 5% per year for the first five years. After obtaining the applicable regulatory approvals,
on December 23, 2009, we redeemed the Series D Preferred Stock by paying the Treasury $25.13
billion, equal to the liquidation preference plus accrued but unpaid dividends to the date of
redemption. In connection with the Series D Preferred Stock redemption, in the fourth quarter of
2009, we fully accreted the remaining discount at the time of redemption, or approximately $1.9
billion.

161 

Table of Contents   

Note 17:    Preferred Stock (   continued)  

As part of the preferred stock issuance in 2008, Treasury received a warrant to purchase
approximately 110.3 million shares of Wells Fargo common stock at an initial exercise price of
$34.01. The preferred stock proceeds from Treasury were allocated based on the relative fair value
of the warrant as compared with the fair value of the preferred stock. The fair value of the
warrant was determined using a third party proprietary pricing model that produces results similar
to the Black-Scholes model and incorporates a valuation model that incorporates assumptions
including our common stock price, dividend yield, stock price volatility and the risk-free interest
rate. We determined the fair value of the preferred stock based on assumptions regarding the
discount rate (market rate) on the preferred stock which was estimated to be approximately 13% at
the date of issuance. Prior to the December 23, 2009 redemption, the discount on the preferred
stock was being accreted to par value using a constant effective yield of 7.2% over a five-year
term, which was the expected life of the preferred stock.

ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  All shares of our ESOP (Employee Stock
Ownership Plan) Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (ESOP Preferred Stock) were issued to a
trustee acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan (the 401(k) Plan). Dividends on
the ESOP Preferred Stock are cumulative from the date of initial issuance and are payable quarterly
at annual rates ranging from 8.50% to 12.50%, depending upon the year of issuance. Each share of
ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the 401(k) Plan is converted into
shares of our common stock based on the stated value of the ESOP Preferred Stock and the then
current market price of our common stock. The ESOP Preferred Stock is also convertible at the
option of the holder at any time, unless previously redeemed. We have the option to redeem the ESOP
Preferred Stock at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price per share equal to the
higher of (a) $1,000 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends or (b) the fair market value, as
defined in the Certificates of Designation for the ESOP Preferred Stock.

(1) 
          
    Liquidation preference $1,000. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, additional
paid-in capital included $28 million and $35 million, respectively, related to preferred stock. 

(2) 

We recorded a corresponding charge to unearned ESOP shares in connection with the issuance of
the ESOP Preferred Stock. The unearned ESOP shares are reduced as shares of the ESOP Preferred
Stock are committed to be released. 

162 

Table of Contents   

Note 18:    Common Stock and Stock Plans 

Common Stock   The following table presents our reserved, issued and
authorized shares of common stock at December 31, 2009.

(1) 
       
    Includes employee option, restricted shares and restricted share rights, 401(k), profit
sharing and compensation deferral plans. 

Dividend Reinvestment and Common Stock   

Purchase Plans     
Participants in our dividend reinvestment and common
stock direct purchase plans may purchase shares of our common stock at fair market value by
reinvesting dividends and/or making optional cash payments, under the plan s terms.

Employee Stock Plans   
We offer the stock based employee compensation plans described below. We measure the cost of
employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments, such as stock options,
restricted share rights (RSRs) or performance shares, based on the fair value of the award on the
grant date. The cost is normally recognized in our income statement over the vesting period of the
award; awards with graded vesting are expensed on a straight line method. Awards to retirement
eligible employees are subject to immediate expensing upon grant. Total stock option compensation
expense was $221 million in 2009, $174 million in 2008 and $129 million in 2007 with a related
recognized tax benefit of $83 million, $65 million and $49 million for the same years,
respectively. Stock option expense is based on the fair value of the awards at the date of grant.

LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS  Our Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan provides
for awards of incentive and nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted
shares, RSRs, performance awards and stock awards without restrictions. Options must have an
exercise price at or above fair market value (as defined in the plan) of the stock at the date of
grant (except for substitute or replacement options granted in connection with mergers or other
acquisitions) and a term of no more than 10 years. Except for options granted in 2004 and 2005,
which generally vested in full upon grant, options generally become exercisable over three years
beginning on the first anniversary of the date

of grant. Except as otherwise permitted under the plan, if employment is ended for reasons other
than retirement, permanent disability or death, the option exercise period is reduced or the
options are canceled.

Options granted prior to 2004 may include the right to acquire a  reload  stock option. If an
option contains the reload feature and if a participant pays all or part of the exercise price of
the option with shares of stock purchased in the market or held by the participant for at least six
months and, in either case, not used in a similar transaction in the last six months, upon exercise
of the option, the participant is granted a new option to purchase, at the fair market value of the
stock as of the date of the reload, the number of shares of stock equal to the sum of the number of
shares used in payment of the exercise price and a number of shares with respect to related
statutory minimum withholding taxes. Reload grants are fully vested upon grant and are expensed
immediately.

Holders of RSRs are entitled to the related shares of common stock at no cost generally over three
to five years after the RSRs were granted. Holders of RSRs may be entitled to receive cash payments
or additional RSRs equal to the cash dividends that would have been paid had the RSRs been issued
and outstanding shares of common stock. RSRs granted as dividend equivalents are subject to the
same vesting schedule and conditions as the underlying RSRs. Except in limited circumstances, RSRs
are canceled when employment ends. The compensation expense for RSRs equals the quoted market price
of the related stock at the date of grant and is accrued over the vesting period. Total
compensation expense for RSRs was not significant in 2009 or 2008.

In 2009, a target amount of 949,000 performance shares were granted with a fair value of $27.09 per
share. The holder of each performance share may receive one share of our common stock at vesting in
the first quarter of 2013. The final number of performance shares that will be granted is subject
to the achievement of specified performance criteria over a three-year period ending December 31,
2012, and has a cap of 150% of the target amount of performance shares. Performance shares continue
to vest after retirement according to the original vesting schedule subject to satisfying the
performance criteria and other vesting conditions. Total compensation expense for performance
shares was $21 million in 2009.

A portion of annual bonus awards recognized during 2009 that are normally paid in cash will be paid
in our common stock as part of our agreement with the U.S. Treasury to repay our participation in
the TARP Capital Purchase Program (CPP). The fair value of the stock that will be issued is about
$50 million and there are no vesting conditions or other restrictions on the stock.

163 

Table of Contents   

Note 18:    Common Stock and Stock Plans (   continued)  

During 2009 the Board of Directors approved salary increases for certain executive officers
that were paid, after taxes and other withholdings, in our common stock. About 245,000 shares were
issued in 2009 for salary increases at an average fair value of $27.77. There are no longer
restrictions on these shares because we repaid the TARP CPP investment in Wells Fargo in December
2009.

For various acquisitions and mergers, we converted employee and director stock options of acquired
or merged companies into stock options to purchase our common stock based on the terms of the
original stock option plan and the agreed-upon exchange ratio. In addition, we converted restricted
stock awards into awards that entitle holders to our stock after the vesting conditions are met.
Holders receive cash dividends on outstanding awards if provided in the original award.

The total number of shares of common stock available for grant under the plans at December 31,
2009, was 304 million.

PARTNERSHARES    PLAN  In 1996, we adopted the  PartnerShares     Stock Option Plan, a
broad-based employee stock option plan. It covers full- and part-time employees who generally were
not included in the long-term incentive compensation plan described above. No options have been
granted under the plan since 2002, and as a result of action taken by the Board of Directors on
January 22, 2008, no future awards will be granted under the plan. All of our  PartnerShares  Plan
grants were fully vested as of December 31, 2007.

Director Plan  

We grant common stock and options to purchase common stock to non-employee directors elected
or re-elected at the annual meeting of stockholders and prorated awards to directors who join the
Board at any other time. The stock award vests immediately. Options granted in 2008 or earlier can
be exercised after six months through the tenth anniversary of the grant date. Prior to 2009, stock
awards and option grants were made to non-employee directors under the Directors Stock Compensation
and Deferral Plan. As a result of action taken by the Board of Directors on September 30, 2008,
stock awards and options granted in 2009 were made under our Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan.
Options granted in 2009 can be exercised after 12 months through the tenth anniversary of the grant
date.

The table below summarizes stock option activity and related information. Options assumed in
mergers are included in the activity and related information for Incentive Compensation Plans if
originally issued under an employee plan, and in the activity and related information for Director
Plans if originally issued under a director plan.

(1) 
       
    Adjusted for estimated forfeitures. 

164 

Table of Contents   

As of December 31, 2009, there was $186 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to
stock options. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.9 years.
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during 2009 and 2008 was $50 million and $348
million, respectively.

Cash received from the exercise of options for 2009 and 2008 was $153 million and $747 million,
respectively. The actual tax benefit recognized in stockholders  equity for the tax deductions from
the exercise of options totaled $18 million and $123 million, respectively, for 2009 and 2008.

We do not have a specific policy on repurchasing shares to satisfy share option exercises. Rather,
we have a general policy on repurchasing shares to meet common stock issuance requirements for our
benefit plans (including share option exercises), conversion of our convertible securities,
acquisitions and other corporate purposes. Various factors determine the amount and timing of our
share repurchases, including our capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for
acquisitions and employee benefit plans, market conditions (including the trading price of our
stock), and regulatory and legal considerations. These factors can change at any time, and there
can be no assurance as to the number of shares we will repurchase or when we will repurchase them.

The fair value of each option award granted on or after January 1, 2006, is estimated using a
Black-Scholes valuation model. The expected term of options granted is generally based on the
historical exercise behavior of full-term options. Our expected volatilities are based on a
combination of the historical volatility of our common stock and implied volatilities for traded
options on our common stock. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury zero-coupon yield
curve in effect at the time of grant. Both expected volatility and the risk-free rates are based on
a period commensurate with our expected term. For 2009, the expected dividend is based on a fixed
dividend amount. For 2008 and 2007, the expected dividend was based on the current dividend,
consideration of our historical pattern of dividend increases and the market price of our stock. We
changed our method of estimating the expected dividend assumption from a yield approach to a fixed
amount due to our participation in the TARP CPP during 2009, which restricted us from increasing
our dividend without approval from the U.S. Treasury. A dividend yield approach models a constant
dividend yield, which was considered inappropriate given the restriction on our ability to increase
dividends.

The following table presents the weighted-average per share fair value of options granted and the
assumptions used, based on a Black-Scholes option valuation model.

At December 31, 2009, there was $22 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related
to nonvested RSRs. The cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.3
years. The total fair value of RSRs that vested during 2009 and 2008 was $2 million and $1 million,
respectively.

A summary of the status of our RSRs and restricted share awards at December 31, 2009, and changes
during 2009 is in the following table:

The weighted-average grant
date fair value of RSRs granted during 2008 was $29.68.

165 

Table of Contents   

Note 18:    Common Stock and Stock Plans (   continued)  

Employee Stock Ownership Plan    
Under the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan (the 401(k) Plan) and the Wachovia Savings Plan
(the Savings Plan), defined contribution plans with an ESOP feature, these plans may borrow money
to purchase our preferred or common stock. From 1994 through 2008, we have loaned money to the
401(k) Plan to purchase shares of our ESOP Preferred Stock. As we release and convert ESOP
Preferred Stock into common shares, we record compensation expense equal to the current market
price of the common shares. Dividends on the common shares allocated as a result of the release and
conversion of the ESOP Preferred Stock reduce retained earnings and the shares are considered
outstanding for computing earnings per share. Dividends on the unallocated ESOP Preferred Stock do
not reduce retained earnings, and the shares are not considered to be common stock equivalents for
computing earnings per share. Loan principal and interest payments are made from our contributions
to the Wells Fargo 401(k) Plan, along with dividends paid on the ESOP Preferred Stock. With each
principal and interest payment, a portion of the ESOP Preferred Stock is released and, after
conversion of the ESOP Preferred Stock into common shares, allocated to the Wells Fargo 401(k) Plan
participants.

The Savings Plan contains a similar loan option except in the form of ESOP Common Stock. Dividends
on the common shares allocated as a result of the release of ESOP Common Stock reduce retained
earnings and the shares are considered outstanding for computing earnings per share. Dividends on
the unallocated ESOP Common Stock do not reduce retained earnings, and the shares are not
considered to be common stock equivalents for computing earnings per share. Loan principal and
interest payments are made from our contributions to the Wachovia Savings Plan. With each principal
and interest payment, a portion of the ESOP Common Stock is released and allocated to the Wachovia
Savings Plan participants.

In October 2009, the Wells Fargo Stock Fund and the Wells Fargo ESOP Fund held in the 401(k) Plan
were combined to create a surviving Wells Fargo ESOP Fund. The Savings Plan was merged into the
401(k) Plan on December 31, 2009. Any outstanding ESOP loan previously held by the Savings Plan is
now held by the 401(k) Plan.

The balance of ESOP shares, the dividends on allocated shares of common stock and unreleased
preferred shares paid to the 401(k) Plan and the fair value of unearned ESOP shares were:

Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent   Sales Agents    
WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Parent formed
solely to sponsor a deferred compensation plan for independent sales agents who provide investment,
financial and other qualifying services for or with respect to participating affiliates. The

Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors, which became effective January
1, 2002, allows participants to defer all or part of their eligible compensation payable to them by
a participating affiliate. The Parent has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the deferred
compensation obligations of WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. under the plan.

166 

Table of Contents   

Note 19:    Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 

Employee Benefits   
We sponsor a noncontributory qualified defined benefit retirement plan, the Wells Fargo  
Company Cash Balance Plan (Cash Balance Plan), which covers eligible employees of Wells Fargo; the
benefits earned under the Cash Balance Plan were frozen effective July 1, 2009.

On April 28, 2009, the Board of Directors approved amendments to freeze the benefits earned under
the Wells Fargo qualified and supplemental Cash Balance Plans and the Wachovia Corporation Pension
Plan, a cash balance plan that covered eligible employees of the legacy Wachovia Corporation, and
to merge the Wachovia Pension Plan into the qualified Cash Balance Plan. These actions became
effective on July 1, 2009.

Prior to July 1, 2009, eligible employees  cash balance plan accounts were allocated a compensation
credit based on a percentage of their qualifying compensation. The compensation credit percentage
was based on age and years of credited service. The freeze discontinues the allocation of
compensation credit for services after June 30, 2009. Investment credits continue to be allocated
to participants based on their accumulated balances. Employees become vested in their Cash Balance
Plan accounts after completing three years of vesting service.

Freezing and merging the above plans effective July 1, 2009, resulted in a re-measurement of the
pension obligations and plan assets as of April 30, 2009. Freezing and re-measuring decreased the
pension obligations by approximately $945 million and decreased cumulative OCI by approximately
$725 million pre tax ($456 million after tax) in second quarter 2009. The re-measurement resulted
in a decrease in the fair value of plan assets of approximately $150 million. We used a discount
rate of 7.75% for the April 30, 2009, re-measurement based on our consistent methodology of
determining our discount rate based on an established yield curve developed by our outside
actuarial firm. This methodology incorporates a broad group of top quartile Aa or higher rated
bonds.

As a result of freezing our pension plans, we revised our amortization life for actuarial gains and
losses from 5 years to 13 years to reflect the estimated average remaining participation period.

These actions lowered pension cost by approximately $500 million for 2009, including $67 million of
one-time curtailment gains.

We did not make a contribution to our Cash Balance Plan in 2009. We do not expect that we will be
required to make a contribution to the Cash Balance Plan in 2010; however, this is dependent on the
finalization of the actuarial valuation. Our decision of whether to make a contribution in 2010
will be based on various factors including the actual investment performance of plan assets during
2010. Given these uncertainties, we cannot estimate at this time the amount, if any, that we will
contribute in 2010 to the Cash Balance Plan. 

The total amount contributed for our other pension plans in 2009 was $83 million. For the unfunded
nonqualified pension plans and postretirement benefit plans, we will contribute the minimum
required amount in 2010, which equals the benefits paid under the plans. In 2009, we paid $167
million in benefits for the postretirement plans, which included $79 million in retiree
contributions.

We sponsor defined contribution retirement plans including the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan
(401(k) Plan) and the Wachovia Savings Plan (Savings Plan). We also have a frozen defined
contribution plan resulting from a company acquired by Wachovia. No contributions are permitted to
that plan. Under the 401(k) Plan, after one month of service, eligible employees may contribute up
to 25% of their pre-tax qualifying compensation, although there may be a lower limit for certain
highly compensated employees in order to maintain the qualified status of the 401(k) Plan. Eligible
employees who complete one year of service are eligible for matching company contributions, which
are generally a 100% match up to 6% of an employee s qualifying compensation. Prior to January 1,
2010, matching contributions generally vested over the first four years of an eligible employee s
service period. Effective January 1, 2010, prior and future matching contributions will be 100%
vested.

Under the Savings Plan, after one month of service, eligible employees may contribute up to 30% of
their qualifying compensation on a pre tax, Roth, or after-tax basis, although there may be a lower
limit for certain highly compensated employees in order to maintain the qualified status of this
Savings Plan. Eligible employees who complete one year of service are eligible for matching company
contributions, which are generally a 100% match up to 6% of an employee s qualifying compensation.
The matching contributions vest immediately. Effective December 31, 2009, the Savings Plan was
merged with the 401(k) Plan.

In 2009, the 401(k) Plan and the Savings Plan were amended to permit us to make discretionary
profit sharing contributions. Based on 2009 earnings, we committed to make a contribution in shares
of common stock to the plan accounts of eligible employees equaling 1% of qualifying compensation,
which resulted in recognizing $150 million of defined contribution retirement plan expense recorded
in 2009.

Expenses for defined contribution retirement plans were $862 million, $411 million and $426 million
in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

We provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain retired employees and reserve the
right to terminate or amend any of the benefits at any time.

The information set forth in the following tables is based on current actuarial reports using the
measurement date of December 31 for our pension and postretirement benefit plans.

167 

Table of Contents   

Note 19:    Employee Benefits and Other Expenses (   continued)  

In conjunction with our adoption of changes in accounting provisions for retirement benefits,
we were required to change the measurement date for our pension and postretirement plan assets and
benefit obligations from November 30 to December 31 beginning in 2008. To reflect this change, we
recorded an $8 million (after tax) adjustment to the 2008 beginning balance of retained earnings.

The changes in the projected benefit obligation of pension benefits and the accumulated benefit
obligation of other benefits and the fair value of plan assets during 2009 and 2008, the funded
status at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the amounts recognized in the balance sheet at December
31, 2009 and 2008, were:

(1) 
       
    Represents change in benefit obligation and plan assets during December 2007 to reflect an
additional month of activity due to the change in measurement date from November 30 to December 31
as required by FASB ASC 715. 

Amounts recognized in accumulated OCI (pre tax) for the year ended December 31, 2009 and
2008, consist of:

The net actuarial loss for the defined benefit pension plans
that will be amortized from accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit
cost in 2010 is $107 million. The net actuarial

loss and net prior service credit for the other postretirement plans that will be amortized from
accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit cost in 2010 are $1 million and $4 million, respectively.

168 

Table of Contents   

The weighted-average assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation were:

(1) 
       
    Includes both qualified and nonqualified benefits. 

(2) 
       
    Due to the freeze of the Wells Fargo qualified and supplemental Cash Balance plans and the
Wachovia Corporate Pension Plan, there is no rate of compensation increase at December 31, 2009. 

We use a consistent methodology to determine the discount rate that is based on an
established yield curve methodology. This methodology incorporates a broad group of top quartile Aa
or higher rated bonds consisting of approximately 100-150 bonds. The discount rate is determined by
matching this yield curve with the timing and amounts of the expected benefit payments for our
plans.

The accumulated benefit obligation for the defined benefit pension plans was $10.7 billion and $9.4
billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

We seek to achieve the expected long-term rate of return with a prudent level of risk given the
benefit obligations of the pension plans and their funded status. Our overall investment strategy
is designed to provide our Cash Balance Plan with a balance of long-term growth opportunities and
short-term benefit strategies while ensuring that risk is mitigated through diversification across
numerous asset classes and various investment strategies. We target the asset allocation for our
Cash Balance Plan at a target mix range of 35-65% equities, 30-50% fixed income, and approximately
10-15% in real estate, venture capital, private equity and other investments. The target ranges
referenced above account for the employment of an asset allocation methodology designed to
overweight stocks or bonds when a compelling opportunity exists. The Employee Benefit Review
Committee (EBRC), which includes several members of senior management, formally reviews the
investment risk and performance of our Cash Balance Plan on a quarterly basis. Annual Plan
liability analysis and periodic asset/liability evaluations are also conducted.

The table below provides information for pension plans with benefit obligations in excess of plan
assets.

The components of net periodic benefit cost were:

169 

Table of Contents   

Note 19:    Employee Benefits and Other Expenses (   continued)  

The weighted-average assumptions used to determine the net periodic benefit cost were:

(1) 
       
     Includes both qualified and nonqualified pension benefits. 

(2) 
       
     Due to the freeze of the Wells Fargo qualified and supplemental Cash Balance Plans and the
Wachovia Corporation Pension Plan, the discount rate for the 2009 Pension benefits was the
weighted average of 6.75% from January through April and 7.75% from May through December. 

Our determination of the reasonableness of our expected long-term rate of return on plan
assets is highly quantitative by nature. We evaluate the current asset allocations and expected
returns under two sets of conditions: projected returns using several forward-looking capital
market assumptions, and historical returns for the main asset classes dating back to 1970, the
earliest period for which historical data was readily available as of a common time frame for the
asset classes included. Using data dating back to 1970 allows us to capture multiple economic
environments, which we believe is relevant when using historical returns. We place greater emphasis
on the forward looking return and risk assumptions than on historical results. We use the resulting
projections to derive a base line expected rate of return and risk level for the Cash Balance
Plans  prescribed asset mix. We then adjust the baseline projected returns for items not already
captured, including the anticipated return differential from active over passive investment
management and the estimated impact of an asset allocation methodology that allows for established
deviations from the specified target allocations when a compelling opportunity exists.

We evaluate the portfolio based on: (1) the established target asset allocations over short term
(one-year) and longer term (ten-year) investment horizons, and (2) the range of potential outcomes
over these horizons within specific standard deviations. We perform the above analyses to assess
the reasonableness of our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. We consider the
expected rate of return to be a long-term average view of expected returns. The expected rate of
return would be assessed for significant long-term changes in economic conditions or in planned
portfolio composition.

To account for postretirement health care plans we use health care cost trend rates to recognize
the effect of expected changes in future health care costs due to medical inflation, utilization
changes, new technology, regulatory requirements and Medicare cost shifting. We assumed average
annual increases of approximately 9.5% (before age 65) and 9% (after age 65) for health care costs
for 2010. The rates of average annual increases are assumed to trend down 0.5% each year until the
trend rates reach an ultimate trend of 5% in 2017 (before age 65) and 2016 (after age 65).
Increasing the assumed health care trend by one percentage point in each year would increase the
benefit obligation as of December 31, 2009, by $71 million and the total of the interest cost and

service cost components of the net periodic benefit cost for 2009 by $5 million. Decreasing the
assumed health care trend by one percentage point in each year would decrease the benefit
obligation as of December 31, 2009, by $63 million and the total of the interest cost and service
cost components of the net periodic benefit cost for 2009 by $4 million.

The investment strategy for assets held in the Retiree Medical Plan Voluntary Employees 
Beneficiary Association (VEBA) trust is established separately from the strategy for the assets in
the Cash Balance Plan. The general target asset mix is 45-65% equities and 35-55% fixed income. In
addition, the strategy for the VEBA trust assets considers the effect of income taxes by utilizing
a combination of variable annuity and low turnover investment strategies. Members of the EBRC
formally review the investment risk and performance of these assets on a quarterly basis.

Future benefits that we expect to pay under the pension and other benefit plans are presented in
the following table.

Other benefits payments are expected to be reduced by prescription drug subsidies from the
federal government provided by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
2003, as follows:

170 

Table of Contents   

Fair Value of Plan Assets  

The following table presents the balances of pension plan

assets
measured at fair value. See Note 16 in this Report for fair value hierarchy level definitions.

(1) 
       
     This category includes assets that are primarily intermediate duration, investment grade
bonds held in investment strategies benchmarked to the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond Index.
Includes U.S. Treasury securities, agency and non-agency asset-backed bonds and corporate bonds. 

(2) 
       
     This category covers a broad range of investment styles, both active and passive approaches, as
well as style characteristics of value, core and growth emphasized strategies. Assets in this
category are currently diversified across ten unique investment strategies. Approximately 40% of
the assets within this category are passively managed to popular mainstream market indexes
including the Standard   Poor s 500 Index; excluding the allocation to the S P 500 Index strategy,
no single investment manager represents more than 2% of total plan assets. 

(3) 
       
     This category consists of a highly diversified combination of seven distinct investment
management strategies with no single strategy representing more than about 2% of total plan assets.
Allocations in this category are primarily spread across actively managed approaches with distinct
value and growth emphasized approaches in fairly equal proportions. 

(4) 
       
     This category includes assets diversified across nine unique investment strategies providing
exposure to companies based primarily in developed market, non-U.S. countries with no single
strategy representing more than 2% of total plan assets. 

(5) 
       
     This category mostly includes investments in private and public real estate, as well as timber
specific limited partnerships; real estate holdings are diversified by geographic location and
sector (e.g., retail, office, apartments). 

(6) 
       
     This category consists of several investment strategies managed by over 30 hedge fund managers.
Single manager allocation exposure is limited to 0.15% (15 basis points) of total plan assets. 

The changes in Level 3 pension plan assets measured at fair value are summarized as follows:

(1) 
       
     All unrealized gains (losses) relate to instruments held at period end. 

171 

Table of Contents   

Note 19:    Employee Benefits and Other Expenses (   continued)  

Other benefits plan assets include assets held in a 401(h) trust, which are invested using
the same asset allocation targets as the Cash Balance Plan, and assets held in a VEBA

trust. The table below presents the balances of other benefits plan assets measured at fair value.

(1) 
       
     This category includes assets that are primarily intermediate duration, investment grade
bonds held in investment strategies benchmarked to the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond Index.
Includes U.S. Treasury securities, agency and non-agency asset-backed bonds and corporate bonds. 

(2) 
       
     This category covers a broad range of investment styles, both active and passive approaches, as
well as style characteristics of value, core and growth emphasized strategies. The majority of the
assets are passively managed to popular mainstream market indexes including the Standard   Poor  s
500 Index. 

(3) 
       
     This category includes assets diversified across several unique investment strategies providing
exposure to companies based primarily in developed market, non-U.S. countries. 

The changes in Level 3 other benefits plan assets measured at fair value are summarized as
follows:

(1) 
       
     All unrealized gains (losses) relate to instruments held at period end. 

172 

Table of Contents   

VALUATION METHODOLOGIES  Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for
assets measured at fair value.

Cash
and Cash Equivalents    includes investments in U.S. Treasury bills, valued at quoted market
prices and collective investment funds. Investments in collective investment funds are valued at
fair value based upon the quoted market values of the underlying net assets. The unit price is
quoted on a private market that is not active; however, the unit price is based on underlying
investments traded on an active market.

Intermediate
(Core), High-Yield, International and Specialty Fixed Income    includes bonds and
notes traded on a national securities exchange valued at the last reported sale price on the last
business day of the year. Also includes investments traded on the OTC market and listed securities
for which no sale was reported on that date; both are valued at the average of the last reported
bid and ask prices. Also includes investments in collective investment funds described above.

Domestic,
International and Emerging Market Stocks   investments in common stock are valued at
quoted market values. Investments in registered investment companies
are valued at the NAV of shares
held at year end. Also includes investments in collective investment funds described above.

Real
Estate and Timber    the fair value of real estate and timber is estimated based primarily on
appraisals prepared by third-party appraisers. Market values are estimates and the actual market
price of the real estate can only be determined by negotiation between independent third parties in
a sales transaction.

Multi-Strategy
Hedge Funds and Private Equity    the fair values of hedge funds are valued based on
the proportionate share of the underlying net assets of the investment funds that comprise the
fund, based on valuations supplied by the underlying investment funds. Investments in private
equity funds are valued at the NAV provided by the fund sponsor. Market values are estimates and
the actual market price of the investments can only be determined by negotiation between
independent third parties in a sales transaction.

Other
   the fair values of miscellaneous investments are valued at the NAV provided by the fund
sponsor. Market values are estimates and the actual market price of the investments can only be
determined by negotiation between independent third parties in a sales transaction. Also includes
insurance contracts that are generally stated at cash surrender value.

The methods described above
may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or
reflective of future fair values. While we believe our valuation methods are appropriate and
consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to
determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different fair value
measurement at the reporting date.

Other Expenses  

Expenses exceeding 1% of total interest income and noninterest income in any of the years
presented that are not otherwise shown separately in the financial statements or Notes to Financial
Statements were:

173 

Table of Contents   

Note 20:    Income Taxes 

The components of income tax expense were:

The tax benefit related to the exercise of employee stock options recorded in stockholders 
equity was $18 million, $123 million and $210 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

We had a net deferred tax asset of $3.2 billion and $13.9 billion for 2009 and 2008,
respectively. Our net deferred tax asset and the tax effects of temporary differences that gave
rise to significant portions of these deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented in the
preceding table.

Deferred
taxes related to net unrealized losses on securities available for
sale, net unrealized  gains on derivatives, foreign currency
translation, and employee benefit plan adjustments are recorded in
cumulative OCI (see Note 22 in this Report). These associated
adjustments decreased OCI by $5.9 billion. Deferred taxes totaling
$2.7 billion were recorded against goodwill related to purchase price
refinements (see Note 2 in this Report). Deferred taxes of $1.4
billion were also recorded on the purchase of the Prudential
noncontrolling  interest on December 31, 2009, with the associated
adjustment increasing stockholders  equity.

      We have determined that a valuation reserve is required for 2009 in the amount of $827 million
primarily attributable to deferred tax assets in various state and foreign jurisdictions where we
believe it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will not be realized. In these
jurisdictions, carry back limitations, lack of sources of taxable income, and tax planning
strategy limitations contributed to our conclusion that the deferred tax assets would not be
realizable. We have concluded that it is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax
assets will be realized based on our history of earnings, sources of taxable income in carry back
periods, and our ability to implement tax planning strategies.

At December 31, 2009, we had net operating loss and credit carry forwards with related deferred tax
assets of $3.0 billion and $366 million, respectively. If these carry forwards are not utilized,
they will expire in varying amounts through 2029.

At December 31, 2009, Wachovia had undistributed foreign earnings of $1.4 billion related to
foreign subsidiaries. We intend to reinvest these earnings indefinitely outside the U.S. and
accordingly have not provided $464 million of income tax liability on these earnings.

174 

Table of Contents   

The table below reconciles the statutory federal income tax expense and rate to the effective
income tax expense and rate. Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance that
changed the way noncontrolling interests are presented in the income statement such that the
consolidated

income statement includes amounts from both Wells Fargo interests and the noncontrolling interests.
As a result, our effective tax rate is calculated by dividing income tax expense by income before
income tax expense less the net income from noncontrolling interests.

Income tax expense for 2009 increased primarily due to higher pre-tax earnings partially
offset by favorable tax settlements.

The change in unrecognized tax benefits follows:

(1) 
       
     Unrecognized tax benefits from the Wachovia acquisition. 

Of the $4.9 billion of unrecognized tax benefits at
December 31, 2009, approximately $2.8 billion would, if recognized, affect the effective tax rate.
The remaining $2.1 billion of unrecognized tax benefits relates to income tax positions on
temporary differences.

We recognize interest and penalties as a component of income tax expense. We accrued approximately
$771 million and $1.6 billion for the payment of interest and penalties at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively. The decrease in accrued interest is primarily related to the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) settlement agreements (described below) on sale-in, lease-out (SILO) transactions. A
net benefit from interest income and penalties expense of $72 million (after tax) for 2009 and
interest expense of $62 million (after tax) for 2008 was recognized as a component of income tax
expense.

We are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income tax in numerous state and foreign
jurisdictions. With few exceptions, Wells Fargo and its subsidiaries are not subject to federal
income tax examinations for taxable years prior to 2007, and state, local and foreign income tax
examinations for taxable years prior to 2005. Wachovia Corporation and its subsidiaries, with few
exceptions, are no longer subject to federal income tax examinations for taxable years prior to
2006, and state, local and foreign income tax examinations for taxable years prior to 2003.

We are routinely examined by tax authorities in various jurisdictions. The IRS is currently
examining the consolidated federal income tax returns of Wachovia and its Subsidiaries for tax
years 2006 through 2008. In addition, Wachovia is appealing various issues related to its 2000
through 2005 tax years. Wachovia is also currently subject to examination by various state, local
and foreign taxing authorities. While it is possible that one or more of these examinations may be
resolved within the next twelve months, we do not anticipate that there will be a significant
impact to our unrecognized tax benefits as a result of these examinations.

The IRS is examining the 2007 and 2008 consolidated federal income tax returns of Wells Fargo  
Company and its Subsidiaries. We are also litigating or appealing various issues related to our
prior IRS examinations for the periods 1997-2006. We have paid the IRS the contested income tax
associated with these issues and refund claims have been filed for the respective years. We are
also under examination in numerous other taxing jurisdictions. While it is possible that one or
more of these examinations may be resolved within the next 12 months, we do not anticipate that
these examinations will significantly impact our uncertain tax positions.

175 

Table of Contents   

Note 20:    Income Taxes (   continued)  

During fourth quarter 2009, we and the IRS executed settlement agreements in accordance with
the IRS s settlement initiative related to certain leveraged leases that the IRS considers SILO
transactions. These settlement agreements resolved the SILO transactions originally entered into by
Wachovia and reduced our tax exposure on our overall SILO portfolio by approximately 90%. As a
result of this resolution, our unrecognized tax benefits decreased $2.7 billion.

In September 2006, well before the IRS announced its SILO settlement initiative in August 2008, we
filed a federal tax refund suit in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims related to certain SILO
transactions we entered into between 1997 and 2002. Wells Fargo did not receive a letter from the
IRS inviting us to participate in the SILO settlement initiative. On January 8, 2010, the U.S.
Court of Federal Claims issued an adverse opinion on certain of the transactions at issue in the
litigation. Because the opinion did not resolve all of the

transactions at issue, final judgment has not yet been entered by the court. Once final judgment is
entered, we will have 60 days to file our Notice of Appeal. There will be no adverse financial
statement impact resulting from the judgment, and no penalties have been asserted by the government
in the litigation.

During fourth quarter 2009, we filed a federal tax refund suit relating to our 2003 tax year in
U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota. At issue in the litigation is a structured
finance transaction, the timing of our deduction for certain state taxes, and SILO transactions
entered into between 1997 and 2003. No penalties have been asserted in connection with this
litigation.

We are estimating that our unrecognized tax benefits could decrease by between $100 million and
$300 million during the next 12 months primarily related to statute expirations and settlements.

Note 21:    Earnings Per Common Share 

The table below shows earnings per common share and diluted earnings per common share and
reconciles the numerator and denominator of both earnings per common share calculations.

At December 31, 2009 and 2008, options to purchase 242.7 million and 172.4 million shares and a
warrant to pur-

chase 110.3 million and 110.3 million shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in
the calculation of diluted earnings per common share because the exercise price was higher than the
market price, and therefore were antidilutive. At December 31, 2007, options to purchase 13.8
million shares were antidilutive.

176 

Table of Contents   

Note 22:    Other Comprehensive Income 

The components of other comprehensive income (OCI) and the related tax effects were:

Cumulative OCI balances were:

(1) 
       
     Adoption of accounting change related to pension and other postretirement benefits as
required by FASB ASC 715. 

177 

Table of Contents   

Note 23:    Operating Segments 

As a result of the combination of Wells Fargo and Wachovia, in first quarter 2009, management
realigned its segments into the following three lines of business for management reporting:
Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. The results for these
lines of business are based on our management accounting process, which assigns balance sheet and
income statement items to each responsible operating segment. This process is dynamic and, unlike
financial accounting, there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance for management accounting
equivalent to GAAP. The management accounting process measures the performance of the operating
segments based on our management structure and is not necessarily comparable with similar
information for other financial services companies. We define our operating segments by product
type and customer segment. If the management structure and/or the allocation process changes,
allocations, transfers and assignments may change. We revised prior period information to reflect
the first quarter 2009 realignment of our operating segments; however, because the acquisition was
completed on December 31, 2008, Wachovia s results are not included in the income statement or in
average balances for periods prior to 2009.

Community Banking  offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services to
consumers and small businesses with annual sales generally up to $20 million in which the owner
generally is the financial decision maker. Community Banking also offers investment management and
other services to retail customers and securities brokerage through affiliates. These products and
services include the  Wells Fargo Advantage Funds  SM , a family of mutual funds. Loan
products include lines of credit, equity lines and loans, equipment and transportation
(recreational vehicle and marine) loans, education loans, origination and purchase of residential
mortgage loans and servicing of mortgage loans and credit cards. Other credit products and
financial services available to small businesses and their owners include receivables and inventory
financing, equipment leases, real estate financing, Small Business Administration financing,
venture capital financing, cash management, payroll services, retirement plans, Health Savings
Accounts and merchant payment processing. Consumer and business deposit products include checking
accounts, savings deposits, market rate accounts, Individual Retirement Accounts, time deposits and
debit cards.

Community Banking serves customers through a complete range of channels, including traditional
banking stores, in-store banking centers, business centers, ATMs, and  Wells Fargo Customer
Connection , a 24-hours a day, seven days a week telephone service. Online banking services include
single sign-on to online banking, bill pay and brokerage, as well as online banking for small
business.

Community Banking also includes Wells Fargo Financial consumer finance and auto finance operations.
Consumer

finance operations make real estate loans to individuals in the United States and the Pacific Rim,
and also make direct consumer loans to individuals and purchase sales finance contracts from retail
merchants from offices throughout the United States, and in Canada and the Pacific Rim. Auto
finance operations specialize in purchasing sales finance contracts directly from auto dealers in
Puerto Rico and making loans secured by autos in the United States and Puerto Rico. Wells Fargo
Financial also provides credit cards, lease and other commercial financing.

Wholesale Banking  provides financial solutions to businesses across the United States with annual
sales generally in excess of $10 million and to financial institutions globally. Wholesale Banking
provides a complete line of commercial, corporate, capital markets, cash management and real estate
banking products and services. These include traditional commercial loans and lines of credit,
letters of credit, asset-based lending, equipment leasing, mezzanine financing, high-yield debt,
international trade facilities, trade financing, collection services, foreign exchange services,
treasury management, investment management, institutional fixed-income sales, interest rate,
commodity and equity risk management, online/electronic products such as the  Commercial Electronic
Office     ( CEO    ) portal, insurance, corporate trust fiduciary and agency services, and investment
banking services. Wholesale Banking also supports the CRE market with products and services such as
construction loans for commercial and residential development, land acquisition and development
loans, secured and unsecured lines of credit, interim financing arrangements for completed
structures, rehabilitation loans, affordable housing loans and letters of credit, permanent loans
for securitization, CRE loan servicing and real estate and mortgage brokerage services.

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement  provides a full range of financial advisory, lending, fiduciary,
and investment management services to clients using a comprehensive planning approach to meet each
client s needs. Wealth
Management uses an integrated model to provide affluent and high-net-worth customers with a
complete range of wealth management solutions and services. Family Wealth meets the unique needs of
ultra-high-net-worth customers managing multi-generational assets those with at least $50 million
in assets. Retail Brokerage s financial advisors serve customers 
advisory, brokerage and financial needs, including investment management, portfolio monitoring and
estate planning as part of one of the largest full-service brokerage firms in the United States.
They also offer access to banking products, insurance, and investment banking services. First
Clearing LLC, our correspondent clearing firm, provides technology, product and other business
support to broker-dealers across the United States. Retirement supports individual investors 
retirement needs and is a leader in 401(k) and pension record keeping, investment services, trust
and custody solutions for

178 

Table of Contents   

U.S. companies and their employees. The division also provides investments and executive benefits
to institutional clients and delivers reinsurance services to global insurance companies.

Other  includes corporate items (such as integration expenses) not specific to a business segment
and elimination of certain items that are included in more than one business segment.

(1) 
       
     Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on assets and the cost of
liabilities to fund those assets. Interest earned includes actual interest earned on segment
assets and, if the segment has excess liabilities, interest credits for providing funding to other
segments. The cost of liabilities includes interest expense on segment liabilities and, if the
segment does not have enough liabilities to fund its assets, a funding charge based on the cost of
excess liabilities from another segment. 

(2) 
       
     Represents segment net income (loss) for Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth,
Brokerage and Retirement segments and Wells Fargo net income for the Consolidated Company. 

(3) 
       
     Includes integration expenses and the elimination of items that are included in both Community
Banking and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement, largely representing wealth management customers
serviced and products sold in the stores. 

179 

Table of Contents   

Note 24:     Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements 

Following are the condensed consolidating financial statements of the Parent and Wells Fargo
Financial, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (WFFI). In 2002, the Parent issued a full and
unconditional guarantee of all outstanding term debt securities and commercial paper of WFFI. WFFI
ceased filing periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act

of 1934 and is no longer a separately rated company. The Parent also guaranteed all outstanding
term debt securities of Wells Fargo Financial Canada Corporation (WFFCC), WFFI s wholly-owned
Canadian subsidiary. WFFCC has continued to issue term debt securities and commercial paper in
Canada, unconditionally guaranteed by the Parent.

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income 

180 

Table of Contents   

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income 

181 

Table of Contents   

Note 24:    Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements (   continued)  

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets 

182 

Table of Contents   

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows 

183 

Table of Contents   

Note 24:    Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements (   continued)  

Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows 

Note 25:    Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements 

The Company and each of its subsidiary banks
are subject to various regulatory capital adequacy
requirements administered by the Federal Reserve
Board (FRB) and the OCC, respectively. The Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
1991 (FDICIA) required that the federal regulatory
agencies adopt regulations defining five capital
tiers for banks: well capitalized, adequately
capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly
undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized.
Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can
initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional
discretionary, actions by regulators that, if
undertaken, could have a direct material effect on
our financial statements.

Quantitative measures, established by the
regulators to ensure capital adequacy, require that
the Company and each of the subsidiary banks
maintain minimum ratios (set forth in the following
table) of capital to risk-weighted assets. There are
three categories of capital under the guidelines.
Tier 1 capital includes common stockholders  equity,
qualifying preferred stock and trust preferred
securities, less goodwill and certain other
deductions (including a portion of servicing assets
and the unrealized net gains and losses, after
taxes, on securities available for sale). Tier 2
capital includes preferred stock not qualifying as
Tier 1 capital, subordinated debt, the allowance for
credit losses and net unrealized gains

184 

Table of Contents   

on marketable equity securities, subject to
limitations by the guidelines. Tier 2 capital is
limited to the amount of Tier 1 capital (i.e., at
least half of the total capital must be in the form
of Tier 1 capital). Tier 3 capital includes certain
qualifying unsecured subordinated debt.

We do not consolidate our wholly-owned trusts
(the Trusts) formed solely to issue trust
preferred securities. The amount of trust
preferred securities and perpetual preferred
purchase securities issued by the Trusts that was
includable in Tier 1 capital in accordance with
FRB risk-based capital (RBC) guidelines was $19.3
billion at December 31, 2009. The junior
subordinated debentures held by the Trusts were
included in the Company s long-term debt. See Note
13 in this Report for additional information on trust preferred
securities.

Under the guidelines, capital is compared with
the relative risk related to the balance sheet. To
derive the risk included in the balance sheet, a
risk weighting is applied to each balance sheet
asset and off-balance sheet item, primarily based on
the relative credit risk of the counterparty. For
example, claims

guaranteed by the U.S. government or one of its
agencies are risk-weighted at 0% and certain real
estate related loans risk-weighted at 50%.
Off-balance sheet items, such as loan commitments
and derivatives, are also applied a risk weight
after calculating balance sheet equivalent amounts.
A credit conversion factor is assigned to loan
commitments based on the likelihood of the
off-balance sheet item becoming an asset. For
example, certain loan commitments are converted at
50% and then risk-weighted at 100%. Derivatives are
converted to balance sheet equivalents based on
notional values, replacement costs and remaining
contractual terms. See Notes 6 and 15 in this Report for further
discussion of off-balance sheet items. For certain
recourse obligations, direct credit substitutes,
residual interests in asset securitization, and
other securitized transactions that expose
institutions primarily to credit risk, the capital
amounts and classification under the guidelines are
subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators
about components, risk weightings and other
factors.

(1) 
       
     The leverage ratio consists of Tier 1 capital divided by quarterly average total assets,
excluding goodwill and certain other items. The minimum leverage ratio guideline is 3% for banking
organizations that do not anticipate significant growth and that have well-diversified risk,
excellent asset quality, high liquidity, good earnings, effective management and monitoring of
market risk and, in general, are considered top-rated, strong banking organizations. 

Management believes that, as of
December 31, 2009, the Company and each of the
covered subsidiary banks met all capital adequacy
requirements to which they are subject.

The most recent notification from the OCC
categorized each of the covered subsidiary banks as
well capitalized, under the FDICIA prompt corrective
action provisions applicable to banks. To be
categorized as well capitalized, the institution
must maintain a total RBC ratio as set forth in the
table above and not be subject to a capital
directive order. There are no conditions or events
since that notification that management believes
have changed the RBC category of any of the covered
subsidiary banks.

Certain subsidiaries of the Company are
approved seller/servicers, and are therefore
required to maintain minimum levels of shareholders 
equity, as specified by various agencies, including
the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development, GNMA, FHLMC and FNMA. At December 31,
2009, each seller/servicer met these requirements.

Certain broker-dealer subsidiaries of the
Company are subject to SEC Rule 15c3-1 (the Net
Capital Rule), which requires that we maintain
minimum levels of net capital, as defined. At
December 31, 2009, each of these subsidiaries met
these requirements.

185 

Table of Contents   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Wells Fargo   Company:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Wells Fargo   Company and
Subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated
statements of income, changes in equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the
years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009. These consolidated financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2009 and
2008, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its
method of evaluating other-than-temporary impairment for debt securities in 2009 and certain
investment securities in 2008.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2009, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated
February 26, 2010, expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s
internal control over financial reporting.

San Francisco, California 
February 26, 2010

186 

Table of Contents   

Quarterly Financial Data  

Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income   Quarterly (Unaudited) 

(1) Based on daily prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting
System.

187 

Table of Contents   

Glossary of Acronyms  

ABCP 

Asset-backed commercial paper 

AICPA 

American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants 

ALCO 

Asset/Liability Management Committee 

AMTN 

Australian medium-term note programme 

ARS 

Auction rate security 

ASC 

Accounting Standards Codification 

ASU 

Accounting Standards Update 

ARM 

Adjustable-rate mortgage 

AVM 

Automated valuation model 

CDs 

Certificates of deposit 

CDO 

Collateralized debt obligation 

CLO 

Collateralized loan obligation 

CMO 

Collateralized mortgage obligation 

CPP 

Capital Purchase Program 

CPR 

Constant prepayment rate 

CRE 

Commercial real estate 

EITF 

Emerging Issues Task Force 

EMTN 

European medium-term note programme 

ESOP 

Employee Stock Ownership Plan 

FAS 

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 

FASB 

Financial Accounting Standards Board 

FDIC 

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 

FHA 

Federal Housing Administration 

FHLB 

Federal Home Loan Bank 

FHLMC 

Federal Home Loan Mortgage Company 

FICO 

Fair Isaac Corporation (credit rating) 

FNMA 

Federal National Mortgage Association 

FRB 

Federal Reserve Board 

FSP 

FASB Staff Position 

GAAP 

Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 

GNMA 

Government National Mortgage Association 

GSE 

Government-sponsored entity 

IRA 

Individual Retirement Account 

LHFS 

Loans held for sale 

LIBOR 

London Interbank Offered Rate 

LTV 

Loan-to-value 

MBS 

Mortgage-backed security 

MHFS 

Mortgages held for sale 

MSR 

Mortgage servicing right 

NAV 

Net asset value 

NPA 

Nonperforming asset 

OCC 

Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 

OCI 

Other comprehensive income 

OTC 

Over-the-counter 

OTTI 

Other-than-temporary impairment 

PCI Loans 

Purchased credit-impaired loans are acquired
loans with evidence of credit deterioration
accounted for under FASB ASC 310-30
(AICPA Statement of Position 03-3) 

PTPP 

Pre-tax pre-provision profit 

QSPE 

Qualifying special purpose entity 

RBC 

Risk-based capital 

ROA 

Wells Fargo net income to average total assets 

ROE 

Wells Fargo net income applicable
to common stock to average Wells Fargo
common stockholders  equity 

SCAP 

Supervisory Capital Assessment Program 

SEC 

Securities and Exchange Commission 

S P 

Standard   Poors 

SIV 

Structured investment vehicle 

SPE 

Special purpose entity 

TARP 

Troubled Asset Relief Program 

TDR 

Troubled debt restructuring 

TLGP 

Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program 

VA 

Department of Veterans Affairs 

VaR 

Value-at-risk 

VIE 

Variable interest entity 

WFFCC 

Wells Fargo Financial Canada Corporation 

WFFI 

Wells Fargo Financial, Inc. and
its wholly-owned subsidiaries 

188 

Table of Contents   

Codification Cross Reference  

Codification Topic   
       
       Superseded Authoritative Accounting Literature   

FASB
ASC 260,  Earnings Per Share 

FAS 128,  Earnings Per Share,  and
FSP EITF 03-6-1,  Determining Whether Instruments
Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions
are Participating Securities  

FASB ASC 310,  Receivables 

FAS 114,  Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of A Loan,
an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 15,  and
AICPA SOP 03-3,  Accounting for Certain Loans
or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer  

FASB
ASC 320,  Investments   Debt and Equity Securities 

FSP FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2,  Recognition and
Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments  

FASB
ASC 715,  Compensation   Retirement Benefits 

FAS 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an amendment
of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R),  and
FSP FAS 132(R)-1,  Employers  Disclosures 
 about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets  

FASB ASC 718,  Compensation   Stock Compensation 

FAS 123(R),  Share-Based Payment  

FASB ASC 805,  Business Combinations 

FAS 141(R),  Business Combinations  

FASB ASC 810,  Consolidation 

FAS 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated
Financial Statements   an amendment of ARB No. 51, 
FAS 167,  Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R),  and
FIN 46(R),  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities   
 an amendment of ARB No. 51  

FASB ASC 815,  Derivatives and Hedging 

FAS 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities,  and
FAS 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities   an amendment of
FASB Statement No. 133  

FASB ASC 820,  Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures 

FAS 157,  Fair Value Measurements  

FASB ASC 820-10,  Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures 

FSP FAS 157-4,  Determining Fair Value When
the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or
Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying
Transactions That Are Not Orderly  

FASB ASC 825,  Financial Instruments 

FAS 107,  Disclosures about Fair Value
of Financial Instruments, 
FAS 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets
and Financial Liabilities   Including an Amendment
of FASB Statement No. 115,  and
FSP FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1,  Interim Disclosures
about Fair Value of Financial Instruments  

FASB
ASC 855,  Subsequent Events 

FAS 165,  Subsequent Events  

FASB ASC 860,  Transfers and Servicing 

FAS 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing
of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities  
A Replacement of FASB Statement 125,
 FAS 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets  
an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140,  and
FAS 166,  Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets  
an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140  

189 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 10
 f54129exv21.htm
 EX-21

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

1005 Corp.

North Carolina 

110 Monastery Associates, Limited Partnership

Massachusetts 

1368 Euclid Street Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

150 Miami Associates Tenant, LLC

Florida 

1st Capital Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

2007 Vento II, LLC

Delaware 

425 South Tryon Street, LLC

North Carolina 

509 Vine Street Tenant, L.P.

Pennsylvania 

660 Master, LLC

Ohio 

A. G. Edwards Technology Group, Inc.

Missouri 

A. G. Edwards Technology Partners

Missouri 

A.G. Edwards   Sons, LLC

Delaware 

A.G. Edwards Capital, Inc.

Delaware 

A.G. Edwards Hedging Services, Inc.

Nevada 

A.G. Edwards Private Equity Partners II, L.P.

Delaware 

A.G. Edwards Private Equity Partners QP II, L.P.

Delaware 

A.G. Edwards Private Equity Partners QP, L.P.

Delaware 

A.G. Edwards Private Equity Partners, L.P.

Delaware 

A.G. Edwards, Inc.

Delaware 

ABCA, Inc

Florida 

ACAS/WCM, LLC

Delaware 

ACO Brokerage Holdings Corporation

Delaware 

Acordia of Indiana, Inc.

Indiana 

Advance Mortgage

Virginia 

Advantage Mortgage Partners, LLC

Delaware 

AGE Capital Holding, Inc.

Delaware 

AGE International, Inc.

Delaware 

AGE Investments, Inc.

Delaware 

AHC Limited Partnership - 10

Virginia 

AHC Limited Partnership - 11

Virginia 

AHG Tax Credit Fund I, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund II, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund III, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund IV, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund IX, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund V, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund VI, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund VII, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund X, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund XII L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund XIV, L.L.C.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund XVI, L.P.

Delaware 

AHG Tax Credit Fund XVII, L.P.

Delaware 

1 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

AHG Tax Credit Fund XVIII, LLC

Delaware 

AILS, Inc.

Delaware 

Alano Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Alces Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Alliance Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Alta Mesa AZ, LLC

Delaware 

Alternative Strategies Group, Inc.

North Carolina 

Alternative Strategies Managed Futures   Commodities Platform, LLC

Delaware 

Alternative Strategies Platform, LLC

Delaware 

Alternative Strategies Real Estate Platform, LLC

Delaware 

AM/F Managing Member, LLC

Delaware 

AM/F-2 Managing Member, LLC

Delaware 

AM/F-4A Managing Member, LLC

Delaware 

Amber Asset Management Inc.

Maryland 

American Capital/Wachovia CDO Investor Fund, L.P.

Delaware 

American E   S Insurance Brokers California, Inc.

California 

American Mortgage Network, LLC

Delaware 

American Priority Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

American Securities Company

California 

American Securities Company of Missouri

Missouri 

American Securities Company of Nevada

Nevada 

American Securities Company of Utah

Utah 

American Southern Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

American Tobacco SCP, LP

Maryland 

Amnet Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Ao Cheng Ltd

British Virgin Islands 

APM Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Ascent Financial Services, LLC

Delaware 

ASGI Hedged Equities, Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

ASGI Hedged Equities, Super Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

ASGI Multi-Strategy Fund II, Super Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

ASGI Multi-Strategy, Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

ASGI Multi-Strategy, Super Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

Ashton Woods Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Aspen Delaware Funding, LLC

Delaware 

ATC Realty Fifteen, Inc.

California 

ATC Realty Nine, Inc.

California 

ATC Realty Sixteen, Inc.

California 

Atlas - OCI Enhanced Loan Income Fund LLC

Delaware 

Atlas Capital Funding, Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

Atlas Loan Funding (CENT I), LLC

Delaware 

Atlas Loan Funding (Hartford), LLC

Delaware 

Atlas Loan Funding (Navigator), LLC

Delaware 

2 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Atlas Loan Funding 2, LLC

Delaware 

Augusta Landings Raleigh, LLC

Delaware 

Augustus Ventures, L.L.C.

Nevada 

Aurora GP Holding, LLC

Delaware 

AZ-#3644 Jackson, LLC

Delaware 

Azalea Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Bacon Housing, L.P.

Virginia 

BAFSC/WLC CX HUP I Trust

Delaware 

BAFSC/WLC CX HUP II Trust

Delaware 

BAFSC/WLC CX HUP, Ltd.

Bermuda 

Bankers Funding Company, LLC

Delaware 

Barrington Crestview GA, LLC

Delaware 

Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards Housing Investors, Inc.

California 

Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards Realty Co., Incorporated

California 

Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards Realty Services, Inc.

California 

BEHR Housing Investors 1981-1, L.P.

California 

Belgravia Mortgage Group, LLC

Delaware 

Benefit Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Bergamasco Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Berks Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

Besso Holdings Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Operational Support Services Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Re Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Risk Solutions Ltd

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Special Groups Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Besso Transportation Limited

United Kingdom-England 

BGMCO PA, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

BHS Home Loans, LLC

Delaware 

Biggs Building SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Biscoe Finance, LLC

Delaware 

Bitterroot Asset Management, Inc.

Cayman Islands 

Blue Spirit Insurance Company

Vermont 

Bluebonnet Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

BluePoint Holdings Limited

Bermuda 

Bluffwalk Center Lessee, L.P.

Virginia 

Bluffwalk SCP, L.L.C.

Virginia 

Boettcher Properties, Ltd.

Colorado 

Bowler Housing L.P.

Virginia 

BPL Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

B-R Penn Tenant, LLC

Pennsylvania 

Bridgewater Falls Hamilton, LLC

Delaware 

Brittlebush Financing, LLC

Nevada 

3 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Bryan, Pendleton, Swats   McAllister, LLC

Tennessee 

Business Development Corporation of South Carolina

South Carolina 

CACC SCP, LP

Virginia 

CACC Tenant, LP

Virginia 

Calibre Advisory Services, Inc.

Delaware 

Canal Walk Lofts II L.P.

Virginia 

Canal Walk Lofts II SCP L.P.

Virginia 

Canal Walk Lofts III SCP L.P.

Virginia 

Canal Walk Lofts III Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

Canal Walk Lofts Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

Capitol Finance Group, Inc.

North Carolina 

Capitol Places IV, LLC

South Carolina 

Capstone Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Cardinal Finance LLC

Delaware 

Cardinal Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Cardinal International Leasing Holding Corp

Delaware 

Cardinal International Leasing, LLC

Delaware 

Carnation Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Carolina Mortgage/CDJ, LLC

Delaware 

CAROLINA/CONSOLIDATED SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Caveness Partners, LLC

Delaware 

CBC Affinity Groups Limited

United Kingdom-England 

CBC UK Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Centennial Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Central Federal Mortgage Company

Not Required 

Central Fidelity Capital Trust I

Delaware 

Central Fidelity Properties, Inc.

Virginia 

Centurion Agency Nevada, Inc.

Nevada 

Centurion Casualty Company

Iowa 

Centurion Funding, Inc.

California 

Centurion Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Centurion Life Insurance Company

Iowa 

Century Bancshares, Inc.

Texas 

Century Capital Trust

Delaware 

Century Mill Investors LLC

Delaware 

Cervus Funding, L.P.

Delaware 

CGT Insurance Company LTD.

Barbados 

Charter Holdings, Inc.

Nevada 

Chestnut Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Choice Mortgage Servicing, LLC

Delaware 

City First Capital III, LLC

Delaware 

City First Capital V, LLC

Delaware 

City First Capital XI, LLC

Delaware 

4 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

City Market Lofts SCP, LLC

North Carolina 

City Market Lofts Tenant, LLC

North Carolina 

City Place Buckhead, LLC

Delaware 

CityLife Lending Group, LLC

Delaware 

CMLB 2001, LLC

Delaware 

CNB Investment Trust I

Maryland 

CNB Investment Trust II

Maryland 

Collin Equities, Inc.

Texas 

Colorado Capital Management Co, LLC

Delaware 

Colorado Mortgage Alliance, LLC

Delaware 

Colorado Professionals Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

CoLTS LLC 2005-1

Delaware 

CoLTS LLC 2005-2

Delaware 

CoLTS LLC 2007-1

Delaware 

Columbine Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Columbus RI Operator, LLC

North Carolina 

Congress Financial Capital (US) Corporation

Delaware 

Congress Financial Capital Company

Canada-Nova Scotia 

Congress Financial Capital Corporation (Canada)

Canada-Ontario 

Consortium America II, LLC

Delaware 

Conway Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Cookman Restoration L.L.C.

New Jersey 

CoreStates Capital I

Delaware 

CoreStates Capital II

Delaware 

CoreStates Capital III

Delaware 

CoreStates Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Crocker Properties, Inc.

California 

CTB Realty Ventures XXI, Inc.

Connecticut 

CWC MT, LLC

Virginia 

CWC SCP, LLC

Virginia 

Danube Holdings I C.V.

Netherlands 

Danube Holdings II C.V.

Netherlands 

Danube Holdings III C.V.

Netherlands 

DE Capital Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

DFG Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

DH Financial, LLC

Delaware 

Dial Finance Company, Inc.

Nevada 

Dial National Community Benefits, Inc.

Nevada 

Diversified Finance Investments, LLC

Delaware 

DNA Investments Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Dooley Transport, LLC

Delaware 

Downtown Revival Limited Partnership

Pennsylvania 

Dulles Station Herndon, LLC

Delaware 

5 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Eastdil Secured, L.L.C.

New York 

Eaton Village Associates, Ltd. Co.

New Mexico 

ECM Holdings Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Edgeworth SCP, LLC

Virginia 

Edward Jones Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Edwards Development Corporation

Missouri 

EIMCO Trust

Massachusetts 

Electric Building Tenant LLC

Mississippi 

Elf Tenant, L.P.

Virginia 

Elite Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Ellis Advertising, Inc.

Iowa 

EnerVestWachovia CoInvestment Partnership, L.P.

Delaware 

Epic Funding Corporation

California 

Equity Insurance Agency, Inc.

New Jersey 

Estates at Dunwoody Park GA, LLC

Delaware 

European Credit Management Limited

United Kingdom 

EVEREN Capital Corporation

Delaware 

Everen Leasing, LLC

Delaware 

Evergreen Alternative Capital, Inc.

Delaware 

Evergreen Asset Management Corp.

New York 

Evergreen ECM Holdings B.V.

Netherlands 

Evergreen Financing Company, LLC

Delaware 

Evergreen International SMID Cap Absolute Return Offshore Fund Ltd

UK-Cayman Islands 

Evergreen International SMID Cap Absolute Return Offshore Master Fund Ltd

UK-Cayman Islands 

Evergreen International SMID Cap Absolute Return, LLC

Delaware 

Evergreen Investment Company, Inc.

North Carolina 

Evergreen Investment Management Company, LLC

Delaware 

Evergreen Investment Management Trust

Delaware 

Evergreen Investment Services, Inc.

Delaware 

Evergreen Offshore SMID Cap Holding Co., LLC

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Equity Fund II, L. P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Equity Fund, L.P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Investment Funds-Absolute Return Fund, Super Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Investment Funds-Global MultiStrategy Fund, Accredited, L.P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Private Investment Funds-Hedged Opportunities Fund, Accredited, L. P.

Delaware 

Evergreen Service Company LLC

Delaware 

Evergreen Worldwide Distributors, Ltd.

Bermuda 

Evergreen Worldwide U.S. Dollar Fund, Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

Express Financial   Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

FA Recruiting Services, LLC

Texas 

Fairways 340 LLC

Delaware 

Falcon Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Fannin County Equestrian Community, LLC

Delaware 

6 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Farmington, Incorporated

North Carolina 

FC Ashton Mill Master Lessee, LLC

Rhode Island 

FC CONSOLIDATED MASTER LESSEE, LLC

Ohio 

FC Edgeworth Lessor, LLC

Virginia 

FC Edgeworth Master Lessee, LLC

Virginia 

FC Lucky Strike Lessor, LLC

Virginia 

FC Lucky Strike Master Lessee, LLC

Virginia 

FCC-PR, Inc

Puerto Rico 

FFL Services Corporation

New Jersey 

Fidelcor Business Credit Corporation

New York 

Finvercon USA, Inc.

Nevada 

First Associates Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

First Citizens SC Capital Trust II

Delaware 

First Clearing, LLC

Delaware 

First Commonwealth Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

First Community Capital Trust I

Delaware 

First Community Capital Trust II

Delaware 

First Community Capital Trust III

Delaware 

First Consumer Services, Inc.

New Jersey 

First Fidelity Urban Investment Corporation

New Jersey 

First Financial (CA) Statutory Trust I

Connecticut 

First International Advisors, LLC

Delaware 

First Mortgage Consultants, LLC

Delaware 

First National Properties, Inc.

South Carolina 

First Penco Realty, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

First Peninsula Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

First Security Capital I

Delaware 

First State Service Corporation

North Carolina 

First Union Capital I

Delaware 

First Union Capital II

Delaware 

First Union Commercial Leasing Group, L.L.C.

North Carolina 

First Union Community Development Corporation

Virginia 

First Union Financial Investments, LLC

Tennessee 

First Union Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund I, LLC

Delaware 

First Union Holdings, LLC

Tennessee 

First Union I, Inc.

US-Virgin Islands 

First Union Institutional Capital I

Delaware 

First Union Institutional Capital II

Delaware 

First Union Insurance Group Trust I

Delaware 

First Union Rail Corporation

North Carolina 

First Union Title Corporation

Georgia 

Five Star Lending, LLC

Delaware 

Flagstone Apartment Property, LLC

Delaware 

7 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Florida Home Finance Group, LLC

Delaware 

FNL Insurance Company

Vermont 

Foothill Capital Corporation

California 

Foothill Group, Inc., The

Delaware 

Foothill Group, LLC, The

Delaware 

Foresight Business Plaza Investment Company Limited

Barbados 

Forest Glen Ballroom, LLC

Wisconsin 

Forest Glen Main Master Tenant, LLC

Maryland 

Forum Capital Markets, LLC

Delaware 

Foundation Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

FPFC Management LLC

New Mexico 

FSD Master Tenant, LLC

North Carolina 

Fullerton Towers Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Fulton Homes Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

FUNC Holdings, Inc.

Florida 

G. C. Leasing, Inc.

Virginia 

G/WDC 541 N Fairbanks, LLC

Delaware 

Galliard Capital Management, Inc.

Minnesota 

Garden-Howe Urban Renewal Associates, L.P.

New Jersey 

GBB Capital II

Delaware 

GBB Capital III

Delaware 

GBB Capital IV

Delaware 

GBB Capital VI

Delaware 

GBB Capital VIII

Delaware 

General Homes Corp.

Texas 

Genesis Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Gibraltar Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

Gibraltar Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Global Flying Insurance Services Limited

UK-England 

Golden Capital Management, LLC

Delaware 

Golden Funding Company

Cayman Islands 

Golden Pacific Insurance Company

Vermont 

Golden West Savings Association Service Co.

California 

Goldenrod Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Great East Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Great Plains Insurance Company

Vermont 

Greater Atlanta Financial Services, LLC

Delaware 

Greater Bay Bancorp

California 

Greenfield Funding, LLC

Minnesota 

GreenPath Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Greenridge Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

Greensboro-Richmond Properties, LLC

Delaware 

GS Bridgeport I CDE, LLC

Delaware 

8 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

GS Private Equity Partners IX ASW Fund, LLC

Delaware 

Guarantee Pacific Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Gunther HQ Federal LLC

Maryland 

GWFC, LP

Delaware 

H. Bernstein Insurance Brokers Limited

United Kingdom-England 

H.D. Vest Advisory Services, Inc.

Texas 

H.D. Vest Insurance Agency, L.L.C.

Texas 

H.D. Vest Insurance Agency, L.L.C.

Montana 

H.D. Vest Insurance Agency, L.L.C.

Massachusetts 

H.D. Vest Investment Securities, Inc.

Texas 

H.D. Vest, Inc.

Texas 

HADBO Investments C.V.

Netherlands 

Hallmark Mortgage Group, LLC

Delaware 

Hanover/FUDC Master Limited Partnership

Delaware 

Harrier Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Haskell Limited Partnership

Massachusetts 

Havanese Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Head Crown Development Limited

British Virgin Islands 

Headhouse Retail Associates, L.P.

Pennsylvania 

Hendricks Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Heritage Home Mortgage Group, LLC

Delaware 

Heritage Indemnity Company

California 

Heritage Mechanical Breakdown Corporation

Delaware 

Highland Glen, LLC

Delaware 

Historic West Elementary, LLC

Wisconsin 

Hokkaido Apartments LLC

Delaware 

Home Loan Experts, Inc.

California 

Home Mortgage Specialists, LLC

Delaware 

Home Services Title Reinsurance Company

Vermont 

Homeservices Lending, LLC

Delaware 

Horizon Management Services, Inc.

Florida 

HSM/WDC Kansas City Portfolio, LLC

Delaware 

HSM/WDC Pinetree, LLC

Delaware 

HSM/WDC Regency, LLC

Delaware 

HSM/WDC Westbrooke I, LLC

Delaware 

HSM/WDC Westbrooke II, LLC

Delaware 

HS-ORLANDO FL, LLC

Delaware 

Iapetus Funding, LLC

Delaware 

IBID, Inc.

Delaware 

Iilustrated Properties Mortgage Company, LLC

Delaware 

IJL 2004, LLC

North Carolina 

Integrated Capital Group, Inc.

California 

Integrity Home Funding, LLC

Delaware 

9 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

InterWest Capital Trust I

Delaware 

IntraWest Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Ironbrand Capital LLC

North Carolina 

Island Finance Credit Services, Inc.

New York 

Island Finance Holding Company, LLC

Cayman Islands 

Island Finance New York, Inc.

New York 

Island Finance Puerto Rico, Inc.

Delaware 

Island Finance Sales Finance Corporation

Cayman Islands 

Island Finance Sales Finance Trust

Puerto Rico 

IWIC Insurance Company

Vermont 

J. L. Kaplan Associates, LLC

Delaware 

JC-Warren MI, LLC

Delaware 

JERSEY CENTER/FIDOREO, INC.

New Jersey 

Johnston Mill Master Tenant, LP

Georgia 

Jordan Investments GP

UK-Cayman Islands 

Jordan Investments LP

UK-Cayman Islands 

JPSD, Inc.

Delaware 

Kardon/Atlantic Associates, L.P.

Pennsylvania 

Keller Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Kidron Partners IV, LP

Minnesota 

Killdeer Capital Company, LLC

Delaware 

KW Investment Co., Ltd.

Japan 

KW Residential, LLC

Delaware 

KW/WDC Apartment Portfolio, LLC

Delaware 

KW/WDC Beaverton, LLC

Delaware 

KW/WDC Sacramento LLC

Delaware 

KW/WDC Vallejo LLC

Delaware 

KW/WDC Westmoreland, LLC

Delaware 

KWI America Multifamily, LLC

Delaware 

Lake Spivey Senior Living/WDC, LLC

Delaware 

Lamont SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Landfill Portfolio, LLC

Delaware 

Landmark Equity Partners XIV ASW Fund, LLC

Delaware 

Legacy Glenn Partnership, LLC

Georgia 

Legacy Mortgage

Delaware 

LG-354 Lewisville TX, LLC

Delaware 

Lincoln Building Corporation

Colorado 

Linear Financial, LP

Delaware 

Lordship, LLC

Delaware 

Lowry Hill Investment Advisors, Inc.

Minnesota 

LYNX 2002-I, Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

MAA/NCF SUB-CDE, LLC

Not Required 

Mackerel Lane Carolina Beach, LLC

Delaware 

10 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Macro*World Research Corporation

North Carolina 

Macro*World Research Philippines Inc.

Philippines 

Marben Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Marigold Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Marigold International Limited

Cayman Islands 

Marina Towers Melbourne, LLC

Delaware 

Market Villas SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Martha Turner Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Maryland Housing Equity Fund III Limited Partnership

Maryland 

Mastiff Funding, LP

Delaware 

Matthew International Sales, Inc.

US-Virgin Islands 

Max Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

MC of America, LLC

Delaware 

McCart Landing Conyers, LLC

Delaware 

McClellan Greensboro, LLC

Delaware 

McMillin Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Meadowmont JV, LLC

Delaware 

Melbourne Atlantic Joint Venture

Florida 

Mercy Housing Georgia I, L.L.L.P.

Georgia 

Meridian Mortgage Corporation

Pennsylvania 

Meridian Venture Partners

Pennsylvania 

Metropolitan West Capital Management, LLC

California 

Metropolitan West Securities, LLC

California 

MidCity Community CDE-Operating Fund, LLC

Delaware 

Mid-Peninsula Capital, LLC

California 

Milford Highlands PA, LLC

Delaware 

Monument Peak, LLC

Delaware 

Monument Street Funding, Inc.

California 

Monument Street Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Monument Street Funding-II, LLC

Delaware 

Monument Street Holding LLC

Delaware 

Monument Street International Funding-I, LLC

Delaware 

Monument Street International Funding-II, LLC

Delaware 

Mortgage 100, LLC

Delaware 

Mortgage One

Not Required 

Mortgages Unlimited, LLC

Delaware 

Mountain Summit Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Mountain Ventures Treviso Bay, LLC

Delaware 

MSC Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Mt. Vernon Middle Tier, LLC

Delaware 

Mulberry Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Mulberry SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

MVP Distribution Partners

Pennsylvania 

11 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

MWI-2002, LLC

Delaware 

NB Crossroads XVIII ASP Fund, LLC

Delaware 

NCT Exchange, LLC

Delaware 

NEC IX, LLC

Delaware 

NEC VIII, LLC

Delaware 

Neckar Financial, LLC

Delaware 

Nelson Capital Management, LLC

Delaware 

Nero Limited, LLC

Delaware 

New Markets Investment XIII, LLC

Delaware 

NFPS, Inc.

Delaware 

Nolde Bakery SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

North Fontana CA, LLC

Delaware 

North Hart Run, Inc.

Virginia 

North Star Mortgage Guaranty Reinsurance Company

Vermont 

Northbrooke Woodstock, LLC

Delaware 

Northern Prairie Indemnity Limited

Cayman Islands 

Norwest Equity Capital, L.L.C.

Minnesota 

Norwest Equity Partners IX, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Equity Partners V, a Minnesota Limited Partnership

Minnesota 

Norwest Equity Partners VI, LP

Minnesota 

Norwest Equity Partners VII, LP

Minnesota 

Norwest Equity Partners VIII, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Financial Canada DE, Inc.

Delaware 

Norwest Financial Funding, Inc.

Nevada 

Norwest Financial Investment 1, Inc.

Nevada 

Norwest Financial Investment, Inc.

Nevada 

Norwest Financial Massachusetts

Massachusetts 

Norwest Limited LP, LLLP

Delaware 

Norwest Mezzanine Partners I, LP

Minnesota 

Norwest Mezzanine Partners II, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Mezzanine Partners III, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Properties Holding Company

Minnesota 

Norwest Venture Capital Management, Inc.

Minnesota 

Norwest Venture Partners Advisory-Mauritius

Mauritius 

Norwest Venture Partners FVCI-Mauritius

Mauritius 

Norwest Venture Partners IX, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Venture Partners VI, LP

Minnesota 

Norwest Venture Partners VI-A, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Venture Partners VII, LP

Minnesota 

Norwest Venture Partners VII-A, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Venture Partners VIII, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Venture Partners X FII-Mauritius

Mauritius 

Norwest Venture Partners X -Mauritius

Mauritius 

12 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Norwest Venture Partners X, LP

Delaware 

Norwest Venture Partners-Mauritius

Mauritius 

Nucompass Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

NVP Associates, LLC

Delaware 

NVP Israel Ltd

Israel 

NVP Venture Capital India Private Limited

India 

Oak Haven Senior Living, LLC

Delaware 

Ocean View Holdco, LLC

Delaware 

Oilwell Supply, L.P.

Texas 

Old Swedish Bank Master Tenant, LLC

Minnesota 

OmniPlus Capital Corporation

Tennessee 

OmniServe of Alabama, L.L.C.

Alabama 

Oosterpark, LLC

Delaware 

OPC Hampton SCP, LP

Virginia 

OPC Hampton Tenant, L.P.

Virginia 

OPC Hampton, LLC

Virginia 

O Sullivan and Associates Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Oxmoor Center, LLC

Delaware 

Pacific Northwest Statutory Trust I

Connecticut 

Palo Alto Partners, LLC

Delaware 

Parachute Factory SCP, LLC

Virginia 

Parachute Factory Tenant, LLC

Virginia 

Paramount Theater SCP L.P.

Virginia 

Paramount Theater Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

Parkland Senior Housing, LP

Missouri 

PASS Holding LLC

Delaware 

Peachtree Residential Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Pelican Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Peony Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Peregrine Capital Management, Inc.

Minnesota 

Personal Mortgage Group, LLC

Delaware 

Pheasant Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

PHH Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Philadelphia International Equities, Inc.

Delaware 

Philadelphia National Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Phoenix Metro Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

PHX Mortgage Advisors, LLC

Delaware 

Pinnacle Mortgage of Nevada, LLC

Delaware 

PINTA, LLC

Delaware 

Placer Sierra Bancshares

California 

Placer Statutory Trust III

Delaware 

Placer Statutory Trust IV

Delaware 

Platinum Residential Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

13 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

PNC Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Pohlig SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Pooled Auto Securities Shelf, LLC

Delaware 

Preferred Funding S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

Preferred Investments S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

Premia Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Premium Timberland Sales, Inc.

North Carolina 

Prime Direct LLC

Delaware 

Prime Era Investments Limited

UK-Virgin Islands 

Prime Select Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Primrose Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Princeton Reconveyance Services Inc.

California 

Priority Mortgage Company, LLC

Delaware 

Private Mortgage Advisors, LLC

Delaware 

PRN Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Professional Direct Agency, Inc.

Ohio 

Professional Financial Services of Arizona, LLC

Delaware 

Professional Mortgage Associates, LLC

Delaware 

Prometheus Investment, LLC

North Carolina 

PSH State Investor, LLC

Delaware 

PTO Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Pumi Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Pursuit of Joy, LLC

Delaware 

Quail Asset Management, LLC

Delaware 

Questpoint L.P., Inc.

Delaware 

R.B.C. Corporation

North Carolina 

Railcar Investment, LLC

Delaware 

Railway Tenant, LLC

Maryland 

Rainier Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Real Estate Consultants of the South, Inc.

North Carolina 

Real Estate Lenders

Not Required 

Real Living Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Real Sincere Group Limited

UK-Virgin Islands 

Realty Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Alabama Commercial, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Alabama, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Arizona, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Arlington Ridge FL Land, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Arlington Ridge FL, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Atlanta Club Homes, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Atlanta Housing, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Atlanta Subdivisions, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Bell Circle Revere MA, LLC

Delaware 

14 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

REDUS Brookhaven Plaza, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS CA Properties, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS California Land, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Charlotte Housing, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Chase Oaks Village TX, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Chesapeake Bay Resort MD, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Colorado, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Dallas TX, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Delaware, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Ferguson, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS FL Properties, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Florida Commercial, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Florida Condos, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Florida Housing, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Florida Land, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Frederica Club, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Frederica, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Georgia Commercial, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Greensboro Subdivisions, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS HH, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Houston, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Idaho, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS IDS, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Illinois, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Indiana, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Kentucky, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS MA Subdivisions, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Maison 31 NY, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Maryland Commercial, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS MD Land, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Mississippi Land, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Missouri, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Nashville Housing, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS NC Costal, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS NC Housing, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS NC Land, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Nevada, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS New Jersey, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS New York, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Ohio, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Properties, Inc.

Delaware 

REDUS Raleigh Housing, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Redmond OR land, LLC

Delaware 

15 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

REDUS Salina Central Mall KS, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS SC Coastal, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS SC Housing, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Sheraton N. Dallas, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Somerly, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS South Carolina, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Tennessee Housing, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Texas Land, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS TX Homes, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS TX Properties, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS VA Housing, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Virginia Commercial, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Virginia Subdivisions, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Westwood, LLC

Delaware 

REDUS Woodland, LLC

Delaware 

Reliable Finance Holding Company

Puerto Rico 

Reliable Finance Holding Company, LLC

Nevada 

Reliable Financial Services, Inc.

Puerto Rico 

Reliable Insurance Services Corp.

Puerto Rico 

Renaissance Finance II, LLC

Delaware 

Residential Asset Funding Corporation

North Carolina 

Residential Home Division, LLC

Delaware 

Residential Home Mortgage Investment, L.L.C.

Delaware 

Residential Mortgage Division, LLC

Delaware 

Residential Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

Rhine Investment Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Riggs Rental Exchange, LLC

Delaware 

Rigil Funding, LLC

Delaware 

RIJK, LLC

Delaware 

Riverside Home Loans, LLC

Delaware 

Roanoke TS SCP, LP

Virginia 

Roanoke TS Tenant, LP

Virginia 

Rocky River Project LLC

Delaware 

Royalton Apartments, Ltd.

Florida 

Ruby Asset Management Inc.

Maryland 

Rural Community Insurance Agency, Inc.

Minnesota 

Rural Community Insurance Company

Minnesota 

RWF Mortgage Company

California 

RWF Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Ryaccom, LLC

Delaware 

Ryder Exchange, LLC

Delaware 

Sagebrush Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Saguaro Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

16 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Salvo Finance GP

Delaware 

Santa Fe Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Sapphire Asset Management Inc.

Maryland 

Savings Associations Financial Enterprises, Incorporated (S.A.F.E., Inc.)

District of Columbia 

SC Realty, LLC

Delaware 

SCG Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Select Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Select Lending Services, LLC

Delaware 

SelectNet Plus, Inc.

West Virginia 

Seventeenth Street Lofts SCP L.P.

Virginia 

Seventeenth Street Lofts Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

SG Group Holdings LLC

Delaware 

SG New York LLC

Delaware 

SG Pennsylvania LLC

Delaware 

SG Tucson LLC

Delaware 

Shockoe-Cary Building Tenant, L.P.

Virginia 

Sierra Delaware Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Sierra Peaks Funding, LP

Delaware 

Signature Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Signet Student Loan Corporation

Virginia 

Siguler Guff BRIC Opportunities II ASW Fund, LLC

Delaware 

Silver Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Sirius Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Site 15 Affordable Associates, LLC

New York 

Skogman Mortgage Company

Not Required 

SoCo Community Development Company, LLC

Alabama 

Solution Delivery, LLC

Delaware 

Source One Liquidation, LLC

Delaware 

South Street Lofts SCP L.P.

Virginia 

South Street Lofts Tenant L.P.

Virginia 

Southeast Home Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Southeast Minnesota Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Southern Ohio Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

SouthSide Plaza 455 Ltd., L.L.P.

Texas 

SouthTrust Capital Funding Corporation

Delaware 

SouthTrust Community Reinvestment Company, LLC

Alabama 

SouthTrust Development Corporation

Georgia 

SouthTrust Mobile Services Funding Corporation

Alabama 

SouthTrust Mortgage Corporation

Delaware 

Southwest Community Statutory Trust I

Connecticut 

Southwest Partners, Inc.

California 

Sparta GP Holding REO Corp.

Delaware 

Sparta GP Holding, LLC

Delaware 

17 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

SPFE, Inc.

North Carolina 

Spring Cypress Water Supply Corporation

Texas 

SR 70 Land Bradenton, LLC

Delaware 

SS Columbus Morse, LLC

Delaware 

SS New Smyrna, LLC

Delaware 

SS South Loop, LLC

Delaware 

St. Joseph s Affordable Housing Limited Partnership

Pennsylvania 

Stagecoach Insurance Services, LLC

Delaware 

Stirling Mortgage Services, LLC

Delaware 

STRATS, LLC

Delaware 

Structured Asset Investors, LLC

Delaware 

Structured Credit Partners, LLC

Delaware 

Structured Principal Strategies Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Structured Principal Strategies, LLC

Delaware 

Suffolk Center for Cultural Arts SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Sullivan Investments, Inc.

Delaware 

Summit National Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Summitt PELS Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Superior Guaranty Insurance Company

Vermont 

Superior Warehouse Apartment SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

SURREY DOWNS/FIDOREO, INC.

New Jersey 

Sweetroot Funding, LLC

Cayman Islands 

Synthetic Fixed-Income Securities, Inc.

Delaware 

Tai Mo Shan Investments Partnership

Hong Kong 

TAI Title Trust

Delaware 

Tanford Holding Company Ltd

British Virgin Islands 

Tattersall Advisory Group, Inc.

Virginia 

Taylor County Land GA, LLC

Delaware 

TAYLORR LAKES/FIDOREO, INC.

New Jersey 

TCF A/GA-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF A/NC-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF A/V-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF AEG/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF AM/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF AM/F-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF AM/F-4A, LLC

Delaware 

TCF AM/F-4B, LLC

Delaware 

TCF BA/F-G, LLC

Delaware 

TCF BO/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF BOH/H-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF BOH/H-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF C/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF C/F-2, LLC

Delaware 

18 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

TCF CN/VA-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF CN/VA-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF CN/VA-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF CON/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF GW/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF GW/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF GW-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF HH/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF JH/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF JP/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF JP/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF JPM/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF JPM/F-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF JPM/F-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF M/F-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF NA/VA-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF NA/VA-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF NA/VA-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF P/GA-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF P/MO-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF P/VA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF S/GA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/GA-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/GA-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/MO, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/VA, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/VA-2, LLC

Delaware 

TCF U/VA-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF UB-1, LLC

Delaware 

TCF USB/F, LLC

Delaware 

TCF WF-3, LLC

Delaware 

TCF WF-4, LLC

Delaware 

TCF WF-5, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund I, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund II, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund III, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund IV, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund V, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund VI, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund VII, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG Historic Tax Credit Fund I, LLC

Delaware 

TCIG NC State Credit Fund, LLC

North Carolina 

TCIG Tax Credit Fund I, LLC

Delaware 

19 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

TCIG Tax Credit Fund II, LLC

Delaware 

The Ceres Investment Company

Missouri 

The Exchange Building Limited Partnership

Maine 

The Fairfax Corporation

North Carolina 

The Florida Community New Markets Fund II, LLC

Florida 

The Lofts San Marco Tenant, LLC

Florida 

The Money Store, LLC

New Jersey 

The Money Store/Service Corp.

New Jersey 

The Preserve Sevierville, LLC

Delaware 

The Ridges at Mountain Harbour, LLC

Delaware 

The Thirty-Eight Hundred Fund, LLC

Delaware 

The Westlake Group, Limited

British West Indies 

Therapy Insurance Services Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Thirty-Eight Hundred Investments Limited

Cayman Islands 

THM Master TE, LLC

Minnesota 

Thoroughbred Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Tiberius Ventures, L.L.C.

Nevada 

TMS Funding Limited

Cayman Islands 

TMS Special Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

TMS Student Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Todd Tenant, L. P.

Virginia 

Topaz Asset Management Inc.

Maryland 

Town   Country Mortgage Group, LLC

Delaware 

TPG Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Trademark Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Transportation Equipment Advisors, Inc.

Illinois 

Treviso Bay Development, LLC

Delaware 

Triad Apartment Portfolio, LLC

Delaware 

TRSTE II, Inc.

Tennessee 

TRSTE, Inc.

Virginia 

Tryon Management, Inc.

North Carolina 

Two APM Plaza, Inc. (89%)

Pennsylvania 

Tyree Financing, S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

Tyro Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Union Commerce Title Company, LLC

Delaware 

Union Hamilton Reinsurance, Ltd.

Bermuda 

Union Hamilton Special Purpose Funding 2005-1, LLC

Delaware 

Union Hamilton Special Purpose Funding 2005-2, LLC

Delaware 

Union Hamilton Special Purpose Funding 2006-1, LLC

Delaware 

Union Station Holding Company LLC

Delaware 

United Bancorporation of Wyoming Capital Trust I

Delaware 

United Bancorporation of Wyoming Capital Trust II

Delaware 

United Bancorporation of Wyoming Capital Trust III

Delaware 

20 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

United Bancshares, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

United Bank of Philadelphia

Pennsylvania 

United California Bank Realty Corporation

California 

Universal Master Servicing, LLC

Delaware 

Valley Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

VCP-Carlington, LLC.

Florida 

Vento WF LLC

Delaware 

Veranda Park Orlando, LLC

Delaware 

Vermillion Huntersville, LLC

Delaware 

Vickery Village Cumming GA, LLC

Delaware 

Victoria Investments, LLC

Delaware 

Village Communities Financial, LLC

Delaware 

Villages at Warner Ranch PUD, LP

Delaware 

Violet Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

Virginia Street SCP, L.P.

Virginia 

Vista Lofts Denver, LLC

Delaware 

Vondelpark, LLC

Delaware 

W/A Tax Credit Fund 2003-I, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia 300 California Member, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Administrative Services, Inc.

Florida 

Wachovia Advisors International Limited

Hong Kong 

Wachovia Affordable Housing Community Development Corporation

North Carolina 

Wachovia Affordable Housing Corp.

North Carolina 

Wachovia Alternative Strategies Offshore Platform, SPC

UK-Cayman Islands 

Wachovia ARM Securitization, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Asia Holding Corporation

Alabama 

Wachovia Asia Limited

Hong Kong 

Wachovia Asset Securitization Holding Corp.

Delaware 

Wachovia Asset Securitization Issuance II, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Asset Securitization Issuance, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Auto Loan Owner Trust 2006-1

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Loan Owner Trust 2006-2

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Loan Owner Trust 2007-1

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Loan Owner Trust 2008-1

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Owner Trust 2005-B

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Owner Trust 2006-A

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Owner Trust 2007-A

Delaware 

Wachovia Auto Owner Trust 2008-A

Delaware 

Wachovia Bank and Trust Company (Cayman) Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

Wachovia Bank of Delaware, National Association

United States 

Wachovia Bank, National Association

United States 

Wachovia Capital Finance Corporation (Canada)

Canada-Ontario 

Wachovia Capital Finance Corporation (Central)

Illinois 

21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wachovia Capital Finance Corporation (New England)

Massachusetts 

Wachovia Capital Finance Corporation (Western)

California 

Wachovia Capital Investments, Inc.

Georgia 

Wachovia Capital Investors, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 1997, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 1998, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 1998-II, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 1999, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 1999-II, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2000, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2001, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2002, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2003, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2004, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners 2005, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Capital Partners II ASW Fund, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Partners Management Company, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Partners Secondary Fund I, L.P.

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Partners, Inc.

Virginia 

Wachovia Capital Trust I

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust II

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust III

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust IV

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust IX

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust V

Delaware 

Wachovia Capital Trust X

Delaware 

Wachovia Card Receivables, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Card Services, National Association

United States 

Wachovia Caveness Member, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Century Mill Member, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Commercial Mortgage Loan Warehouse Corporation

North Carolina 

Wachovia Commodities Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Wachovia Community Development Corporation

North Carolina 

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises I, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises II, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises III, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises V, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1 Investor, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1, Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

Wachovia Dealer Services, Inc.

California 

Wachovia Defeasance 3409 PRIMM III LLC

Delaware 

22 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

23 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

24 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

25 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

26 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

27 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

28 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wachovia Defeasance LB UBS 2002-C2 II LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C2 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C2 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C4 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C4 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C7 II LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C7 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C7 Independence Shoppingtown LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C7 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C1 (Clear) LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C1 Franklin Avenue LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C1 II LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C1 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C3 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C3 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C5 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C5 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C7 (Getty) LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C7 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C8 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C8 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C1 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C4 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C4 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C6 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C7 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C7 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C8 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C8 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2005-C3 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2005-C7 VR Bayou LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Management II LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Management III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Management LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Management-KeyCorp III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Management-KeyCorp LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Management-Midland III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Management-Midland LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MCF 1998-MC3 LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 1998-C2 II LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 1998-C2 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 1998-C2 LLC

Delaware 

29 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

30 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

31 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2006-C24 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2006-C25 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 202-C2 III LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Development Corporation

North Carolina 

Wachovia Directors (Cayman) Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands  

Wachovia Education Finance Inc.

Delaware 

Wachovia Education Loan Funding LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Encryption Technologies, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Equity Servicing, LLC

New Jersey 

Wachovia Finance Ireland Limited

Ireland 

Wachovia Financial Services, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia Fixed Income Structured Trading Solutions, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia FSD SCP, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia Guaranteed Middle Tier III-A/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Middle Tier IV-P/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Middle Tier IV-U/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund II, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund III-A/GA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund III-A/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund III-CN/GA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund IV-P/GA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund IV-P/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund IV-U/GA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund IV-U/NC, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund V-F/M, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund V-VA/M, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund-C/GA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund-WF/CA, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund-WF/CA-2, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia High Yield Investments Corporation

Delaware 

Wachovia Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Wachovia Insurance Agency, Inc.

Virginia 

Wachovia Insurance Services Broker Dealer, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia International B.V.

Netherlands 

Wachovia International Banking Corporation

United States 

Wachovia International Capital Corporation

Georgia 

Wachovia International Services Private Limited

India 

Wachovia International Servicos, LTDA

Brazil 

Wachovia Investment Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Investors, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia KW1, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia KW2, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Large Loan, Inc.

Delaware 

32 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wachovia Life Insurance Company

Arizona 

Wachovia Management Corporation

California 

Wachovia Management Services Private Limited

India 

Wachovia Mortgage Corporation

North Carolina 

Wachovia Mortgage Loan Trust, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Multifamily Capital, Inc.

Delaware 

Wachovia Netherlands B.V.

Netherlands 

Wachovia Netherlands Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Wachovia Ocean View Member, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Operational Services, LLC

North Carolina 

Wachovia PASS Co., LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Preferred Funding Corp.

Delaware 

Wachovia Preferred Funding Holding Corp.

California 

Wachovia Preferred Realty, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Private Capital, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wachovia Proprietary Equity Trading, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia RE, Inc.

South Carolina 

Wachovia Real Estate Investment Corp.

Delaware 

Wachovia Real Estate Korea, Inc.

Korea 

Wachovia Regional Community Development Corporation, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wachovia Residual Interest Securitization, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Risk Services, Inc.

Virginia 

Wachovia Secretaries (Cayman) Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

Wachovia Securities (Uruguay) S.A.

Uruguay 

Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Securities Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Securities Insurance Agency of Puerto Rico, Inc.

Puerto Rico 

Wachovia Securities Servicos e Participacoes (Brasil) LTDA

Brazil 

Wachovia Service Corporation

Delaware 

Wachovia Settlement Services of AL, LLC

Alabama 

Wachovia Settlement Services, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Shared Resources, LLC

Delaware 

Wachovia Student Loan Trust 2005-1

Delaware 

Wachovia Student Loan Trust 2006-1

Delaware 

Wachovia Technology Planning   Solutions Private Limited

India 

Wachovia Trade Finance Corporation

Delaware 

Wachovia Trust Services, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wachovia Warranty Corporation

Delaware 

Wachovia/Maher Partners

Delaware 

Wapiti Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Warder Mansion, L. P.

Virginia 

Water s Edge Clearwater, LLC

Delaware 

Waterside Villages, LLC

Delaware 

33 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wauregan Development LLC

Connecticut 

WB Re Ltd.

Vermont 

WBI Holdings I, LLC

Delaware 

WBI Holdings II, LLC

Delaware 

WBI Holdings III, LLC

Delaware 

WBI Holdings IV, LLC

Delaware 

WBI Holdings V, LLC

Delaware 

WBI Holdings VI, LLC

Delaware 

WCP Compression Holdings, LLC

North Carolina 

WCP Compression, LLC

North Carolina 

WCP Fund I, L.P.

Delaware 

WCP Fund II, L.P.

Delaware 

WCP Holdings 2002, LLC

North Carolina 

WCP Holdings 2004, LLC

North Carolina 

WCP Holdings 2005, LLC

North Carolina 

WCP Holdings 2006, LLC

North Carolina 

WCP Secondary Fund I GP, LLC

Delaware 

WDC 541 N Fairbanks Member, LLC

Delaware 

WDC KW America Member, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Lake Spivey Member, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Member KW Portfolio, LLC

Delaware 

WDC PSL City Center, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Triad Member I, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Triad Parent, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Union Station, LLC

Delaware 

WDC Ventures Ltd.

Mauritius 

WDC/Babcock Fairways, LLC

Delaware 

WDS Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

WDS Receivables 2 LLC

Nevada 

WDS Receivables LLC

Nevada 

WDSI, LLC

Delaware 

WELF Holding LLC

Delaware 

Wells Capital Management Incorporated

California 

Wells Fargo Advisors (Argentina) LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Advisors (Chile) LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Advisors (Montevideo) Usuaria de Zona Franca S.A.

Uruguay 

Wells Fargo Advisors Financial Network, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Advisors Insurance Agency, LLC

Virgina 

Wells Fargo Advisors, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Alaska Trust Company, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo Alternative Asset Management, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Asia Limited

Hong Kong 

Wells Fargo Asset Management Corporation

Minnesota 

34 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wells Fargo Asset Securities Corporation

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Auto Finance, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo Bank International

Ireland 

Wells Fargo Bank Northwest, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo Bank South Central, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo Bank, Ltd.

California 

Wells Fargo Bank, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo Bill Presentment Venture Member, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Business Credit Canada ULC

Canada 

Wells Fargo Capital A

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital B

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital C

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital I

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital II

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital IV

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital IX

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital VII

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital VIII

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital X

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital XI

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital XII

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital XIII

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital XIV

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Capital XV

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Cash Centers, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Cedar Creek, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Central Bank

California 

Wells Fargo Central Pacific Holdings, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo CM Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage Securities, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wells Fargo Commodities, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Community Development Corporation

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Community Investment Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Credit Card Funding LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Credit Card Master Note Trust

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Credit, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Delaware Trust Company, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo Distribution Finance, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Energy Capital, Inc.

Texas 

Wells Fargo Equipment Finance Company

Canada 

Wells Fargo Equipment Finance, Inc.

Minnesota 

35 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wells Fargo Equity Capital, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo Escrow Company, LLC

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Exchange Services, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wells Fargo Exchange Services, LLC.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Acceptance America, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wells Fargo Financial Acceptance, LLC

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Financial Agency, Co.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Alabama, Inc.

Alabama 

Wells Fargo Financial Alaska, Inc.

Alaska 

Wells Fargo Financial America, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wells Fargo Financial Arizona, Inc.

Arizona 

Wells Fargo Financial Arkansas, Inc.

Arkansas 

Wells Fargo Financial California, Inc.

Colorado 

Wells Fargo Financial Canada Corporation

Canada 

Wells Fargo Financial Colorado, Inc.

Colorado 

Wells Fargo Financial Connecticut, Inc.

Connecticut 

Wells Fargo Financial Corporation Canada

Canada 

Wells Fargo Financial Credit Services New York, Inc.

New York 

Wells Fargo Financial Delaware, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Florida, Inc.

Florida 

Wells Fargo Financial Funding B.V.

Netherlands 

Wells Fargo Financial Georgia, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Guam, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Hawaii, Inc.

Hawaii 

Wells Fargo Financial Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Hong Kong Limited

Hong Kong 

Wells Fargo Financial Idaho, Inc.

Idaho 

Wells Fargo Financial Illinois, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Indiana, Inc.

Indiana 

Wells Fargo Financial Information Services, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Investment, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Financial Iowa 1, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Iowa 3, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Kansas, Inc.

Kansas 

Wells Fargo Financial Kentucky 1, Inc.

Kentucky 

Wells Fargo Financial Kentucky, Inc.

Kentucky 

Wells Fargo Financial Leasing, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Louisiana, Inc.

Louisiana 

Wells Fargo Financial Maine, Inc.

Maine 

Wells Fargo Financial Maryland, Inc.

Maryland 

Wells Fargo Financial Massachusetts 1, Inc.

Massachusetts 

Wells Fargo Financial Massachusetts, Inc.

Massachusetts 

Wells Fargo Financial Michigan, Inc.

Michigan 

36 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wells Fargo Financial Minnesota, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Financial Mississippi 2, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Mississippi, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Missouri, Inc.

Missouri 

Wells Fargo Financial Montana, Inc.

Montana 

Wells Fargo Financial National Bank

United States 

Wells Fargo Financial Nebraska, Inc.

Nebraska 

Wells Fargo Financial Nevada 1, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Financial Nevada 2, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Financial Nevada, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Financial New Hampshire 1, Inc.

New Hampshire 

Wells Fargo Financial New Hampshire, Inc.

New Hampshire 

Wells Fargo Financial New Jersey, Inc.

New Jersey 

Wells Fargo Financial New Mexico, Inc.

New Mexico 

Wells Fargo Financial New York, Inc.

New York 

Wells Fargo Financial North Carolina 1, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wells Fargo Financial North Carolina, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wells Fargo Financial North Dakota, Inc.

North Dakota 

Wells Fargo Financial Ohio 1, Inc.

New Hampshire 

Wells Fargo Financial Ohio, Inc.

Ohio 

Wells Fargo Financial Oklahoma, Inc.

Oklahoma 

Wells Fargo Financial Oregon, Inc.

Oregon 

Wells Fargo Financial Pennsylvania, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wells Fargo Financial Puerto Rico, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Resources, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Retail Credit, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Retail Services Company Canada

Canada 

Wells Fargo Financial Retail Services, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Rhode Island, Inc.

Rhode Island 

Wells Fargo Financial Saipan, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial Security Services, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financial Services Virginia, Inc.

Virginia 

Wells Fargo Financial Services, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Financial South Carolina, Inc.

South Carolina 

Wells Fargo Financial South Dakota, Inc.

South Dakota 

Wells Fargo Financial System Florida, Inc.

Florida 

Wells Fargo Financial System Minnesota, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Financial System Virginia, Inc.

Virginia 

Wells Fargo Financial Tennessee 1, LLC

Tennessee 

Wells Fargo Financial Tennessee, Inc.

Tennessee 

Wells Fargo Financial Texas, Inc.

Texas 

Wells Fargo Financial Utah, Inc.

Utah 

Wells Fargo Financial Vermont, Inc.

Vermont 

37 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wells Fargo Financial Virginia, Inc.

Virginia 

Wells Fargo Financial Washington 1, Inc.

Washington 

Wells Fargo Financial Washington, Inc.

Washington 

Wells Fargo Financial West Virginia, Inc.

West Virginia 

Wells Fargo Financial Wisconsin, Inc.

Wisconsin 

Wells Fargo Financial Wyoming, Inc.

Wyoming 

Wells Fargo Financial, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Financing Corporation

California 

Wells Fargo Foothill Canada ULC

Canada 

Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo Foothill, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Funding, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Funds Distributor, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Funds Management, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Global Broker Network, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Home Mortgage of Hawaii, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Housing Advisors, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, National Association

United States 

Wells Fargo India Solutions Private Limited

India 

Wells Fargo Institutional Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Institutional Securities, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Insurance Agency of Michigan, Inc.

Michigan 

Wells Fargo Insurance Nevada, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services Investment Advisors, Inc

Colorado 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services Mountain West, Inc.

Colorado 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services Northeast, Inc.

New Jersey 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services Northwest, Inc.

Washington 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Alabama, Inc.

Alabama 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Alaska, Inc.

Alaska 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Arizona, Inc.

Arizona 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Illinois, Inc.

Illinois 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Indiana, LLC

Indiana 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Kentucky, Inc.

Kentucky 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Minnesota, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Nevada, Inc.

Nevada 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of New York, Inc.

New York 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of North Carolina, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Ohio, LLC

Ohio 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Oregon, Inc.

Oregon 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Pennsylvania, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Tennessee, Inc.

Tennessee 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Texas, Inc.

Texas 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of Virginia, Inc.

Virginia 

38 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of West Virginia, Inc.

West Virginia 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services Southeast, Inc.

Florida 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services USA, Inc.

North Carolina 

Wells Fargo Insurance Services, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Insurance Wyoming, Inc.

Wyoming 

Wells Fargo Insurance, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo International Commercial Services Limited

Hong Kong 

Wells Fargo Investment Group, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Investments, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Merchant Services, L.LC.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo of California Insurance Services, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo Preferred Capital, Inc.

Iowa 

Wells Fargo Private Client Funding, Inc.

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Properties, Inc.

Minnesota 

Wells Fargo RE, Inc.

New Jersey 

Wells Fargo Real Estate Capital Investments, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Real Estate Tax Services, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Retail Finance II, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Retail Finance, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Securities (Japan) Co. Ltd.

Japan 

Wells Fargo Securities Asia Limited

Hong Kong 

Wells Fargo Securities International Limited

United Kingdom-England 

Wells Fargo Securities, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Servicing Solutions, LLC

Florida 

Wells Fargo Small Business Investment Company, Inc.

California 

Wells Fargo Special Risks, Inc.

Illinois 

Wells Fargo Structured Lending, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Student Loans Receivables I, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Third Party Administrators, Inc.

West Virginia 

Wells Fargo Trade Capital Services, Inc.

New York 

Wells Fargo Trade Capital, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Trust Corporation Limited

United Kingdom 

Wells Fargo Ventures, LLC

Delaware 

Wells Fargo Wind Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

WES Holding Corporation

Delaware 

WestFin Insurance Agency, Inc.

California 

Westlake Insurance Company (Bermuda), Ltd.

Bermuda 

WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

WF Securities Services, LLC

Delaware 

WFB International Holdings Corporation

United States 

WFC Holdings Corporation

Delaware 

WFI Insurance Agency Montana, Inc.

Montana 

WFI Insurance Agency Washington, Inc.

Washington 

WFLC Subsidiary, LLC

Delaware 

39 

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December
31, 2009:

Jurisdiction of 

Incorporation or 

Subsidiary 
       
     Organization 

WFS Financial 2002-2 Owner Trust

Not Required 

WFS Financial 2002-3 Owner Trust

Not Required 

WFS Financial 2002-4 Owner Trust

Not Required 

WFS Financial 2003-1 Owner Trust

Not Required 

WFS Financial 2003-2 Owner Trust

Not Required 

WFS Financial 2003-3 Owner Trust

Not Required 

WFS Financial 2003-4 Owner Trust

Not Required 

WFS Financial 2004-1 Owner Trust

Not Required 

WFS Financial 2004-2 Owner Trust

Not Required 

WFS Financial 2004-3 Owner Trust

Not Required 

WFS Financial 2004-4 Owner Trust

Not Required 

WFS Financial 2005-1 Owner Trust

Not Required 

WFS Financial 2005-2 Owner Trust

Not Required 

WFS Financial 2005-3 Owner Trust

Not Required 

WFS Financial 2005-A Owner Trust

Not Required 

WFS Funding, Inc.

California 

WFS Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

WFS Receivables Corporation

California 

WFS Receivables Corporation 2

Nevada 

WFS Receivables Corporation 3

California 

WFS Receivables Corporation 4

Nevada 

WFS Web Investments

California 

WG-5278 MO, LLC

Delaware 

Wheat First Butcher Singer Private Equity Fund, Limited Partnership

Virginia 

Wheels Exchange, LLC

Delaware 

Whippet Funding, LLC

Delaware 

Whitney Hotel Limited Partnership

Louisiana 

WIBC Aruba N.V.

Aruba 

WIH CDO, LLC

Delaware 

WIH Holdings

Mauritius 

William Byrd Hotel Associates, L.P.

Virginia 

William Pitt Mortgage, LLC

Delaware 

Winchester REO, LLC

North Carolina 

Winmark Financial, LLC

Delaware 

WLC Company, LLC

Nevada 

WLH 2008-1, LLC

Delaware 

World Loan Company, LLC

Texas 

World Mortgage Company

Colorado 

World Savings Insurance Agency, Inc.

California 

World Savings, Inc.

California 

WPFC Asset Funding LLC

Delaware 

WREK Retail I, LLC

Delaware 

WSH Holdings, Ltd.

UK-Cayman Islands 

Yucca Asset Management, Inc.

Delaware 

40 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 11
 f54129exv23.htm
 EX-23

exv23 

Exhibit 23 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors 
Wells Fargo   Company:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements noted below on Forms
S-3, S-4 and S-8 of Wells Fargo   Company, of our reports dated February 26, 2010, with
respect to the consolidated balance sheet of Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in equity
and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2009, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, which reports appear in the December 31, 2009, Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Wells Fargo   Company.

/s/ KPMG LLP 
San Francisco, California 
February 26, 2010

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 12
 f54129exv24.htm
 EX-24

exv24 

Exhibit 24 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY

Power of Attorney of Director

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned director of WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a
Delaware corporation, does hereby make, constitute, and appoint NICHOLAS G. MOORE, a director and
Chairman of the Audit and Examination Committee of the Board of Directors, and CYNTHIA H. MILLIGAN,
a director and member of the Audit and Examination Committee of the Board of Directors, and each or
either of them, the undersigned s true and lawful attorneys-in-fact, with power of substitution,
for the undersigned and in the undersigned s name, place, and stead, to sign and affix the
undersigned s name as such director of said Company to an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2009, and all amendments thereto, to be filed by said Company with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C. under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and
the rules and regulations of said Commission, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and
other supporting documents, with said Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact, and each of
them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts necessary or incidental to the
performance and execution of the powers herein expressly granted.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this power of attorney this 23rd day of
February, 2010.

/s/ JOHN D. BAKER II

/s/ NICHOLAS G. MOORE 

/s/ JOHN S. CHEN

/s/ PHILIP J. QUIGLEY 

/s/ LLOYD H. DEAN

/s/ DONALD B. RICE 

/s/ SUSAN E. ENGEL

/s/ JUDITH M. RUNSTAD 

/s/ ENRIQUE HERNANDEZ, JR.

/s/ STEPHEN W. SANGER 

/s/ DONALD M. JAMES

/s/ ROBERT K. STEEL 

/s/ RICHARD D. McCORMICK

/s/ JOHN G. STUMPF 

/s/ MACKEY J. McDONALD

/s/ SUSAN G. SWENSON 

/s/ CYNTHIA H. MILLIGAN

</EX-24>

<EX-31.A>
 13
 f54129exv31wa.htm
 EX-31.A

exv31wa 

Exhibit 31(a) 

CERTIFICATION  

I, John G. Stumpf, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009,
of Wells Fargo   Company; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with
respect to the period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal
quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 26, 2010

/s/ JOHN G. STUMPF

John G. Stumpf  

Chairman, President and Chief Executive
Officer  

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 14
 f54129exv31wb.htm
 EX-31.B

exv31wb 

Exhibit 31(b) 

CERTIFICATION  

I, Howard I. Atkins, certify that:

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods
presented in this report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision,
to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 

(b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or
caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure
controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the
period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case
of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions): 

(a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and 

(b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 26, 2010

/s/ HOWARD I. ATKINS

Howard I. Atkins  

Senior Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32.A>
 15
 f54129exv32wa.htm
 EX-32.A

exv32wa 

Exhibit 32(a) 

Certification of Periodic Financial Report by 
Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
and 18 U.S.C.   1350 

I, John G. Stumpf, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Wells Fargo   Company
(the  Company ), certify that:

(2) 
       
     the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ JOHN G. STUMPF

John G. Stumpf  

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 
Wells Fargo   Company  
February 26, 2010 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
Wells Fargo   Company and will be retained by Wells Fargo   Company and furnished to the Securities
and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 16
 f54129exv32wb.htm
 EX-32.B

exv32wb 

Exhibit 32(b) 

Certification of Periodic Financial Report by 
Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
and 18 U.S.C.   1350 

I, Howard I. Atkins, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Wells
Fargo   Company (the  Company ), certify that:

(1) 
       
     The Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, (the
 Report ) fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ HOWARD I. ATKINS

Howard I. Atkins  

Senior Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer 
Wells Fargo   Company 
February 26, 2010 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
Wells Fargo   Company and will be retained by Wells Fargo   Company and furnished to the Securities
and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.B>

<EX-99.A>
 17
 f54129exv99wa.htm
 EX-99.A

exv99wa 

Exhibit 99(a)

CERTIFICATION 

I, John G. Stumpf, the Chief Executive Officer of Wells Fargo   Company (the  Company ),
certify, based on my knowledge, that:

(i) The standard referred to in paragraph (i) of the model certification (the  Model
Certification ) set forth in the U.S. Department of the Treasury s Interim Final Rule, 31 C.F.R.
Part 30, as amended, under section 111 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as
amended ( EESA ), was not required to be met by the Company;

(ii) The standard referred to in paragraph (ii) of the Model Certification was not required to
be met by the Company;

(iii) The standard referred to in paragraph (iii) of the Model Certification was not required
to be met by the Company;

(iv) The standard referred to in paragraph (iv) of the Model Certification was not required to
be met by the Company;

(v) The standard referred to in paragraph (v) of the Model Certification was not required to
be met by the Company;

(vi) The Company has required that bonus payments, as defined in the regulations and guidance
established under section 111 of EESA ( bonus payments ), of the senior executive officers (the
 SEOs ) and twenty next most highly compensated employees be subject to a recovery or  clawback 
provision during the period beginning on June 15, 2009 and ending on December 23, 2009 if the bonus
payments were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially
inaccurate performance metric criteria;

(vii) The Company has prohibited any golden parachute payment, as defined in the regulations
and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, to an SEO or any of the next five most highly
compensated employees during the period beginning on June 15, 2009 and ending on December 23, 2009;

(viii) The Company has limited bonus payments to its applicable employees in accordance with
section 111 of EESA and the regulations and guidance established thereunder during the period
beginning on June 15, 2009 and ending on December 23, 2009;

(ix) The board of directors of the Company has established an excessive or luxury expenditures
policy, as defined in the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, by
September 14, 2009; this policy has been provided to the U.S. Department of the Treasury
( Treasury ) and its primary regulatory agency; the Company and its employees have complied with
this policy during the period beginning on September 14, 2009 and ending on December 23, 2009; and
any expenses that, pursuant to this policy, required approval of the

board of directors, a committee of the board of directors, an SEO, or an executive officer with a
similar level of responsibility were properly approved;

(x) The standard referred to in paragraph (x) of the Model Certification was not required to
be met by the Company;

(xi) The Company will disclose the amount, nature, and justification for the offering during
the Company s fiscal year 2009 of any perquisites, as defined in the regulations and guidance
established under section 111 of EESA, whose total value exceeds $25,000 for any employee who is
subject to the bonus payment limitations identified in paragraph (viii);

(xii) The Company will disclose whether the Company, the board of directors of the Company, or
the compensation committee of the Company has engaged during the fiscal year 2009 a compensation
consultant; and the services the compensation consultant or any affiliate of the compensation
consultant provided during this period;

(xiii) The Company has prohibited the payment of any gross-ups, as defined in the regulations
and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, to the SEOs and the next twenty most highly
compensated employees during the period beginning on June 15, 2009 and ending on December 23, 2009

(xiv) The Company has substantially complied with all other requirements related to employee
compensation that are provided in the agreement between the Company and Treasury, including any
amendments;

(xv) The Company will submit to Treasury a complete and accurate list of the SEOs and the
twenty next most highly compensated employees for the current fiscal year and the most recently
completed fiscal year, with the non-SEOs ranked in descending order of level of annual
compensation, and with the name, title, and employer of each SEO and most highly compensated
employee identified; and

(xvi) I understand that a knowing and willful false or fraudulent statement made in connection
with this certification may be punished by fine, imprisonment, or both. (See, for example, 18 USC
1001).

Date: February 26, 2010

/s/ JOHN G. STUMPF

John G. Stumpf  

Chairman, President and Chief Executive
Officer  

</EX-99.A>

<EX-99.B>
 18
 f54129exv99wb.htm
 EX-99.B

exv99wb 

Exhibit 99(b)

CERTIFICATION 

I, Howard I. Atkins, the Chief Financial Officer of Wells Fargo   Company (the  Company ),
certify, based on my knowledge, that:

(i) The standard referred to in paragraph (i) of the model certification (the  Model
Certification ) set forth in the U.S. Department of the Treasury s Interim Final Rule, 31 C.F.R.
Part 30, as amended, under section 111 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as
amended ( EESA ), was not required to be met by the Company;

(ii) The standard referred to in paragraph (ii) of the Model Certification was not required to
be met by the Company;

(iii) The standard referred to in paragraph (iii) of the Model Certification was not required
to be met by the Company;

(iv) The standard referred to in paragraph (iv) of the Model Certification was not required to
be met by the Company;

(v) The standard referred to in paragraph (v) of the Model Certification was not required to
be met by the Company;

(vi) The Company has required that bonus payments, as defined in the regulations and guidance
established under section 111 of EESA ( bonus payments ), of the senior executive officers (the
 SEOs ) and twenty next most highly compensated employees be subject to a recovery or  clawback 
provision during the period beginning on June 15, 2009 and ending on December 23, 2009 if the bonus
payments were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially
inaccurate performance metric criteria;

(vii) The Company has prohibited any golden parachute payment, as defined in the regulations
and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, to an SEO or any of the next five most highly
compensated employees during the period beginning on June 15, 2009 and ending on December 23, 2009;

(viii) The Company has limited bonus payments to its applicable employees in accordance with
section 111 of EESA and the regulations and guidance established thereunder during the period
beginning on June 15, 2009 and ending on December 23, 2009;

(ix) The board of directors of the Company has established an excessive or luxury expenditures
policy, as defined in the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, by
September 14, 2009; this policy has been provided to the U.S. Department of the Treasury
( Treasury ) and its primary regulatory agency; the Company and its employees have complied with
this policy during the period beginning on September 14, 2009 and ending on December 23, 2009; and
any expenses that, pursuant to this policy, required approval of the

board of directors, a committee of the board of directors, an SEO, or an executive officer with a
similar level of responsibility were properly approved;

(x) The standard referred to in paragraph (x) of the Model Certification was not required to
be met by the Company;

(xi) The Company will disclose the amount, nature, and justification for the offering during
the Company s fiscal year 2009 of any perquisites, as defined in the regulations and guidance
established under section 111 of EESA, whose total value exceeds $25,000 for any employee who is
subject to the bonus payment limitations identified in paragraph (viii);

(xii) The Company will disclose whether the Company, the board of directors of the Company, or
the compensation committee of the Company has engaged during the fiscal year 2009 a compensation
consultant; and the services the compensation consultant or any affiliate of the compensation
consultant provided during this period;

(xiii) The Company has prohibited the payment of any gross-ups, as defined in the regulations
and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, to the SEOs and the next twenty most highly
compensated employees during the period beginning on June 15, 2009 and ending on December 23, 2009

(xiv) The Company has substantially complied with all other requirements related to employee
compensation that are provided in the agreement between the Company and Treasury, including any
amendments;

(xv) The Company will submit to Treasury a complete and accurate list of the SEOs and the
twenty next most highly compensated employees for the current fiscal year and the most recently
completed fiscal year, with the non-SEOs ranked in descending order of level of annual
compensation, and with the name, title, and employer of each SEO and most highly compensated
employee identified; and

(xvi) I understand that a knowing and willful false or fraudulent statement made in connection
with this certification may be punished by fine, imprisonment, or both. (See, for example, 18 USC
1001).

Date: February 26, 2010

/s/ HOWARD I. ATKINS

Howard I. Atkins  

Senior Executive Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-99.B>

<EX-101.INS>
 19
 wfc-20091231.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 20
 wfc-20091231.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 21
 wfc-20091231_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 22
 wfc-20091231_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 23
 wfc-20091231_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 24
 wfc-20091231_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

