<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20140226_10-K_edgar_data_72971_0000072971-14-000337_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>96576022</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1959216</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>24749154</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>27536944</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>28571693</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>8054015</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>200</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>19</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000072971-14-000337.hdr.sgml : 20140226
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20140226115512
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000072971-14-000337
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		24
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20131231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20140226
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20140226

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WELLS FARGO & COMPANY/MN
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000072971
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				410449260
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02979
		FILM NUMBER:		14643412

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		420 MONTGOMERY STREET
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94163
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6126671234

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		420 MONTGOMERY STREET
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94163

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	WELLS FARGO & CO/MN
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19981103

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NORWEST CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NORTHWEST BANCORPORATION
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19830516

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000072971-14-000337.txt : 20140226

10-K
 1
 wfc10k_20131231.htm
 FORM 10-K

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington,
D.C. 20549   

Form
10 K   

Annual
Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  

For
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013            Commission File Number 001 2979  

WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY   

  (Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

Delaware                                                        
   No. 41-0449260  

  (State
of incorporation)                          (I.R.S.
Employer Identification No.)  

420
Montgomery Street, San Francisco, California 94163  

  (Address
of principal executive offices) (Zip code)  

Registrant s
telephone number, including area code:  1-866-878-5865  

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Name of Each Exchange  

Title of Each Class                                                                                                                                    
   on Which Registered   

Common Stock, par value $1-2/3  
    Warrants to purchase shares of Common Stock
  (expiring October 28, 2018)  

New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)  
    NYSE  

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/40 th 
  interest in a share of 8.00% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred
  Stock, Series J  

NYSE  

7.5% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A
  Preferred Stock, Series L  

NYSE  

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000 th 
  interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock,
  Series N  

NYSE  

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000 th 
  interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock,
  Series O  

NYSE  

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000 th 
  interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock,
  Series P  

NYSE  

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000 th 
  interest in a share of 5.85% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual
  Class A Preferred Stock, Series Q  

NYSE  

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000 th 
  interest in a share of 6.625% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual
  Class A Preferred Stock, Series R  

NYSE  

Guarantee of 5.80% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal
  Wachovia Income Trust Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust III  

NYSE  

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:   

  Dividend
Equalization Preferred Shares, no par value  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act.                                                            Yes
        No

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.                      
                 Yes         No

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.                         Yes
        No

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on
its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to submit and post such files).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Yes
        No

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10 K.

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer,  and  smaller
reporting company  in Rule 12b 2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):   

  Large
accelerated filer                                        Accelerated
filer        

  Non-accelerated
filer                                          Smaller
reporting company                            

  (Do
not check if a smaller reporting company)    

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell Company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Act).                                                                                  Yes
        No

At
June 30, 2013, the aggregate market value of common stock held by
non-affiliates was approximately $217.6 billion, based on a closing price
of $41.27. At January 31, 2014, 5,261,842,959 shares of common stock
were outstanding.  

Documents Incorporated
by Reference in Form 10-K   

                                      Incorporated Documents                                                                                   Where incorporated in Form 10 K   

PART I.   

Item 1.        Business         

Wells Fargo   Company is a corporation organized under the laws of
Delaware and a financial holding company and a bank holding company registered
under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHC Act). Its principal
business is to act as a holding company for its subsidiaries. References in
this report to  the Parent  mean the holding company. References to  we, 
 our,   us  or  the Company  mean the holding company and its subsidiaries that
are consolidated for financial reporting purposes.  

  At December 31, 2013, we had assets of $1.5 trillion,
loans of $826 billion, deposits of     $1.1      trillion
and stockholders  equity of $170 billion. Based on assets, we were the fourth
largest bank holding company in the United States. At December 31, 2013, Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. was the Company s principal subsidiary with assets of $1.4
trillion, or 90% of the Company s assets.  

  At December 31, 2013, we had     264,900 active, full-time equivalent team
members.  

  Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those
reports, are available for free at    www.wellsfargo.com/invest_relations/filings       as soon as reasonably practicable after they
are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). They are also available for free on the SEC s website at    www.sec.gov   .   

DESCRIPTION OF BusinesS   

General   

We are a diversified financial services company.
We provide retail, commercial and corporate banking services through banking
stores and offices, the internet and other distribution channels to
individuals, businesses and institutions in all 50 states, the District of
Columbia  
  and in other countries.     We provide other financial services through
subsidiaries engaged in various businesses, principally: wholesale banking,
mortgage banking, consumer finance, equipment leasing, agricultural finance,
commercial finance, securities brokerage and investment banking, insurance
agency and brokerage services, computer and data processing services, trust
services, investment advisory services, mortgage-backed securities servicing
and venture capital investment.  

  We have three operating
segments for management reporting purposes: Community Banking; Wholesale
Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. The 2013 Annual Report to
Stockholders includes financial information and descriptions of these operating
segments.  

Competition   

The financial services industry is highly competitive. Our subsidiaries
compete with financial services providers such as banks, savings and loan
associations, credit unions, finance companies, mortgage banking companies,
insurance companies, investment banks and mutual fund companies. They also face
increased competition from nonbank institutions such as brokerage houses, as
well as from financial services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing
companies. Many of these competitors enjoy fewer regulatory constraints and
some may have lower cost structures.  

  Securities firms and insurance companies
that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other
financial institutions. Combinations of this type could significantly change
the competitive environment in which we conduct business. The financial
services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further
technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services.
These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions
and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties.  

1   

REGULATION AND SUPERVISION   

We describe below, and in Notes 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions)
and 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements
included in the 2013 Annual Report to Stockholders, the material elements of
the regulatory framework applicable to us. Banking statutes, regulations and
policies are continually under review by Congress and state legislatures and
federal and state regulatory agencies, as well as foreign governments and
financial regulators, and a change in them, including changes in how they are
interpreted or implemented, could have a material effect on our business. The
regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies is intended to
protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking
system as a whole, and not necessarily investors in bank holding companies such
as the Company.  

  Statutes, regulations and policies could
restrict our ability to diversify into other areas of financial services,
acquire depository institutions, and pay dividends on our capital stock. They
may also require us to provide financial support to one or more of our
subsidiary banks, maintain capital balances in excess of amounts desired by
management, and pay higher deposit insurance premiums as a result of a general
deterioration in the financial condition of depository institutions. See the
 Risk Factors  section in the 2013     Annual Report to Stockholders for additional information.  

General   

Parent Bank Holding Company.     As a bank holding company, the Parent is
subject to regulation under the BHC Act and to inspection, examination and
supervision by its primary regulator, the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board or FRB). The Parent is also subject to
the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as
administered by the SEC. As a company with securities listed on the New York
Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Parent is subject to the rules of the NYSE for
listed companies.  

Subsidiary Banks.     Our subsidiary national banks, and their
subsidiaries, are subject to regulation and examination primarily by the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and also by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the FRB, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
(CFPB), the SEC and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). The
foreign branches and representative offices of our subsidiary national banks
are subject to regulation and examination by their respective foreign financial
regulators as well as by the OCC and the FRB. Foreign subsidiaries of our
national bank subsidiaries may be subject to the laws and regulations of the
foreign countries in which they conduct business. Our state-chartered bank     is subject to primary federal regulation and
examination by the FDIC and, in addition, is regulated and examined by its     state banking department.  

Nonbank Subsidiaries.         Many of our nonbank subsidiaries are also
subject to regulation by the FRB and other applicable federal and state
agencies. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by applicable
state insurance regulatory agencies, as well as the FRB. Our brokerage
subsidiaries are regulated by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (FINRA) and, in some cases, the CFTC and the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board, and state securities regulators. Our other nonbank
subsidiaries may be subject to the laws and regulations of the federal
government and/or the various states as well as foreign countries in which they
conduct business.  

Parent Bank Holding Company Activities   

Financial in Nature  Requirement.     We became a financial holding company
effective March 13, 2000. We continue to maintain our status as a bank
holding company for purposes of other FRB regulations. As a bank holding
company that has elected to become a financial holding company pursuant to the BHC Act, we may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other
activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to
activities that are financial in nature.  Financial in nature  activities
include securities underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual
funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant
banking; and activities that the FRB, in consultation with the Secretary of the
U.S. Treasury, determines to be financial in nature or incidental to such
financial activity.  Complementary activities  are activities that the FRB
determines upon application to be complementary to a financial activity and do
not pose a safety and soundness risk.  

  FRB approval is not generally required for
us to acquire a company (other than a bank holding company, bank or savings
association) engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental
to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. Prior
notice to the FRB may be required, however, if the company to be acquired has
total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. Prior FRB approval is
required before we may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than
5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of a bank holding
company, bank or savings association. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) also prohibits our ability
to merge, acquire all or substantially all of the assets of, or acquire control
of another company if our total resulting consolidated liabilities would exceed
10% of the aggregate consolidated liabilities of all financial companies.  

  Because we are a financial holding company,
if any of our subsidiary banks receives a rating under the Community
Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (CRA), of less than satisfactory, we will
be prohibited, until the rating is raised to satisfactory or better, from
engaging in new activities or acquiring companies other than bank holding
companies, banks or savings associations, except that we could engage in new
activities, or acquire companies engaged in activities, that are closely
related to banking under the BHC Act. In addition, if the FRB finds that the
Company or any one of our subsidiary banks is not well capitalized or well
managed, we would be required to enter into an agreement with the FRB to comply
with all applicable capital and management requirements and which may contain
additional limitations or conditions. Until corrected, we could be prohibited
from engaging in any new activity or acquiring companies engaged in activities
that are not closely related to banking under the BHC Act without prior FRB
approval. If we fail to correct any such condition within a prescribed period,
the FRB could order us to divest our banking subsidiaries or, in the
alternative, to cease engaging in activities other than those closely related
to banking under the BHC Act.  

2   

Interstate Banking   .  Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and
Branching Act (Riegle-Neal Act), a bank holding company may acquire banks in
states other than its home state, subject to any state requirement that the
bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to
exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company not
control, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than 10% of the
total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions nationwide or,
unless the acquisition is the bank holding company s initial entry into the
state, more than 30%     of such
deposits in the state (or such lesser or greater amount set by the state).     The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to
merge across state lines, thereby creating interstate branches. Banks are also
permitted to acquire and to establish new branches in other states.  

Regulatory Approval.         In determining whether to approve a proposed
bank acquisition, federal banking regulators will consider, among other
factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, and
future prospects including current and projected capital ratios and levels, the
competence, experience, and integrity of management and record of compliance
with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be
served, including the acquiring institution s record of compliance under the CRA, the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities and
the risk to the stability of the United States banking system.  

Dividend Restrictions   

The Parent is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiary
banks and other subsidiaries. A significant source of funds to pay dividends on
our common and preferred stock and principal and interest on our debt is
dividends from the Parent s subsidiaries. Various federal and state statutory
provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends the Parent s
subsidiary banks and certain other subsidiaries may pay without regulatory
approval. Federal banking regulators have the authority to prohibit the
Parent s subsidiary banks from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in
conducting their businesses. The payment of dividends, depending on the
financial condition of the bank in question, could be deemed an unsafe or
unsound practice. The ability of the Parent s subsidiary banks to pay dividends
in the future is currently, and could be further, influenced by bank regulatory
policies and capital guidelines. For information about the restrictions
applicable to the Parent s subsidiary banks, see Note 3 (Cash, Loan and
Dividend Restrictions) to Financial Statements included in the 2013     Annual Report to Stockholders.  

  In addition to these restrictions on the
ability of our subsidiary banks to pay dividends to us, the FRB finalized rules
in late December 2011 that require large bank holding companies (BHCs),
including Wells Fargo, to submit annual capital plans and to obtain regulatory
approval before making capital distributions, such as the payment of dividends.
The FRB also finalized rules in July 2013 implementing in the United States the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision s regulatory capital guidelines,
including the reforms known as Basel III. These rules introduce new capital
conservation buffer requirements. The failure to maintain the capital buffers,
once effective, could result in limitations or restrictions on our ability to
make capital distributions.  

  A number of regulatory proposals are also
under consideration that could further limit our ability to pay dividends. In
late 2011 the FRB proposed enhanced regulations for large BHCs like Wells Fargo
that would impose capital distribution restrictions, including on the payment
of dividends, upon the occurrence of capital, stress test, risk management, or
liquidity risk management triggers. Federal banking regulators are also
considering proposals that would impose an enhanced supplementary leverage
ratio requirement on large BHCs like Wells Fargo and our insured depository
institutions. Under the proposal, we would be required to maintain a supplementary
leverage ratio of at least 5% in order to avoid restrictions on capital
distributions and discretionary bonus payments.  

Holding Company Structure   

Transfer of Funds from Subsidiary Banks.     The Parent s subsidiary banks are subject
to restrictions under federal law that limit the transfer of funds or other
items of value from such subsidiaries to the Parent and its nonbank
subsidiaries (including affiliates) in so-called  covered transactions.  In
general, covered transactions include loans and other extensions of credit,
investments and asset purchases, as well as certain other transactions
involving the transfer of value from a subsidiary bank to an affiliate or for
the benefit of an affiliate. Unless an exemption applies, covered transactions
by a subsidiary bank with a single affiliate are limited to 10% of the
subsidiary bank s capital and surplus and, with respect to all covered
transactions with affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of the subsidiary bank s
capital and surplus. Also, loans and extensions of credit to affiliates
generally are required to be secured by qualifying collateral. A bank s
transactions with its nonbank affiliates are also generally required to be on
arm s length terms.  

Source of Strength.         The FRB has a policy that a BHC is expected
to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its
subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit resources to
support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when
the BHC may not have the resources to provide the support.  

  The OCC may order an assessment of the
Parent if the capital of one of its national bank subsidiaries were to become
impaired. If the Parent failed to pay the assessment within three months, the
OCC could order the sale of the Parent s stock in the national bank to cover
the deficiency.  

Depositor Preference.       In the event of the  liquidation or other
resolution  of an insured depository institution, the claims of deposits
payable in the United States (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of
insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC
as a receiver will have priority over other general unsecured claims against
the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, claims of insured
and uninsured U.S. depositors, along with claims of the FDIC, will have
priority in payment ahead of unsecured creditors, including the Parent, and
depositors whose deposits are solely payable at such insured depository institution s
non-U.S. offices.  

Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions.     All of the Company s subsidiary banks are
insured by the FDIC. FDIC-insured depository      

3   

institutions
can be held liable for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be
incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of an FDIC-insured depository
institution controlled by the same bank holding company, and for any assistance
provided by the FDIC to an FDIC-insured depository institution that is in
danger of default and that is controlled by the same bank holding company.
 Default  means generally the appointment of a conservator or receiver.  In
danger of default  means generally the existence of certain conditions
indicating that a default is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance.  

Dodd-Frank Act         

The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted on July 21, 2010, will result in broad
changes to the U.S. financial system and is the most significant financial
reform legislation since the 1930s. Federal regulatory agencies have issued
numerous rulemakings to implement its provisions, but a number of the
provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act still require final rulemaking or additional
guidance and interpretation by these agencies. As a result, the ultimate impact
of the Dodd-Frank Act is not yet known, but it has affected, and we expect it
will continue to affect most of our businesses in some way, either directly
through regulation of specific activities or indirectly through regulation of concentration
risks, capital or liquidity. At the enterprise level, the FRB has finalized a
number of regulations designed to prevent or mitigate the risks that may arise
from the material distress or failure of a large BHC. These rules implement
enhanced prudential requirements for large BHCs like Wells Fargo regarding
risk-based capital and leverage, risk and liquidity management, and stress
testing and would impose debt-to-equity limits on any BHC that regulators
determine poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States.
The FRB has also proposed, but not yet finalized, additional enhanced
prudential standards that would implement single counterparty credit limits and
establish remediation requirements for large BHCs experiencing financial
distress.  

  In addition to requiring rules for the
enhanced supervision and regulation of large BHCs and other systemically
important firms, the Dodd-Frank Act also requires the FDIC and FRB to implement
rules requiring large BHCs like Wells Fargo to prepare and submit resolution
plans, known as  living wills,  to facilitate the rapid and orderly resolution
of the Company in the event of material distress or its failure. Under the rules implemented by the FDIC and
FRB in this regard, Wells Fargo submitted its resolution plan on June 29, 2013.
If the FRB and FDIC determine that our resolution plan is deficient, the
Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the FRB and FDIC to impose more stringent capital,
leverage or liquidity requirements on us or restrict our growth or activities
until we submit a plan remedying the deficiencies. If the FRB and FDIC
ultimately determine that we have been unable to remedy the deficiencies, they
could order us to divest assets or operations in order to facilitate our
orderly resolution in the event of our material distress or failure. Our
national bank subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., is also required to prepare a
resolution plan for the FDIC under separate regulatory authority and submitted
the plan on June 29, 2013.  

  The FDIC also recently released a notice
regarding a proposed resolution strategy, known as  single point of entry, 
designed to resolve a large financial institution in a manner that holds
management responsible for its failure, maintains market stability, and imposes
losses on shareholders and creditors in accordance with statutory priorities,
without imposing a cost on U.S. taxpayers. Implementation of the strategy would
require that institutions maintain a sufficient amount of available equity and
unsecured debt to absorb losses and recapitalize operating subsidiaries. The
FDIC has requested public comment on this proposed resolution strategy.  

  Federal regulatory agencies have also recently
finalized rules to implement the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act known as the
 Volcker Rule.  The Volcker Rule substantially restricts banking entities from
engaging in proprietary trading or owning any interest in or sponsoring or
having certain relationships with a hedge fund, a private equity fund or
certain structured transactions that are deemed covered funds. Wells Fargo is
not required to come into compliance with the Volcker Rule s restrictions until
July 21, 2015, but we will be required to report certain trading metrics
beginning June 30, 2014. During the conformance period, banking entities are
expected to engage in  good faith  planning efforts, appropriate for their
activities and investments, to enable them to conform all of their activities
and investments to the Volcker Rule s restrictions by no later than July 21,
2015. As a banking entity with more than $50 billion in consolidated assets,
Wells Fargo will also be subject to enhanced compliance program requirements.  

  With respect to consumer protection maters,
the Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB to ensure consumers receive clear and
accurate disclosures regarding financial products and to protect consumers from
hidden fees and unfair or abusive practices.   The CFPB concentrated much of its initial rulemaking efforts on a
variety of mortgage-related topics required under the Dodd-Frank Act, including
  ability-to-repay and qualified
mortgage standards, mortgage servicing standards, loan originator compensation
standards, high-cost mortgage requirements, appraisal and escrow standards and
requirements for higher-priced mortgages. The CFPB also recently finalized rules
integrating disclosures required of lenders and settlement agents under the
Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. In addition
to the exercise of its rulemaking authority, the CFPB is continuing its
on-going examination activities with respect to a number of consumer businesses
and products, including credit card add-on products, fair lending requirements,
and student lending activities.  

  Federal regulatory agencies issued numerous other
proposals to implement various other requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act,
including rules issued by the CFTC and SEC establishing a comprehensive
framework for regulating over-the-counter derivatives. Many other proposals
have not yet been finalized, including proposed rules requiring sponsors of
asset-backed securities (ABS) to retain an ownership stake in the ABS. In
addition, both the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the SEC are
considering additional regulations to address perceived risks that money market
mutual funds may pose to the financial stability of the United States. Although
we have analyzed these and other proposed rules, the absence of final rules
makes it difficult for us to fully estimate their impact on the Company  .   

Capital Requirements    

The
Company and each of our insured depository institutions are subject to various
regulatory capital adequacy requirements administered by federal banking
regulators. In July 2013, federal banking regulators issued final rules that
substantially amended the risk-based capital rules for banking organizations.
The rules implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms in the U.S.,
comply with      

4   

changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act, and
replace the existing Basel I-based capital requirements. These final capital
rules, among other things, establish required minimum ratios relating capital
to different categories of assets and exposures. We were required to begin
complying with the rules on January 1, 2014, subject to phase-in periods that
are scheduled to be fully phased in by January 1, 2022. Federal banking
regulators have also issued proposals to impose a supplementary leverage ratio
on large BHCs like Wells Fargo and our insured depository institutions and to
implement a liquidity coverage ratio. Our capital adequacy assessment process
contemplates a wide range of risks that the Company is exposed to and also
takes into consideration our performance under a variety of stressed economic
conditions, as well as regulatory expectations and guidance, rating agency
viewpoints and the view of capital markets participants.  

  From time to time, the FRB and
the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) propose changes
and amendments to, and issue interpretations of, risk-based capital guidelines
and related reporting instructions. In addition, the FRB closely monitors
capital levels of the institutions it supervises and may require such
institutions to modify capital levels based on FRB determinations. Such
determinations, proposals or interpretations could, if implemented in the future,
affect our reported capital ratios and net risk-adjusted assets.  

  As an additional means to
identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act) requires federal banking regulators to establish
certain non-capital safety and soundness standards for institutions for which
they are the primary federal regulator. The standards relate generally to
operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure, executive
compensation and risk management. The agencies are authorized to take action
against institutions that fail to meet such standards.  

  The FDI Act requires federal banking
regulators to take  prompt corrective action  with respect to FDIC-insured
depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. A
depository institution s treatment for purposes of the prompt corrective action
provisions will depend upon how its capital levels compare to various capital
measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation.  

Capital Planning   

In
late 2011, the FRB finalized rules to require large BHCs to submit capital
plans annually for review to determine if the FRB had any objections before
making any capital distributions.   The
rule requires updates to capital plans in the event of material changes in a
BHC s risk profile, including as a result of any significant acquisitions.  

  On March 14, 2013, the FRB
notified us that it did not object to our 2013 capital plan included in the
2013 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). Since the FRB
notification, the Company took several capital actions, including increasing
its quarterly common stock dividend rate to $0.30 per share, redeeming Wachovia
Preferred Funding Corp. preferred securities that will no longer count as Tier
1 capital under the Dodd-Frank Act and the final Basel III capital standards,
and repurchasing shares of our common stock.  

  Our 2014 CCAR, which was
submitted on January 3, 2014, included a comprehensive capital plan supported
by an assessment of expected uses and sources of capital over a given planning
horizon under a range of expected and stress scenarios, similar to the process
the FRB used to conduct the CCAR in 2013. As part of the 2014 CCAR, the FRB
also generated a supervisory stress test, which assumed a sharp decline in the
economy and significant decline in asset pricing using the information provided
by the Company to estimate performance. The FRB is expected to review the
supervisory stress results both as required under the Dodd-Frank Act using a
common set of capital actions for all large BHCs and by taking into account the
Company s proposed capital actions. The FRB has indicated that it will publish
its supervisory stress test results as required under the Dodd-Frank Act, and
the related CCAR results, taking into account the Company s proposed capital
actions, in March 2014.  

Deposit Insurance Assessments    

Our bank subsidiaries, including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., are members of
the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the
FDIC insures the deposits of our banks up to prescribed limits for each depositor.
The DIF was formed March 31, 2006, upon the merger of the Bank Insurance Fund
and the Savings Insurance Fund in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance
Reform Act of 2005 (the FDIR Act). The FDIR Act established a range of 1.15% to
1.50% within which the FDIC Board of Directors may set the Designated Reserve
Ratio (reserve ratio or DRR). The FDIR Act also granted the FDIC Board the
discretion to price deposit insurance according to risk for all insured
institutions regardless of the level of the reserve ratio.  

  The Dodd-Frank Act gave the FDIC greater
discretion to manage the DIF, raised the minimum DRR to 1.35% and removed the
upper limit of the range. In October 2010, the FDIC Board adopted a Restoration
Plan to ensure that the DIF reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020,
as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. At the same time, the FDIC Board proposed a
comprehensive, long-range plan for DIF management. In December 2010, as
part of the comprehensive plan, the FDIC Board adopted a final rule to set the
DRR at 2%, and in February 2011, the FDIC Board approved the remainder of the
comprehensive plan.  

  On February 7, 2011, the FDIC Board approved
a final rule on assessments, dividends, assessment base and large bank pricing
that took effect on April 1, 2011. To maintain the DIF, member institutions are
assessed an insurance premium based on an assessment base and an     assessment rate. Generally, the assessment
base is an institution s average consolidated total assets minus average
tangible equity. For large and highly complex institutions (those that are very
large and are structurally and operationally complex or that pose unique
challenges and risks in the case of failure), the assessment rate is determined
by combining supervisory ratings and certain financial measures into
scorecards. The score received by an institution is converted into an
assessment rate for the institution. The FDIC retains the ability to adjust the
total score of large and highly complex institutions based upon quantitative or
qualitative measures not adequately captured in the scorecards.  

  All FDIC-insured depository institutions
must also pay a quarterly assessment towards interest payments on bonds issued
by the Financing Corporation, a federal corporation chartered under the
authority of the Federal Housing Finance Board. The bonds (commonly referred to as FICO bonds) were
used to capitalize the former Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.
This assessment was 0.64% of the assessable deposit base during 2013, and      

5   

is 0.62% of the assessable deposit base for first quarter
2014. For the year ended
December 31, 2013, the Company s FDIC deposit insurance assessments, including
FICO assessments, totaled $1.0 billion.  

  The FDIC may terminate a depository
institution s deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution s financial
condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or
unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or
condition enacted or imposed by the institution s regulatory agency. The
termination of deposit insurance for one or more of our bank subsidiaries could
have a material adverse effect on our earnings, depending on the collective
size of the particular banks involved.  

Fiscal
and Monetary Policies   

Our business and earnings are affected significantly by the
fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are
particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of
money and credit in the United States. Among the instruments of monetary policy
available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in United States
government securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings of depository
institutions, (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against depository
institutions  deposits, and (d) imposing or changing reserve requirements
against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are
used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of
bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and
paid on deposits. The policies of the FRB may have a material effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Privacy Provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and
Restrictions on Cross-Selling   

Federal banking regulators, as required under the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the GLB Act), have adopted rules limiting the ability
of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic information
about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. The rules require disclosure of
privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to
prevent disclosure of certain personal information to nonaffiliated third
parties. The privacy provisions of the GLB Act affect how consumer information
is transmitted through diversified financial services companies and conveyed to
outside vendors. Federal financial regulators have issued regulations under the
Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act that have the effect of increasing
the length of the waiting period, after privacy disclosures are provided to new
customers, before information can be shared among different affiliated
companies for the purpose of cross-selling products and services between those
affiliated companies.   

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) implemented a broad
range of corporate governance and accounting measures to increase corporate responsibility,
to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at
publicly traded companies, and to protect investors by improving the accuracy
and reliability of disclosures under federal securities laws. We are subject to
Sarbanes-Oxley because we are required to file periodic reports with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Among other things, Sarbanes-Oxley and/or its
implementing regulations established membership requirements and additional
responsibilities for our audit committee, imposed restrictions on the
relationship between us and our outside auditors (including restrictions on the
types of non-audit services our auditors may provide to us), imposed additional
responsibilities for our external financial statements on our chief executive
officer and chief financial officer, expanded the disclosure requirements for
our corporate insiders, required our management to evaluate our disclosure
controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and
required our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report on
our internal control over financial reporting.   

Patriot Act   

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools
Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (Patriot Act) is
intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement agencies and
intelligence communities to work together to combat terrorism on a variety of
fronts. The Patriot Act has significant implications for depository
institutions, brokers, dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of
money. The Patriot Act required us to implement new or revised policies and
procedures relating to anti money laundering, compliance, suspicious
activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers.
The Patriot Act also requires federal banking regulators to evaluate the
effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering in determining
whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition.  

Future Legislation or Regulation   

In light of recent conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets
and the U.S. and global economy, legislators, the presidential administration
and regulators have continued their increased focus on regulation of the
financial services industry. Proposals that further increase regulation of the
financial services industry have been and are expected to continue to be
introduced in the U.S. Congress,     in
state legislatures and abroad. In addition, not all regulations authorized or
required under the Dodd-Frank Act have been proposed or finalized by federal
regulators. Further legislative changes and additional regulations may     change      our operating environment in substantial and
unpredictable ways. Such legislation and regulations could increase our cost of
doing business, affect our compensation structure, restrict or expand the
activities in which we may engage or affect the competitive balance among
banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions.
We cannot predict whether future legislative proposals will be enacted and, if
enacted, the effect that they, or any implementing regulations, would have on
our business, results of operations or financial condition. The same uncertainty
exists with respect to regulations authorized or required under the Dodd-Frank
Act but that have not yet been proposed or finalized.  

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION    

Additional information in response to this Item 1 can be found in the 2013
Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Review  and      

6   

under
 Financial Statements.  That information is incorporated into this item by
reference.  

Item
1A.     Risk Factors   

Information in response to this Item 1A can
be found in this report on pages 2-7 and in the 2013 Annual Report to
Stockholders under  Financial Review   Risk Factors.  That information is
incorporated into this item by reference.  

Item 1B.     Unresolved Staff   

   Comments   

Not applicable.  

7   

Item 2.        PROPERTIES         

City  

State  

State  

We own our corporate  

We lease office space for various  

headquarters building in:  

San Francisco  

California  

administrative departments  

in major locations in:  

Arizona  

New Jersey  

We own administrative  

California  

New York  

facilities in:  

Anchorage  

Alaska  

Colorado  

North Carolina  

Chandler  

Arizona  

Delaware  

North Dakota  

Phoenix  

Arizona  

Florida  

Oregon  

Tempe  

Arizona  

Georgia  

Pennsylvania  

El Monte  

California  

Illinois  

South Carolina  

Fremont  

California  

Iowa  

South Dakota  

Irvine  

California  

Kansas  

Texas  

San Francisco  

California  

Maryland  

Virginia  

Walnut Creek  

California  

Massachusetts  

Washington  

Boise  

Idaho  

Minnesota  

Wisconsin  

Clive  

Iowa  

Missouri  

Puerto Rico  

Des Moines  

Iowa  

Nevada  

West Des Moines  

Iowa  

Minneapolis  

Minnesota  

We lease office space for  

Shoreview  

Minnesota  

various operations/  

St. Louis  

Missouri  

servicing centers in:  

California  

Oregon  

Billings  

Montana  

Florida  

Pennsylvania  

Omaha  

Nebraska  

Georgia  

Virginia  

Albuquerque  

New Mexico  

North Carolina  

Summit  

New Jersey  

Charlotte  

North Carolina  

City  

State  

Portland  

Oregon  

We are a joint venture partner  

Sioux Falls  

South Dakota  

in an office building in:  

Minneapolis  

Minnesota  

Salt Lake City  

Utah  

Glen Allen  

Virginia  

Country  

Menomonee Falls  

Wisconsin  

We lease office space for  

international operations in:  

Argentina  

Japan  

We own operations/servicing  

Australia  

Malaysia  

centers in:  

Birmingham  

Alabama  

Bahamas  

Mexico  

Homewood  

Alabama  

Bangladesh  

Netherlands  

San Leandro  

California  

Brazil  

Philippines  

Springfield  

Illinois  

Canada  

Puerto Rico  

West Des Moines  

Iowa  

Chile  

Russia  

Minneapolis  

Minnesota  

China  

Singapore  

St. Louis  

Missouri  

Colombia  

South Africa  

Charlotte  

North Carolina  

Dominican Republic  

South Korea  

Winston-Salem  

North Carolina  

Ecuador  

Spain  

Sioux Falls  

South Dakota  

France  

Taiwan  

San Antonio  

Texas  

Germany  

Thailand  

India  

Turkey  

Indonesia  

United Arab Emirates  

Ireland  

United Kingdom  

Israel  

Vietnam  

Italy  

As of December 31, 2013, we provided banking, insurance, investments,
mortgage and consumer and commercial finance from more than 9,000 domestic
stores under ownership and lease agreements.  

ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION   

Additional information in response to this Item 2 can be found in the
2013 Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Statements   Notes to
Financial Statements   Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other
Assets).  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.  

8   

Item
3.        Legal Proceedings   

Information in response to this Item 3 can be found in the 2013     Annual Report to Stockholders under
 Financial Statements   Notes to Financial Statements   Note 15 (Legal
Actions).  That information is incorporated into this item by reference.   

Item
4.            MINE
SAFETY DISCLOSURES   

Not applicable.  

9   

PART II   

Item
5.        Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

MARKET INFORMATION   

The Company s common stock is listed on the NYSE (symbol  WFC ). The
Quarterly Financial Data table of the 2013 Annual Report to Stockholders
provides the quarterly prices of, and quarterly dividends paid on, the
Company s common stock for the two-year period ended December 31, 2013,
and is incorporated herein by reference. Prices shown represent the daily high
and low, and the quarter-end sale prices of the Company s common stock as
reported on the NYSE Composite Transaction Reporting System for the periods
indicated. The  Stock Performance  section of the 2013 Annual Report to
Stockholders provides stockholder return comparisons and is incorporated herein
by reference. At January 31, 2014, there were 192,141 holders of
record of the Company s common stock.  

DIVIDENDS   

The dividend restrictions discussions on page 3 of this report and in
the 2013 Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Statements   Notes to
Financial Statements   Note 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions)  are
incorporated into this item by reference.  

REPURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   

In October 2012, our Board of Directors authorized
the repurchase of 200 million shares of our common stock. The authorization
covers shares repurchased to meet team member benefit plan requirements.   The Company maintains a variety of
retirement plans for its team members and typically is a net issuer of shares
of common stock to these plans. From time to time, it also purchases shares of
common stock from these plans to accommodate team member preferences. Share
repurchases are subtracted from the Company s repurchase authority without
offset for share issuances. Shares may be repurchased as part of employee stock
option exercises, from the different benefit plans or in the open market,
subject to regulatory approval.  

  The amount and timing of stock repurchases
will be based on various factors, including our capital requirements, the
number of shares we expect to issue for employee benefit plans and
acquisitions, market conditions (including the trading price of our stock), and
regulatory and legal considerations. In June 2010, our Board of Directors also
authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of warrants to purchase our
common stock. The warrants are listed on the NYSE under the symbol  WFCWS.  The
amount and timing of warrant repurchases will be based on various factors
including market conditions.   See the
 Capital Management  section in the 2013 Annual Report to Stockholders for
additional information about our common stock and warrant repurchases.  

10   

The following
  table shows Company repurchases of the warrants for each calendar month in
  the quarter ended December 31, 2013.  

Total
  number   

Maximum
  dollar value   

of
  warrants   

Average
  price   

of
  warrants that   

Calendar month  

repurchased
  (1)   

paid per
  warrant   

may yet
  be purchased   

October  

-   

$   

-   

451,944,402   

November  

-   

-   

451,944,402   

December  

-   

-   

451,944,402   

Total  

-   

(1)  

Warrants are purchased under the authorization covering up to $1
  billion in warrants approved by the Board of Directors (ratified and approved
  on June 22, 2010). Unless modified or revoked by the Board, this
  authorization does not expire.  

Item
6.        Selected Financial Data   

Information in response to this Item 6 can be found in the 2013     Annual Report to Stockholders under
 Financial Review  in Table 1. That information is incorporated into this item
by reference.  

Item 7.        Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

Information in response to this Item 7 can
be found in the 2013     Annual
Report to Stockholders under  Financial Review.  That information is
incorporated into this item by reference.  

Item 7A.     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk   

Information in response to this Item 7A can be found in the 2013 Annual
Report to Stockholders under  Financial Review   Risk Management  
Asset/Liability Management.  That information is incorporated into this item by
reference.  

Item
8.        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

Information in response to this Item 8 can
be found in the 2013 Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Statements, 
under  Notes to Financial Statements  and under  Quarterly Financial Data. 
That information is incorporated into this item by reference.  

Item
9.              Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

Not applicable.  

Item
9A.     Controls and Procedures   

Information in response to this Item 9A can
be found in the  

  2013 Annual Report to Stockholders under
 Controls and  

  Procedures.  That information is
incorporated into this item  

  by reference.  

Item 9B.     Other Information   

Not applicable.  

11   

PART III   

Item
10.      Directors, Executive Officers AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT   

Patricia R. Callahan (age 60)  

  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief
Administrative Officer since February 2011;  

  Executive Vice President (Office of Transition) from
January 2009 to February 2011.  

  Ms. Callahan has served with the Company or its
predecessors for 36 years.  

David M. Carroll (age 56)  

  Senior Executive Vice President (Wealth,
Brokerage and Retirement) since January 2009.  

  Mr. Carroll has served with the Company or its
predecessors for 32 years.  

Michael J. Heid (age 56)  

  Executive Vice President (Home Lending) since     July     2011;    

  Co-President of Wells Fargo Home Mortgage
from May 2004 to July 2011.  

  Mr. Heid has served with the Company or its
predecessors for 26 years.  

David A. Hoyt (age 58)  

  Senior Executive Vice President (Wholesale Banking)
since August 2005.      

  Mr. Hoyt has served with the Company or its
predecessors for 32 years.  

Richard D. Levy (age 56)  

  Executive Vice President and Controller since February
2007.  

  Mr. Levy has served with the Company for 11 years.  

Michael J. Loughlin (age 58)  

  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer
since July 2011;  

  Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer from
November 2010 to July 2011;  

  Executive Vice President and Chief Credit and Risk
Officer from April 2006 to November 2010.  

  Mr. Loughlin     has served with the Company or its
predecessors for 32 years.  

Avid Modjtabai (age 52)  

  Senior Executive Vice President (Consumer Lending) since
July 2011;  

  Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer
from April 2007 to July 2011.  

  Ms. Modjtabai has served with the Company or its
predecessors for 20 years.  

Kevin A. Rhein (age 60)  

  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer
since July 2011;  

  Executive Vice President (Card Services and Consumer
Lending) from January 2009 to July 2011.  

  Mr. Rhein has served with the Company or its
predecessors for 35 years.  

Timothy J. Sloan (age 53)  

  Senior Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer since February 2011;  

  Senior Executive Vice President
and Chief Administrative Officer from September 2010 to February 2011;  

  Executive Vice President
(Commercial Banking, Real Estate and Specialized Financial Services) of Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A.   

  from June 2006
to September 2010.   

  Mr. Sloan has served with the Company or its predecessors for 26 years.  

James
M. Strother (age 62)  

  Senior Executive Vice President
and General Counsel since July 2011;  

  Executive Vice President and
General Counsel from January 2004 to July 2011.   

  Mr. Strother has served with the Company or its
predecessors for 27 years.  

12   

John G. Stumpf
(age 60)  

  Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer since January 2010;  

  President and Chief Executive
Officer from June 2007 to January 2010.  

  Mr. Stumpf has served with the Company or its
predecessors for 32 years.  

Carrie L. Tolstedt (age 54)  

  Senior Executive Vice President
(Community Banking) since June 2007.  

  Ms. Tolstedt     has served with the Company or its predecessors
for 24 years.  

There is no family relationship
between any of the Company s executive officers or directors. All executive
officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  

AUDIT COMMITTEE INFORMATION    

The Audit and Examination Committee is a
standing audit committee of the Board of Directors established in accordance
with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The
Committee has five members: John D. Baker II, Enrique Hernandez, Jr., Federico F.
Pe a, James H. Quigley (Chair)     and
Susan G. Swenson. Each member is independent, as independence for audit
committee members is defined by NYSE rules. The Board of Directors has
determined, in its business judgment, that each member of the Audit and
Examination Committee is financially literate, as required by NYSE rules, and
that each qualifies as an  audit committee financial expert  as defined by SEC
regulations.  

CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS   

   CONDUCT    

The Company s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for team members
(including executive officers), Director Code of Ethics, the Company s
corporate governance guidelines, and the charters for the Audit and
Examination, Governance and Nominating, Human Resources, Corporate
Responsibility, Credit, Finance, and Risk Committees are available at    www.wellsfargo.com/about/corporate/corporate_governance   .      This information is also available in print
to any stockholder upon written request to the Office of the Corporate Secretary,
Wells Fargo   Company, MAC N9305-173, Wells Fargo Center, Sixth and
Marquette, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479.  

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION   

Additional information in response to this Item 10 can be found in
the Company s 2014 Proxy Statement under  Ownership of Our Common Stock  
Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,   Item 1  
Election of Directors   Director Nominees for Election  and        Other Matters Relating to Directors  and
 Corporate Governance   Director Nomination Process and Board Diversity.  That
information is incorporated into this item by reference.  

Item
11.      Executive Compensation   

Information in response to this Item 11 can be found in the Company s
2014 Proxy Statement under  Item 1  Election of Directors   Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,  under  Director Compensation, 
under  Corporate Governance   Risk Management and Compensation Practices, 
under  Information About Related Persons   Related Person Transactions,  and
under  Item 2   Executive Compensation and Advisory Resolution to Approve
Executive Compensation (Say     on      Pay)  excluding    Advisory Resolution to
Approve Executive Compensation (Say on Pay).  That information is incorporated
into this item by reference.  

13   

Item 12.      Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial OwnerS and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION   

The following table provides information about our equity compensation
plans in effect on December 31, 2013, separately aggregated for plans approved
by stockholders and for plans not approved by stockholders. A description of
the material features of each equity compensation plan not approved by
stockholders follows the table. All outstanding awards relate to shares of our
common stock. Information is as of December 31, 2013, unless otherwise
indicated.  

Equity Compensation Plan
  Information    (1)   

(a)  

(b)  

(c)  

# of
  shares remaining   

# of
  shares to be   

available
  for future   

issued
  upon exercise   

Weighted-average   

issuance
  under equity   

of
  outstanding   

exercise
  price of   

compensation
  plans   

options,
  warrants   

outstanding
  options,   

(excluding
  securities   

Plan category  

and
  rights   

warrants
  and rights (2)   

reflected
  in column (a))   

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders  

203,636,847   

(3)  

$   

28.78   

282,698,098   

(4)  

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders  

21,741,793   

(5)  

154.38   

3,119,219   

(6)  

Total  

225,378,640   

42.18   

285,817,317   

(1)  

The table above does not include information about equity
  compensation plans assumed in mergers that we froze at the time of the
  merger. Under these assumed plans a total of 1,483,828 shares of common stock
  were issuable upon exercise of options. The weighted average exercise price
  per share of our common stock of the outstanding options was $103.04. We
  assumed the amended and restated Wachovia Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive
  Plan (2003 SIP) in the Wachovia merger and in February 2009 used substantially
  all remaining available shares for stock option grants to legacy Wachovia
  team members. Information for the 2003 SIP is included in the table above
  under the plan category for equity compensation plans not approved by
  security holders. No awards have been granted since February 2009, and no
  future awards will be granted under the 2003 SIP.  

(2)  

Does not reflect restricted share rights (RSRs), restricted
  share units (RSUs), or restricted share awards (RSAs) or deferred
  compensation benefits because they have no exercise price.  

(3)  

For the Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (LTICP), consists
  of 124,119,009 shares subject to options, 60,048,670 shares subject to
  unvested RSRs, and a maximum of 14,840,431 performance shares. For the
  Supplemental 401(k) Plan, consists of 3,481,941 shares issuable upon
  distribution of benefits. For the Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral
  Plan (Directors Plan), consists of 479,637 shares subject to options, 281,435
  shares issuable upon distribution of vested but deferred stock awards, and
  385,724 shares issuable upon distribution of deferred compensation benefits.  

(4)  

We could have issued the number of shares of our common stock
  indicated in the following table pursuant to any of the award types listed
  for the plan or, if indicated for the plan, pursuant to distributions of
  deferred compensation benefits. Each share of common stock issued under the
  LTICP pursuant to awards other than options or SARs counts as two shares.  

Plan  

# of
  shares   

Award types   

LTICP  

281,967,433   

Stock options, stock, SARs, restricted stock,   

RSRs, performance shares, performance units   

Supplemental 401(k) Plan  

155,657   

Deferral distribution   

Directors Plan  

575,008   

Stock options, deferral distribution   

(5)  

For the 2003 SIP, consists of 14,881,119 shares subject to
  options and 595,324 shares subject to RSAs. For the other plans, consists of
  6,265,350 shares of common stock issuable upon distribution of deferred
  compensation benefits.  

(6)  

We could have issued the number of shares of our common stock
  indicated in the following table pursuant to any of the award types listed
  for the plan or, if indicated for the plan, pursuant to distributions of
  deferred compensation benefits. No information is provided for the 2003 SIP,
  the Norwest Corporation Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan and the Norwest
  Corporation Directors  Stock Deferral Plan because no future awards or
  deferrals will be made under these plans and because column (a) reflects all
  shares issuable under those plans upon exercise or distribution of
  outstanding awards or deferred compensation benefits.  

Plan  

# of
  shares   

Award types   

Deferred Compensation Plan  

2,830,499   

Deferral distribution   

Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent  

Contractors  

288,720   

Deferral distribution   

Material Features of Equity Compensation Plans Not
Approved by Stockholders    

The 2003 SIP    .  The amended and restated Wachovia
Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive Plan (2003 SIP) was originally approved by
Wachovia s shareholders in 2003 and prior to the merger had been used for
equity awards to Wachovia s executive officers and other key employees. We
assumed the 2003 SIP in the merger and in February 2009 used substantially all
remaining available shares for stock option grants to legacy Wachovia team
members. No awards have been granted since then, and no future awards will be
granted under the 2003 SIP.  

  At December 31, 2013, only options and stock
awards in the form of RSAs were outstanding under the 2003 SIP. The options
generally expire on the tenth anniversary of the grant date and vest ratably
over a three-year period from the grant date. The option price is payable to us
in full by methods the Board s Human Resources Committee (HRC) designates,
including, but not limited to, in cash or its equivalent, by tendering or
withholding shares of our common stock having a fair market value at the time
of exercise equal to the total option price, or by a combination of the
foregoing. Unless the HRC determines otherwise or except as prohibited by
applicable law, options may also be exercised by a  cashless exercise  where
the participant gives irrevocable instructions to a broker to promptly      

14   

deliver to us the amount of sale proceeds from the shares
covered by the option exercised, together with any withholding taxes due to the
Company. The proceeds from any cash payments upon option exercise are added to
our general funds and used for general corporate purposes. The outstanding RSAs
vest upon the achievement of the specified performance criteria. Prior to
vesting, the holders of RSAs may exercise full voting rights with respect to
those shares and are entitled to receive all dividends and other distributions
paid with respect to those shares. Each participant s award agreement will
state the extent, if any, to which the participant may receive unvested stock
awards following termination of employment.   

Deferred Compensation Plan    .  Under the Deferred Compensation
Plan eligible team members may defer receipt of salary, bonuses and certain
other compensation subject to the terms of the plan. Deferral elections are
irrevocable once made except for limited re-deferral opportunities. We treat
amounts deferred by a participant as if invested in the earnings options
selected by the participant, and determine the deferred compensation benefit
payable to the participant based on the performance of those earnings options.
The plan offers a number of earnings options, including one based on our common
stock with dividends reinvested. We generally distribute amounts allocated to
the common stock option in shares of common stock. Participants have no direct
interest in any of the earnings options and are general unsecured creditors of
the Company with respect to their deferred compensation benefits under the plan.

Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for
Independent Contractors    .  Under
the Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors
participants who perform qualifying investment or other financial services for
participating affiliates as independent contractors may defer all or part of
their eligible compensation payable to them by the affiliate subject to the
terms of the plan. Deferral elections are irrevocable once made. Amounts
deferred by a participant are treated as if invested in the earnings options
selected by the participant, which determine the deferred compensation benefit
payable to the participant. The plan offers a number of earnings options,
including one based on our common stock with dividends reinvested. We generally
distribute amounts allocated to the common stock option in shares of common
stock. The plan is sponsored by a wholly owned subsidiary, WF Deferred
Compensation Holdings, Inc. We have guaranteed its obligations under the plan.
Participants have no direct interest in any of the earnings options and are
general unsecured creditors of the plan sponsor and the Company with respect to
their deferred compensation benefits under the plan.   

Norwest Corporation Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan    .  Under the Norwest Corporation Directors 
Formula Stock Award Plan we awarded shares of common stock to non-employee
directors. The plan allowed participants to defer receipt of all or a portion
of their awards, with dividends reinvested, until a future year or years as selected
by the participants subject to the terms of the plan. Participants can elect
one time to defer commencement of distribution of their deferral accounts if
the election is made sufficiently in advance of the original distribution
commencement date and the new distribution commencement date is sufficiently
beyond the original distribution commencement date. Participants have no direct
interest in the shares deferred under the plan and are general unsecured
creditors of the Company with respect to payment of their deferred stock awards
under the plan. No future stock awards or deferrals may be made under this
plan.   

Norwest Corporation Directors  Stock Deferral Plan    .  Under the Norwest Corporation
Directors  Stock Deferral Plan a participating director could defer receipt of
all or part of the annual cash retainer and meeting fees payable to the
director until a future year or years as selected by the director subject to
the terms of the plan. A participating director could elect distribution of his
or her deferral account in a lump sum in either cash or whole shares of common
stock, or a combination of both. Alternatively, the director could elect to
receive the distribution in up to ten annual installments of cash. A
participant can elect one time to defer commencement of distribution of his or
her deferral account if the election is made sufficiently in advance of the
original distribution commencement date and the new distribution commencement
date is sufficiently beyond the original distribution commencement date. No
future deferrals may be made under this plan.  

15   

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION   

Additional
information in response to this Item 12 can be found in the Company s 2014
Proxy Statement under  Ownership of Our Common Stock   Directors and Executive
Officers  and    Principal Stockholders.  That information is incorporated into
this item by reference.  

Item
13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE   

Information in response to this Item 13 can be found in the Company s
2014 Proxy Statement under  Corporate Governance   Director Independence  and
under  Information About Related Persons.  That information is incorporated
into this item by reference.  

Item 14.      Principal AccountING Fees and Services   

Information in response to this Item 14 can
be found in the Company s 2014 Proxy Statement under  Item 3   Appointment
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for 2014   KPMG Fees  and        Audit and Examination Committee Pre-Approval
Policies and Procedures.  That information is incorporated into this item by
reference.  

16   

PART IV   

Item 15.      Exhibits AND Financial Statement
Schedules   

1.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

The Company s consolidated financial statements, including the notes
thereto, and the report of the independent registered public accounting firm
thereon, are set forth in the 2013 Annual Report to Stockholders, and are
incorporated into this item by reference.   

2.     FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

All financial statement schedules for the Company have been included in
the consolidated financial statements or the related footnotes, or are either
inapplicable or not required.   

3.     EXHIBITS    

A list of exhibits to this Form 10-K is set forth on the Exhibit Index
immediately preceding such exhibits and is incorporated into this item by
reference.  

  Stockholders may obtain a copy of any of the
following exhibits, upon payment of a reasonable fee, by writing to Wells Fargo
  Company, Office of the Corporate Secretary, Wells Fargo Center, N9305 173,
Sixth and Marquette, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479.  

  The Company s SEC file number is 001-2979.
On and before November 2, 1998, the Company filed documents with the SEC under the name Norwest Corporation. The former Wells Fargo   Company filed documents
under SEC file number 001-6214. The former Wachovia Corporation filed documents
under SEC file number 001-10000.  

17   

SIGNATURES   

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized, on February 26, 2014.  

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

By:           /s/ JOHN G. STUMPF                                                   

  John G. Stumpf  

  Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.  

By:           /s/ JOHN G. STUMPF                                                   

  John G. Stumpf  

  Chairman,
President and Chief Executive Officer  

  (Principal Executive Officer)  

  February
26, 2014  

By:           /s/ TIMOTHY J.         SLOAN                                               

  Timothy J. Sloan  

  Senior
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

  (Principal Financial Officer)  

  February
26, 2014  

By:           /s/ RICHARD D. LEVY                                                

  Richard D. Levy  

  Executive
Vice President and Controller  

  (Principal Accounting Officer)  

  February
26, 2014  

The Directors of
Wells Fargo   Company listed below have duly executed powers of attorney
empowering James H. Quigley to sign this document on their behalf.  

John D. Baker II  

Enrique Hernandez, Jr.  

James H. Quigley  

Susan G. Swenson  

Elaine L. Chao  

Donald M. James  

Judith M. Runstad  

Lloyd H. Dean  

Cynthia H. Milligan  

Stephen W. Sanger  

Susan E. Engel  

Federico F. Pe a  

John G. Stumpf  

By:           /s/ JAMES H. QUIGLEY                                              

  James
H. Quigley  

  Director
and Attorney-in-fact  

  February
26, 2014  

18   

EXHIBIT INDEX   

Exhibit  
      Number   

Description   

Location   

3(a)   

Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and
  in effect on the date hereof.  

Filed herewith.  

3(b)   

By-Laws.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
  Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 28, 2011.  

4(a)   

See Exhibits 3(a) and 3(b).  

4(b)   

The Company agrees to furnish upon request to the
  Commission a copy of each instrument defining the rights of holders of senior
  and subordinated debt of the Company.  

10(a)   *     

Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (as amended and
  restated on April 23, 2013), which includes Performance-Based Compensation
  Policy.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
  Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 26, 2013.  

Long-Term
  Incentive Compensation Plan.      

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
  Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.  

Forms of Performance Share Award
  Agreement:  

For grants on or after February 26, 2013;  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.  

For grants on February 28,     2012;   

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.  

For grants on February 22, 2011; and  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.  

For grants to
  John G. Stumpf, David M. Carroll, David A. Hoyt, and Carrie L. Tolstedt on
  June 22, 2010.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
  Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 25, 2010.  

Form of
  Retention Performance Share Award Agreement for grants to John G. Stumpf,
  David A. Hoyt, and Carrie L. Tolstedt on December 24, 2009.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
  Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 31, 2009.  

Forms of Award
  Agreement for grants of stock awards to John G. Stumpf and David A. Hoyt.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10(a), 10(b),
  10(c) and 10(d) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 6,
  2009.  

Forms of
  Restricted Share Rights Award Agreement:  

For
  grants on or after February 26, 2013, including grants to John G. Stumpf,
  Timothy J. Sloan, David M. Carroll, David A. Hoyt, and Carrie L. Tolstedt;  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.  

For
  grants on February 28, 2012, including grants to John G. Stumpf, Timothy J.
  Sloan, David M. Carroll, David A. Hoyt, and Carrie L. Tolstedt;  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.  

For
  grants on February 22, 2011, including grants to John G. Stumpf, David M.
  Carroll, David A. Hoyt, Timothy J. Sloan, and Carrie L. Tolstedt;   

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.  

For
  grants prior to February 22, 2011, including grants to John G. Stumpf, David
  M. Carroll, David A. Hoyt, Timothy J. Sloan, and Carrie L. Tolstedt;  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.  

For grant to David M. Carroll on
  December 24, 2009;  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.  

For grant to
  John G. Stumpf on August 3, 2009; and  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the
  Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 6, 2009.  

For grants to David A. Hoyt and Carrie L. Tolstedt on February 24,
  2009, as amended on November 16, 2010.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
  Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 27, 2009, and Exhibit
  10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
  31, 2010.  

Form of
  Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement, including grants to John G. Stumpf,
  David M. Carroll, David A. Hoyt, Timothy J. Sloan, and
  Carrie L. Tolstedt.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
  Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013.  

10(b)*  

Long-Term Incentive Plan.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to
  the former Wells Fargo s Proxy Statement filed March 14, 1994.  

10(c)*  

Wells Fargo Bonus
  Plan, as amended effective January 1, 2011.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the
  Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011.  

10(d)*  

Performance-Based
  Compensation Policy.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to
  the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 5, 2008.  

10(e)*  

Deferred
  Compensation Plan, as amended effective January 1, 2008.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.  

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective
  January 1, 2013.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012.  

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective
  January 1, 2011.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
  Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.  

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective
  December 1, 2009.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.  

10(f)*  

Directors Stock
  Compensation and Deferral Plan.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.  

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and
  Deferral Plan, effective April 1, 2013.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
  Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013.  

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and
  Deferral Plan, effective January 1, 2013.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
  Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013.  

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and
  Deferral Plan, effective January 24, 2012.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.  

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation
  and Deferral Plan, effective January 25, 2011.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d)
  to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
  31, 2011.  

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and
  Deferral Plan, effective February 24, 2009.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)
  to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
  31, 2009.  

Amendments to Directors Stock Compensation
  and Deferral Plan, effective September 23, 2008.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)
  to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
  September 30, 2008.  

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation
  and Deferral Plan, effective January 22, 2008.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f)
  to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
  2007.  

Action of Governance and Nominating Committee
  Increasing Amount of Formula Stock and Option Awards Under Directors Stock
  Compensation and Deferral Plan, effective January 1, 2007.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f)
  to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
  2006.  

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option
  Agreement for grants to directors on or before April 29, 2008.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b)
  to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
  2013.  

10(g)*  

Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors
  of the former Norwest.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c)
  to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
  September 30, 1999.  

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan for
  Non-Employee Directors, effective November 1, 2000.  

Filed as paragraph (4) of Exhibit 10(ff) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2000.  

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan for
  Non-Employee Directors, effective January 1, 2004.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the
  Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
  September 30, 2003.  

10(h)*  

Directors  Stock
  Deferral Plan for directors of the former Norwest.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the
  Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
  1999.  

Amendment to Directors  Stock Deferral Plan,
  effective November 1, 2000.  

Filed as paragraph (5) of Exhibit 10(ff) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended
  December 31, 2000.  

Amendment to Directors  Stock Deferral Plan,
  effective January 1, 2004.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the
  Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
  September 30, 2003.  

10(i)*  

Directors  Formula
  Stock Award Plan for directors of the former Norwest.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the
  Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
  1999.  

Amendment to Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan,
  effective November 1, 2000.  

Filed as paragraph (6) of Exhibit 10(ff) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended
  December 31, 2000.  

Amendment to Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan,
  effective January 1, 2004.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
  Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
  September 30, 2003.  

10(j)*  

Deferral Plan for
  Directors of the former Wells Fargo.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
  former Wells Fargo s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
  December 31, 1997.  

Amendment to Deferral Plan, effective
  January 1, 2004.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the
  Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
  September 30, 2003.  

10(k)*  

Supplemental
  401(k) Plan.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the
  Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 4, 2009.  

10(l)*  

Supplemental Cash
  Balance Plan.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
  Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 4, 2009.  

10(m)*  

Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f)
  to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
  December 31, 1990.  

Amendment to Supplemental Long-Term
  Disability Plan.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
  December 31, 1992.  

10(n)*  

Description of
  Relocation Program.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(y) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
  December 31, 2003.  

10(o)   

Non-Qualified
  Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(x) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
  December 31, 2007.  

Amendment to Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan
  for Independent Contractors, effective January 1, 2009.   

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.  

10(p)*  

Description of
  Chairman/CEO Post-Retirement Policy.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

10(q)*  

Description of Non-Employee Director Equity
  Compensation Program.  

Filed herewith.  

10(r)*  

Employment Agreement, dated December 30, 2008, between
  the Company and David M. Carroll.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(y) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

10(s)*  

Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Deferred
  Compensation     Plan for Non-Employee
  Directors.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(f) to
  Wachovia     Corporation s
  Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008.  

Amendment to Amended and
  Restated Wachovia Corporation Deferred Compensation     Plan for Non-Employee Directors, effective June 1, 2009.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(aa) to the
  Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009.  

10(t)*  

Wachovia Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation
  Plan.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(d) to
  Wachovia     Corporation s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997.  

10(u)*  

Wachovia Corporation Supplemental Executive Long-Term     Disability Plan, as amended and restated.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (99) to Wachovia
  Corporation s     Current
  Report on Form 8-K filed January 5, 2005.  

10(v)*  

Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Elective
  Deferral     Plan (as amended and
  restated effective January 1, 2009).  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(a) to
  Wachovia     Corporation s
  Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008.  

10(w)*  

Wachovia Corporation 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as
  amended.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(j) to
  Wachovia     Corporation s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001.  

10(x)*  

Employment Agreement between Wachovia Corporation and     David M. Carroll.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(m) to
  Wachovia     Corporation s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.  

Amendment No. 1 to
  Employment Agreement between     Wachovia Corporation and
  David M. Carroll.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(a) to
  Wachovia     Corporation s
  Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 22, 2005.  

Amendment No. 2 to
  Employment Agreement between     Wachovia Corporation and
  David M. Carroll.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(h) to
  Wachovia     Corporation s
  Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008.  

10(y)*  

Wachovia Corporation 2001 Stock Incentive Plan.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(v) to
  Wachovia     Corporation s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001.  

10(z)*  

Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration Plan.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(gg) to
  Wachovia     Corporation s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002.  

10(aa)*  

Amendment 2007-1 to Wachovia Corporation Savings
  Restoration     Plan.   

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(b) to
  Wachovia Corporation s     Current Report on Form 8-K filed December
  20, 2007.  

Amendment 2008-1 to
  Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration     Plan.   

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(c) to
  Wachovia     Corporation s
  Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008.  

10(bb)*  

Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Savings     Restoration Plan.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(b) to
  Wachovia     Corporation s
  Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008.  

10(cc)*  

Form of stock award agreement for Executive Officers
  of     Wachovia Corporation, including David
  M. Carroll.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(ss) to
  Wachovia     Corporation s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.  

10(dd)*  

Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation 2003 Stock     Incentive Plan.  

Incorporated by reference to Appendix E to Wachovia
  Corporation s     Registration
  Statement on Form S-4 (Reg. No. 333-134656) filed     on July 24, 2006.  

Amendment to Amended and
  Restated Wachovia Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive Plan, effective February
  24, 2009.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the
  Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.  

12(a)  

Computation of
  Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges:  

Filed herewith.  

Year
  ended December 31,  

2013    

2012   

2011   

2010   

2009   

Including interest  

on deposits  

7.91    

6.08   

4.32   

3.21   

2.68   

Excluding interest  

on deposits  

10.68    

8.40   

5.92   

4.32   

3.64   

12(b)  

Computation of
  Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Dividends:  

Filed herewith.  

Year
  ended December 31,  

2013    

2012   

2011   

2010   

2009   

Including interest  

on deposits  

5.99    

4.90   

3.67   

2.84   

1.69   

Excluding interest  

on deposits  

7.36    

6.21   

4.69   

3.61   

1.90   

*     
  Management contract or compensatory plan or
arrangement.   

19   

Exhibit  
     Number   

Description   

Location   

13  

2013 Annual Report to Stockholders.  

Filed herewith.   

21  

Subsidiaries of the Company.  

Filed herewith.  

23  

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm.  

Filed herewith.  

24  

Powers of Attorney.  

Filed herewith.  

31(a)  

Certification of principal executive officer pursuant
  to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

Filed herewith.  

31(b)  

Certification of principal financial officer pursuant
  to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

Filed herewith.  

32(a)  

Certification of Periodic Financial Report by Chief
  Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
  and 18 U.S.C.   1350.  

Furnished herewith.  

32(b)  

Certification of Periodic Financial Report by Chief
  Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
  and 18 U.S.C.   1350.  

Furnished herewith.  

99  

Description of Replacement Capital Covenants of Wells
  Fargo and Wachovia.  

Filed herewith.  

101.INS  

XBRL Instance Document.  

Filed herewith.  

101.SCH  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.  

Filed herewith.  

101.CAL  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.  

Filed herewith.  

101.LAB  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.  

Filed herewith.  

101.PRE  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase
  Document.  

Filed herewith.  

101.DEF  

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definitions Linkbase Document.  

Filed herewith.  

24   

<EX-3>
 2
 wfc10k_20131231-ex3a.htm
 EX-3.(A)

Exhibit 3(a)   

RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF
INCORPORATION   

OF   

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

___________________________________  

Pursuant to Section 245
of the   

   General Corporation Law
of the State of Delaware   

  ___________________________________  

Wells Fargo   Company, a corporation
organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:  

1.                   
  The present name of the
corporation is Wells Fargo   Company.    

2.                   
  The corporation was originally
incorporated under the name Northwest Bancorporation, and its original
Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State
of Delaware on January 24, 1929.  On April 26, 1983 the corporation filed an
amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation to change its name from Northwest
Bancorporation to Norwest Corporation effective April 29, 1983, and on November
2, 1998 the corporation filed an amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation
to change its name from Norwest Corporation to Wells Fargo   Company.  

3.                   
  The corporation s Board of
Directors has duly adopted this Restated Certificate of Incorporation in
accordance with the provisions of Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of
the State of Delaware.  This Restated Certificate of Incorporation only
restates and integrates and does not further amend the provisions of the
corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, as theretofore amended or
supplemented or restated, and there is no discrepancy between those provisions
and the provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation.  

4.                   
  The text of the corporation s
Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended or supplemented or
restated, is hereby restated to read in its entirety as follows:  

FIRST:  The name of this corporation is
Wells Fargo   Company.  

SECOND:  Its registered office in the
State of Delaware is located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. 
The name and address of its registered agent is Corporation Service Company,
2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware
19808.  

THIRD:  The nature of the business, or
objects or purposes to be transacted, promoted or carried on, are:  

To acquire by purchase, subscription or
otherwise, and to own and hold, for investment purposes, the capital stock,
scrip or any voting trust certificates in respect of the shares of capital
stock issued or created by any moneyed, financial or investment corporation or
association created and organized, or to be created and organized, under the
laws of the United States of America or of any State or territory thereof; and
to issue in exchange therefor shares of the capital stock of this corporation;
and while the holder or owner of any such shares of capital stock, scrip or
voting trust certificates, to possess and exercise in respect thereof any and
all rights, powers and privileges of ownership, including the right to vote
thereon;  

To loan money to any aforesaid corporation
or association, any of whose shares of capital stock, scrip or voting trust
certificates aforesaid shall be owned at the time of such loan by this
corporation, and to do any and all lawful things designed to protect, preserve,
improve or enhance the value of any such shares, scrip or voting trust
certificates;  

0   

In addition to
and not in limitation of any of the aforesaid powers, to invest temporarily any
of its capital or surplus funds in bonds, mortgages or evidences of
indebtedness and any other securities issued or created by any individual,
copartnership or other corporation, joint stock company or association, public
or private, or of the Government of the United States of America, or of any
Foreign Government, or of any State, territory, municipality or other political
subdivision or of any governmental agency;  

To acquire, hold, sell, reissue or cancel
any shares of its own capital stock; provided, however, that this corporation
may not use any of its funds or property for the purchase of its own shares of
capital stock when such use would cause any impairment of the capital of this
corporation, and provided further that the shares of its own capital stock
belonging to this corporation shall not be voted, directly or indirectly;  

To organize, incorporate and reorganize
subsidiary corporations for all lawful purposes;  

To conduct all or any part of its
operations and business without restriction or limit as to amount in the State
of Delaware or in any or all other States, territories, districts, colonies and
dependencies of the United States of America;  

To have and to exercise any and all powers
and privileges now or hereafter conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware
upon corporations formed under the Acts hereinafter referred to, or under any
Act amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto or substituted therefor;  

The foregoing clauses shall be construed
both as objects and powers; and it is hereby expressly provided that the
foregoing enumeration of specific powers shall not be held to limit or restrict
in any manner the powers of this corporation.  

FOURTH:  The total number of shares of all
classes of stock which the corporation shall have authority to issue is Six
Billion Twenty-Four Million (6,024,000,000), consisting of Twenty Million
(20,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock without par value, Four Million
(4,000,000) shares of Preference Stock without par value, and Six Billion
(6,000,000,000) shares of Common Stock of the par value of $1-2/3 per share.  

The designations and the voting powers,
preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and
qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Preferred Stock,
the Preference Stock and the Common Stock which are fixed by the Certificate of
Incorporation and the express grant of authority to the Board of Directors of
the corporation (hereinafter referred to as the  Board of Directors ) to fix by
resolution or resolutions the designations and the voting powers, preferences
and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and
qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Preferred Stock and
the Preference Stock which are not fixed by the Certificate of Incorporation
are as follows:  

1.         The Preferred Stock may be
issued at any time or from time to time in any amount, provided not more than
20,000,000 shares thereof shall be outstanding at any one time, as Preferred
Stock of one or more series, as hereinafter provided.  Each share of any one series
of Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects except as to the date
from which dividends thereon may be cumulative, each series of Preferred Stock
shall be distinctly designated by letter or descriptive words, and all series
of Preferred Stock shall rank equally and be identical in all respects except
as permitted by the provisions of Section 2 of this Article FOURTH.  Shares of
Preferred Stock shall be issued only as fully paid and non-assessable shares.  

The
Preference Stock may be issued at any time or from time to time in any amount,
provided not more than 4,000,000 shares thereof shall be outstanding at any one
time, as Preference Stock of one or more series, as hereinafter provided.  Each
share of any one series of Preference Stock shall be identical in all respects
except as to the date from which dividends thereon may be cumulative, each
series of Preference Stock shall be distinctly designated by letter or
descriptive words, and all series of Preference Stock shall rank equally and be
identical in all respects except as permitted by the provisions of Section 2 of
this Article FOURTH.  Shares of Preference Stock shall be issued only as fully
paid and non-assessable shares.  

2.         Authority is hereby expressly
granted to and vested in the Board of Directors at any time or from time to
time to issue the Preferred Stock as Preferred Stock of any series   and the Preference Stock
as Preference Stock of any series   and, in
connection with the creation of each such series, to fix by resolution or resolutions
providing for the issue of shares      

1   

thereof the
designations and the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating,
optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or
restrictions thereof, of such series so far as not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Article FOURTH applicable to all series of Preferred Stock
or Preference Stock, respectively, and to the full extent now or hereafter
permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware, including the following:  

(a)        The
distinctive designation of such series and the number of shares which shall
constitute such series, which number may be increased (except where otherwise
provided by the Board of Directors in creating such series) or decreased (but
not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) from time to time by
like action of the Board of Directors;  

(b)        The
annual rate or rates of dividends payable on shares of such series, whether
dividends shall be cumulative and, if so, the date or dates from which dividends
shall be cumulative on the shares of such series, the preferences,
restrictions, limitations and conditions upon the payment of dividends, and the
dates on which dividends, if declared, shall be payable;  

(c)        Whether
shares of such series shall be redeemable and, if so, the terms and conditions
of such redemption, including the date or dates upon or after which they shall
be redeemable, and the amount per share payable in case of redemption, which
amount may vary under different conditions and at different redemption dates;  

(d)        The
rights of the shares of such series in the event of voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation, and the relative
rights of priority, if any, of payment of shares of such series;  

(e)        Whether
shares of such series shall have a purchase, retirement or sinking fund for the
purchase, retirement, or redemption of shares of such series and, if so, the
terms and provisions thereof;  

(f)        Whether
shares of such series shall have conversion privileges and, if so, the terms
and provisions thereof, including provision for adjustment of the conversion
rate in such events as the Board of Directors shall determine;  

(g)        Whether
shares of such series shall have voting rights, in addition to voting rights
provided by law, and, if so, the terms and provisions thereof; and  

(h)        Any
other preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special
rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof.  

3.         The holders of the Preferred
Stock of each series   and
the holders of the Preference Stock of each series, respectively,   shall be entitled to receive such dividends, when and
as declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available therefor,
as they may be entitled to in accordance with the resolution or resolutions
adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the issue of such series,
payable on such dates as may be fixed in such resolution or resolutions.  So
long as there shall be outstanding any shares of Preferred Stock of any series
or any shares of Preference Stock of any series entitled to cumulative
dividends pursuant to the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of
such series, no dividend, whether in cash or property, shall be paid or
declared, nor shall any distribution be made, on the Common Stock, nor shall
any shares of Common Stock be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for
value by the corporation, if at the time of making such payment, declaration,
distribution, purchase, redemption or acquisition the corporation shall be in
default with respect to any dividend payable on, or obligation to maintain a
purchase, retirement or sinking fund with respect to or to redeem, shares of
Preferred Stock of any series or shares of Preference Stock of any series.  The
foregoing provisions of this Section 3 shall not, however, apply to a dividend
payable in Common Stock or to the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in
exchange for, or through application of the proceeds of the sale of, shares of
Common Stock.  

Subject to the foregoing and to any
further limitations prescribed in accordance with the provisions of Section 2
of this Article FOURTH, the Board of Directors may declare, out of any funds
legally available therefor, dividends upon the then outstanding shares of
Common Stock, and shares of Preferred Stock of any series and shares of
Preference Stock of any series shall not be entitled to participate therein.  

2   

4.         In
the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding
up of the corporation, the holders of the Preferred Stock of each series and
the holders of the Preference Stock of each series shall be entitled to
receive, out of the assets of the corporation available for distribution to its
stockholders, before any distribution of assets shall be made to the holders of
the Common Stock, the amount per share fixed by the Board of Directors pursuant
to Section 2 of this Article FOURTH, plus in each such case an amount equal to
any cumulative dividends thereon to the date of final distribution to the
holders of the Preferred Stock or to the holders of the Preference Stock,
respectively; and the holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled, to the
exclusion of the holders of the Preferred Stock of any and all series and the
holders of the Preference Stock of any and all series, respectively, to
participate ratably in all the assets of the corporation then remaining in
accordance with their respective rights and preferences.  If upon any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation the assets available
for distribution shall be insufficient to pay the holders of all outstanding
shares of Preferred Stock or the holders of all outstanding shares of
Preference Stock the full amounts to which they respectively shall be entitled,
the holders of shares of Preferred Stock of all series and the holders of
shares of Preference Stock of all series, respectively, shall participate
ratably in any distribution of assets according to the respective amounts which
would be payable in respect of the shares of Preferred Stock or shares of
Preference Stock held by them upon such distribution if all amounts payable in
respect of the Preferred Stock of all series or the Preference Stock of all
series, respectively, were paid in full.  Neither the statutory merger nor
consolidation of the corporation into or with any other corporation, nor the
statutory merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the
corporation, nor a sale, transfer or lease of all or any part of the assets of
the corporation, shall be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up
of the corporation within the meaning of this Section 4.  

5.         The corporation, at the option
of the Board of Directors, may redeem the whole or any part of the Preferred
Stock of any series or of the Preference Stock of any series at the price or
prices and on the terms and conditions provided in the resolution or
resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the issue of such
series.  

6.         Anything herein or in any
resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the
issue of any series of Preferred Stock or any series of Preference Stock
contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the rights of the holders of all
classes of stock of the corporation in respect of dividends and purchase,
retirement or sinking funds, if any, shall at all times be subject to the power
of the Board of Directors from time to time to set aside such reserves and to
make such other provisions, if any, as the Board of Directors shall deem to be
necessary or advisable for working capital, for expansion of the corporation's
business (including the acquisition of real and personal property for that
purpose) and for any other purpose of the corporation.  

7.         Except as otherwise provided by
the statutes of the State of Delaware or by the Certificate of Incorporation or
by the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing
for the issue of any series of Preferred Stock or any series of Preference
Stock, the holders of the Preferred Stock and the holders of the Preference
Stock shall have no right to vote.  The holders of the Preferred Stock and the
holders of the Preference Stock shall not be entitled to receive notice of any
meeting of stockholders at which they are not entitled to vote or consent.  The
holders of shares of Preference Stock shall not be entitled to more than one
vote per share.  

8.         Except as otherwise provided by
the statutes of the State of Delaware or by the Certificate of Incorporation or
by the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing
for the issue of any series of Preferred Stock or any series of Preference
Stock, the vote of the holders of all or any portion of any class of stock, as
a class, shall not be required for any action whatsoever to be taken or
authorized by the stockholders of the corporation, including any amendment of
the Certificate of Incorporation.  

9.         No holder of shares of the
corporation of any class or of any security or obligation convertible into, or
of any warrant, option or right to subscribe for, purchase or otherwise
acquire, shares of the corporation of any class, whether now or hereafter
authorized, shall, as such holder, have any preemptive right whatsoever to
subscribe for, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of the corporation of any
class or any security or obligation convertible into, or any warrant, option or
right to subscribe for, purchase or otherwise acquire, shares of the
corporation of any class, whether now or hereafter authorized.  

10.       If it deems it desirable so to
do, the Board of Directors may from time to time issue scrip for fractional
shares of stock.  Such scrip shall not confer upon the holder any voting or
other rights of a stockholder of the corporation, but the corporation shall
from time to time, within such time as the Board of Directors may determine,
issue one whole share      

3   

of stock upon the surrender of
scrip for fractional shares aggregating one whole share, properly endorsed if
in registered form.  

Pursuant to the authority conferred by this
Article FOURTH, the following series of Preferred Stock have been designated,
each such series consisting of such number of shares, with such voting powers, designations,
preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and
qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as are stated and expressed
in the exhibit with respect to such series attached hereto as specified below
and incorporated herein by reference:  

Exhibit A   

1997 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock   *   

Exhibit B   

1998 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock   *   

Exhibit C   

1999 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock   *   

Exhibit D   

2000 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock   *   

Exhibit E   

2001 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock   *   

Exhibit F   

2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock   *   

Exhibit G   

2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock   

Exhibit H   

2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock   

Exhibit I  

2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  

Exhibit J  

2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  

*Wells Fargo   Company has filed
Certificates Eliminating the Certificates of Designations for each of Wells
Fargo's 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, and 2004 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock (Exhibits A through H above)  

FIFTH:  The amount of capital
with which this corporation will commence business is One Thousand Dollars
($1,000.00), being twenty (20) shares of the par value of Fifty Dollars
($50.00) each.    

SIXTH:  The names and places of
residence of the subscribers to the capital stock and the number of shares
subscribed for by each are as follows:   

Name                                      Residence                           No.
of Shares   

A. V. Lane                    Wilmington,
Delaware                   18  

                            C. S. Peabbles               Wilmington,
Delaware                    1  

                            L. E. Gray                     Wilmington,
Delaware                    1  

SEVENTH:  This corporation is to have
perpetual existence.  

EIGHTH:  The private property of the
stockholders shall not be subject to the payment of corporate debts to any
extent whatever.  

NINTH:  The number of Directors of the
corporation shall be as specified in the By-Laws, and such number may from time
to time be increased or decreased in such manner as may be prescribed in the
By-Laws, provided the number of Directors of the corporation shall not be less
than three (3).  In case of any increase in the number of Directors, the
additional Directors may be elected by the Board of Directors to hold office
until the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until their successors
are elected and qualified.  In case of a vacancy in the Board of Directors, a
majority of the remaining members of the Board may elect Directors to fill such
vacancy.  

Directors shall be stockholders.  

TENTH:  In furtherance and not in
limitation of the powers conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware, the
Board of Directors is expressly authorized:  

To make, alter, amend or repeal the
By-Laws of the corporation, except as otherwise provided in said By-Laws;  

To determine from time to time whether and
to what extent and at what times and places and under what conditions and
regulations the accounts and books of the corporation, or any of them, shall be
open to the inspection of the stockholders; and no stockholder shall have any
right to inspect any account or book or document of the corporation except      

4   

as conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware, unless
and until authorized so to do by resolution of the Board of Directors, or of
the stockholders.  

To set apart out of any funds of the
corporation available for dividends a reserve or reserves for working capital
or for any other lawful purpose, and also to abolish any such reserve in the
same manner in which it was created;  

If the By-Laws so provide, to designate
two or more of its number to constitute an Executive Committee, which Committee
shall for the time being, as provided in said resolution or in the By-Laws of
this corporation, have and exercise any or all of the powers of the Board of
Directors in the management of the business and affairs of this corporation and
have power to authorize the seal of this corporation to be affixed to all
papers which may require it.  

This corporation may in its By-Laws confer
powers upon its Directors in addition to the foregoing and in addition to the
powers and authorities expressly conferred upon them by the Statute.  

Both stockholders and Directors shall have
power, if the By-Laws so provide, to hold their meetings and to have one or
more offices within or without the State of Delaware and to keep the books of
this corporation (subject to the provisions of the Statutes) outside of the
State of Delaware at such places as may be from time to time designated by the
Board of Directors.  

ELEVENTH:  In the absence of fraud, no
contract or transaction between this corporation and any other association or
corporation shall be affected by the fact that any of the Directors or officers
of this corporation are interested in or are Directors or officers of such
other association or corporation, and any Director or officer of this
corporation individually may be a party to or may be interested in any such
contract or transaction of this corporation; and no such contract or
transaction of this corporation with any person or persons, firm, association
or corporation shall be affected by the fact that any Director or officer of
this corporation is a party to or interested in such contract or transaction in
any way connected with such person or persons, firm, association or
corporation; provided that such contract or other transaction shall be
authorized or ratified by the vote of a majority of the Directors of this
corporation not so interested; and each and every person who may become a
Director or officer of this corporation is hereby relieved from any liability
that might otherwise exist from thus contracting with this corporation for the
benefit of himself or any person, firm, association or corporation in which he
may be in anywise interested.  

TWELFTH:  This corporation reserves the right
to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate
of Incorporation in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by Statute, and all
rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this
reservation.  

THIRTEENTH:  The Board of Directors is
expressly authorized:  

(i)         to
adopt, and from time to time to amend, one or more pension, profit sharing,
retirement, and benefit plans benefiting any or all officers and employees and
former officers and employees of this corporation and affiliated banks and
companies;  

(ii)        to
adopt, and from time to time to amend, one or more stock option, stock
purchase, stock bonus, incentive, and compensation plans benefiting any or all
officers and employees of this corporation and affiliated banks and
corporations; and  

(iii)       to
authorize affiliated banks and companies, on behalf of this corporation as a
stockholder therein, to adopt, and from time to time to amend, any of said
types of plans enumerated in clause (i) of this Article THIRTEENTH benefiting
any or all officers and employees and former officers and employees thereof and
any of said types of plans enumerated in clause (ii) of this Article THIRTEENTH
benefiting any or all officers and employees thereof.  

No action shall be taken under this
Article except by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors in office
at the time such action is taken, and such majority shall not include any
director who is a salaried officer of the corporation or of any affiliated bank
or company.  

5   

FOURTEENTH: 
(a)     Elimination of Certain Liability of Directors   .  A director of the
corporation shall not be personally liable to the corporation or its
stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director,
except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to
the corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good
faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law,
(iii) under Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (iv) for
any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit.  

(b)(1)     Right to
Indemnification   .  Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened
to be a made a party to or is involved in any action, suit or proceeding,
whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a
 proceeding ), by reason of the fact that he or she, or a person of whom he or
she is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer of the
corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a
director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a
partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with
respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is
alleged action or inaction in an official capacity as a director, officer,
employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director,
officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the
corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General
Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the
case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the
corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted
the corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense,
liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise
taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably
incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such
indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director,
officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs,
executors and administrators; provided, however, that, except as provided in
subparagraph (b)(2), the corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking
indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by
such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the
Board of Directors of the corporation.  The right to indemnification conferred
in this paragraph (b) shall be a contract right and shall include the right to
be paid by the corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such
proceeding in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that, if the
Delaware General Corporation Law requires, the payment of such expenses
incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or
officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by
such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service
to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding,
shall be made only upon delivery to the corporation of an undertaking, by or on
behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it
shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to
be indemnified under this paragraph (b) or otherwise.  The corporation may, by
action of its Board of Directors, provide indemnification to employees and
agents of the corporation with the same scope and effect as the foregoing
indemnification of directors and officers.  

(2)     Right of Claimant to Bring Suit   . 
If a claim under subparagraph (b)(1) is not paid in full by the corporation
within 30 days after a written claim has been received by the corporation, the
claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the corporation to
recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part,
the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such
claim.  It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought
to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance
of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required,
has been tendered to the corporation) that the claimant has not met the
standards of conduct which make it permissible under the Delaware General
Corporation Law for the corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount
claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the corporation. 
Neither the failure of the corporation (including its Board of Directors,
independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination
prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant
is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable
standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an
actual determination by the corporation (including its Board of Directors,
independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the claimant has not met
such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create
a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.  

(3)     Non-Exclusivity of Rights   . 
The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending
a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this paragraph
(b) shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or
hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of
Incorporation, by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested
directors or otherwise.  

6   

(4)     Insurance   . 
The corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and
any director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or another
corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any
such expense, liability or loss, whether or not the corporation would have the
power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under
the Delaware General Corporation Law.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this
Restated Certificate of Incorporation is executed on behalf of the corporation
by its Chairman and attested by its Secretary this     28 th      day
of September, 2006.  

/s/
Richard M. Kovacevich                                         

                                                                                Richard
M. Kovacevich, Chairman  

Attest:           /s/ Laurel A. Holschuh                            

              Laurel A. Holschuh,
Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
September 28, 2006.]  

EXHIBIT I    

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  

  Pursuant to Section 151 of the  

  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware  

  ___________________________________  

2005 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

  (Without Par Value)  

  ___________________________________  

WELLS FARGO  
COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority
conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the
provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as
amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of
Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to
authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the
 ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation
Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by the
resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly
adopted by the Board at a meeting of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000,
and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the ESOP Committee
duly adopted on March 11, 2005, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the
General Corporation Law:  

1.         On
January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board
Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP
Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions,
in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock
( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan
hereinafter referred to:   

RESOLVED
that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed
by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ),
which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to
these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP
Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1-2/3 par
value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection
therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other
rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell
such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions      

7   

and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its
discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First
Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate.  

RESOLVED
that Richard M. Kovacevich is designated to serve as the sole member of the
First Committee until his successor is duly elected and qualified.  

*  *  *  *  

RESOLVED that any
series of ESOP Preferred Stock authorized for issuance by the First Committee .
.. . shall have the voting rights set forth in Appendix A to these resolutions.   

APPENDIX A - VOTING
RIGHTS  

No series of the Preferred Stock, except
as hereinafter set forth in this resolution or as otherwise from time to time
required by law, shall have voting rights.  Whenever, at any time or times,
dividends payable on any shares of a designated series of the Preferred Stock
(such shares of such designated series of Preferred Stock being hereinafter
referred to as the  Shares of such series ) shall be in arrears for such number
of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540
days, the holders of the outstanding Shares of such series shall have the
exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one
or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the Shares of
such series, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have
been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at
the Company's next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual
meeting of stockholders.  At elections for such directors, each holder of the
Shares of such series shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the
holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a
parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of
Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such
right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board
shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall
be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding Shares of such series
(together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of
Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have
been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such
holders of such Shares of such series (voting together as a class with the
holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on
such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until
such time as all dividends accumulated on such Shares of such series shall have
been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such Shares of such
series shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject
to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character
above mentioned.  

Upon
any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock
entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all
directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall
terminate immediately.  If the office of any director elected by such holders
voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement,
disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director
elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such
successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such
vacancy occurred.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such
holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in
such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of
directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the
Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this
resolution.  

So
long as any Shares of such series remain outstanding, the consent of the
holders of the outstanding Shares of such series and outstanding shares of all
other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with such Shares of such
series either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred
and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such outstanding
Shares of such series and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together
as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or
annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or
validate any one or more of the following:  

8   

(a)        the
authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to the Shares of
such series with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets
on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   

(b)        the amendment, alteration or
repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions
of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in
a Certificate of Designation for the Shares of such series designating the
Shares of such series and the preferences and relative, participating, optional
and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions
thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference,
privilege or voting power of the Shares of such series or of the holders
thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized
Preferred Stock or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred
Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of
Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Shares
of such series with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to
materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting
powers.  

The
foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when
the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be
effected, all outstanding Shares of such series shall have been redeemed or
sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.  

2.         On
March 11, 2005, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the
ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolutions by
written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation
Law:  

RESOLVED that the
issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is
hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and
relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set
forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended,
are hereby fixed as follows:  

2005
ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

1.     Designation
and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue   .   

(a) The
designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for
herein shall be  2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter
referred to as the  2005 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized
shares constituting the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock is 363,000, based on an
offering price for the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,067.10 per share.  Each
share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per
share.  The number of authorized shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock may be
reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities
Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction
has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares
of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding
number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized
shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company
shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and
may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock.  

(b)  Shares
of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee )
acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor
to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which
the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with
respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of record ownership of
shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor
trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred,
upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder
thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par
value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms
otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4
hereof, and no such transferee      

9   

shall have any of the
voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special
rights ascribed to shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather,
only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such
shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of
such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common
Stock into which such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock have been
automatically converted as of the date of such transfer.  Shares of 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s
option.  Certificates representing shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall
bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions.  In the case of
uncertificated 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock book entry account.  The Company may require that, as a condition to
transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock,
the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in
paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of
Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of
Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder
thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon
the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof.  

              2.     Voting
Rights   .  No shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights
except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as
set forth in this Section 2, as follows:  

(a)  Whenever,
at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the
aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares
of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as
a class with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred
Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, either
as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company's next annual
meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders. 
At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares
of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity being entitled
to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may
be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the
maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be
increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of
the holders of such outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock (together
with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock
ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred
and are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such holders of such
shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the
holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on
such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until
such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to
such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or
by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every
subsequent default of the character above mentioned.  

(b)  Upon
any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock
entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all
directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall
terminate immediately.  If the office of any director elected by such holders
voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement,
disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director
elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such
successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such
vacancy occurred.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such
holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in
such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of
directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the
Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this
resolution.  

(c)  So
long as any shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent
of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock and
outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity
with such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to dividends or the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon
which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of
at least two-thirds of all such outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock
and such other series of Preferred      

10   

Stock voting
together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any
special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit,
effect or validate any one or more of the following:  

(i)  the
authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2005
ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   

(ii)  the
amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise,
of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the
resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations designating shares of
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating,
optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and
restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right,
preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the
amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other
series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares
of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or
junior to the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment
of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights,
preferences, privileges or voting powers.  

(d)  The
foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when
the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be
effected, all outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been
redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such
redemption.  

3.     Dividends   .  (a)(i) 
Holders of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive,
when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out
of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend
of $97.50 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject
to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3.  

(ii)  The
Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2006 and on each
December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2014, as follows:    

(1)  If
the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock
on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if
November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment
Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than
the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash
dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $102.50 per
share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).    

(2)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the
next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year
listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the
Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend
for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $107.50 per share
(the  Second Adjusted Dividend ).  

(3)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next
preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed
in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price
shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately
following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend.  

1)                     
     Dividend Adjustment
Table    

11   

(4)  As
an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above,
if on November 30, 2008, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock
is $85.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve
month period per share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $102.50, with
the first quarterly payment of such $102.50 dividend to be made on March 1,
2009.  If on November 30, 2009, the Current Market Price of one share of Common
Stock is $115.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following
twelve month period per share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $107.50,
with the first quarterly payment of such $107.50 dividend to be made on March
1, 2010.  If on November 30, 2010, the Current Market Price of one share
of Common Stock is $85.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock would
equal $97.50, with the first quarterly payment of such $97.50 dividend to be
made on March 1, 2011.  

(5)  For
purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second
Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the
term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section
4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in
Section 4(c)(vi).  

(iii)  If
one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table
shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of
shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up,
combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon
shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target
Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each
subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted.  

(iv)  Dividends
payable on shares of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are
equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable
quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year,
commencing June 1, 2005.  Dividends on shares of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock
will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2005
ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of
record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates,
not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates
thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee
thereof.  The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period
shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted
Dividend, whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for
the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period
shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of
twelve 30-day months.  

(b)(i)  No
full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock
of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2005
ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been
or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for
the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the
date of payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid
in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock and any
other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2005
ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to
dividends with 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the
amount of dividends declared per share on 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other
series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio
that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock and
such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other.  Holders of shares of
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether
payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as
herein provided, on 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in
lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or
payments on 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears.  

12   

(ii)  So
long as any shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend
(other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants,
or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other
stock ranking junior to 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon
liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3)
shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution
declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company
ranking junior to or on a parity with 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends
or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of
the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock as
to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired
for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking
fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except
by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2005
ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each case,
the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then
current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods.  

4.     Conversion   .  Shares
of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter
pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that
number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of
each share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion
Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows:  

(a)  Each
share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the
Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted,
without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date
such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable
shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2005
ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.  

(b)  Subject
to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2005
ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of
business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5
or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock
held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of
Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   

(c)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:   

(i)  The
 Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be
deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common
Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day
occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is
defined in Section 6(d) hereof).  

(ii)  A
 Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which
state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are
not required to be open.  

(iii)  (A)  For
purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the
relevant Release Date.  

(B)  For
purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the
date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this
Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock
designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.   

13   

(C)  For
purposes of a conversion of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of
Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d)
hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.   

Each share of 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes
of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of
Common Stock into which the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock will be
converted.    

(iv)  The
 Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other
class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for
any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no
sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked
prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New
York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the
Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to
trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of
the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations
System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market
System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the
over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for
the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ,
the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New
York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock
selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such
quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as
determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in
the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof.  

                                      (v)   Common
Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the
date of this Certificate of Designations or as such stock may be constituted
from time to time.  

(vi)   Trading
Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or
admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national
securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other
national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common Stock is
quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be
made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day.  

                          (d) 
In connection with any conversion of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this
Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be
delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of
the transfer agent for the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices
in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to
time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock by
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, which
notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly
assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly
executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for
the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this
Section 4.  Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a
mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of
shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of
the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2005
ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any
conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the
certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock not to
be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes
delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion,
and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably
request.  

(e)  Upon
delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock
of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required
to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, 
the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class
mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder's designee, at
the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the
number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon
conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates
representing shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of      

14   

which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and
deliver to such holder or such holder's designee, in the manner set forth in
the preceding sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the
number of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been
converted.  

                          (f)  The
issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares
of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this
Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of
shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section
4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of
such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of
(A) the delivery to such holder or such holder's designee of the certificates
representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B)
the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to
effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and
after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to
receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all
purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no
allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to
holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. 
The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have
accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2005
ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or
after the effective date of conversion of such shares.  

                          (g)  The
Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any
conversion of such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may
make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.  

                          (h)  The
Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and
unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights,
such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable
upon the conversion of all the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock then
outstanding.  

                          (i)  The
Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common
Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock
prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange,
if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such
delivery.  

                          (j)  The
Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer
taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on
conversions of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be
payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares
of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made
unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the
Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of
the Company, that such tax has been paid.  

                          5.     Redemption
At the Option of the Company   .  (a)  The 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the
Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to
all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and
(y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this
Section 5) per share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for
redemption.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in
cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by
paragraph (c) of this Section 5.  From and after the date fixed for redemption,
dividends on shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will
cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall
cease, except the right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the
redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the
Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full
cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set
aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, the
Company may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5.  

                          (b)  Unless
otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5
will be sent to the holders of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown
on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by
first-class mail      

15   

(postage prepaid) delivered, sent or
mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty
(60) days prior to the redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the
redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are
to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder;
(iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be
paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common
Stock and cash; (v) in the case of certificated 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock the
place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for
payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be
redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; and (vii) the conversion
rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights
may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock
issuable upon conversion of a share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock will be
determined.  The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not
previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption
price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the
redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are
surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of
Directors of the Company shall so require and the notice shall so state).  

                          (c)  The
Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon
redemption of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of
Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such
shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market
Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current
Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2005
ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the
greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock then being redeemed.  

                          (d)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

                                      (i)   Adjustment
Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding
the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.  

                                      (ii)   Fair
Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of
capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are
publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or
securities for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of
any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date
as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as
determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced
in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the
Board or a committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of
paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined
by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance
with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5)
or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a
redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value
of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i)
that all dividends on the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when
due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a)
hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with
accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in
accordance with the terms of that certain 2005 ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock
Note Agreement dated on or about March 17, 2005 between the Company and
the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto).  

              6.     Consolidation,
Merger, Etc.     (a)  If the Company consummates any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the
outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for
or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or
resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying
employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock
within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable,
for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2005
ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such
consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall
become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in
respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences
and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the
redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6      

16   

hereof),
and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the
following:  

                          (1)  After
such transaction each share of the 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4
hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so
receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior
to such transaction.  

                          (2)  The
Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar
transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as
aforesaid.  

                          (b)  If
the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business
combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by
operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other
stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof,
other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying
employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and
cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares
of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the
Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this
Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger,
consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation
into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same
terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for
the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in
like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into
which such shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted
immediately prior to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure
of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election
with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such
transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall,
by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of
Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock,
securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of
the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction
if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to
the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon
such transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other
property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing
share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property
receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind
and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares.  

                          (c)  In
the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph
(b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as
soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business
Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and
the material terms thereof to each holder of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock and each
such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to
receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is
consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption
and retirement of such 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued
and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or
(y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the
last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately
preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated.  No such notice of
redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of
business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction,
unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior
notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be
withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of
business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction.  

(d)  In
the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and
shall be continuing, each holder of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the
right to convert shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common
Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until
the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because
the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has
expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company
not later than the close of      

17   

business on the date the
Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the
Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any
notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to
the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.  

For
purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

(i) 
 Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person 
shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the
Exchange Act.  

(ii)  A
 Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company
or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is
defined in Rule 14d 2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or
exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation
of such offer, such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein)
or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more
of the voting power of the Company.  

7.     Liquidation
Rights   .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
Company, the holders of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available
for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall
be made on the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2005
ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus
a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares
accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution.  

(b)  Neither
the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company,
nor the merger or consolidation of the Company into or with any other
corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or
with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding
up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7.  

(c)  After
the payment to the holders of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2005
ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the
remaining assets of the Company.  

(d)  In
the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders
of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or
winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be
insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made
on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other
capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2005 ESOP
Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless
proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable
amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled
upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.  

(e)  Subject
to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of
stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation,
dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made
in full to the holders of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided
in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes
of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock upon
liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any)
applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be
paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall not be entitled to share therein.  

8.     Ranking   .  For
the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes
of the Company shall be deemed to rank:  

(a)  prior
to the shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be
entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon      

18   

dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company,
as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2005
ESOP Preferred Stock;  

(b)  on
a parity with shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or
upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or
redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any,
be different from those of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such
stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable
upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may
be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices,
without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of
such stock and the holders of shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock; and  

(c)  junior
to shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of
2005 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of
amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares
of such series or class or classes.  

9.     Priority
of 2005 ESOP Preferred Stock   .  The shares of 2005 ESOP Preferred
Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company's 1996 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 1997 ESOP Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock, its 1998 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 1999
ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2000 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2001 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, its 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2003 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, and its 2004 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock.    

    EXHIBIT J    

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  

  Pursuant to Section 151 of the  

  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware  

  ___________________________________  

2006 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

  (Without Par Value)  

  ___________________________________  

WELLS FARGO  
COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority
conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the
provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as
amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of
Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to
authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the
 ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation
Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by the
resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly
adopted by the Board at a meeting of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000,
and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the ESOP Committee
duly adopted on March 17, 2006, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the
General Corporation Law:  

1.         On
January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board
Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP
Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions,
in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock
( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan
hereinafter referred to:   

RESOLVED
that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed
by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ),
which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to
these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP
Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1-2/3 par
value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection
therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other
rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell
such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions      

19   

and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its
discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First
Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate.  

RESOLVED
that Richard M. Kovacevich is designated to serve as the sole member of the
First Committee until his successor is duly elected and qualified.  

*  *  *  *  

RESOLVED that any
series of ESOP Preferred Stock authorized for issuance by the First Committee .
.. . shall have the voting rights set forth in Appendix A to these resolutions.   

APPENDIX A - VOTING
RIGHTS  

No series of the Preferred Stock, except
as hereinafter set forth in this resolution or as otherwise from time to time
required by law, shall have voting rights.  Whenever, at any time or times,
dividends payable on any shares of a designated series of the Preferred Stock
(such shares of such designated series of Preferred Stock being hereinafter
referred to as the  Shares of such series ) shall be in arrears for such number
of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540
days, the holders of the outstanding Shares of such series shall have the
exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one
or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the Shares of
such series, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have
been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at
the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual
meeting of stockholders.  At elections for such directors, each holder of the
Shares of such series shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the
holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a
parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of
Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such
right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board
shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall
be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding Shares of such series
(together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of
Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have
been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such
holders of such Shares of such series (voting together as a class with the
holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on
such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until
such time as all dividends accumulated on such Shares of such series shall have
been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such Shares of such
series shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject
to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character
above mentioned.  

Upon
any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock
entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all
directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall
terminate immediately.  If the office of any director elected by such holders voting
as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement,
disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director
elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such
successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such
vacancy occurred.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such
holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in
such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of
directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the
Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this
resolution.  

So
long as any Shares of such series remain outstanding, the consent of the
holders of the outstanding Shares of such series and outstanding shares of all
other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with such Shares of such
series either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred
and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such outstanding
Shares of such series and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together
as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or
annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or
validate any one or more of the following:  

20   

(a)        the
authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to the Shares of
such series with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets
on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   

(b)        the amendment, alteration or
repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions
of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in
a Certificate of Designation for the Shares of such series designating the
Shares of such series and the preferences and relative, participating, optional
and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions
thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference,
privilege or voting power of the Shares of such series or of the holders
thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized
Preferred Stock or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred
Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of
Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Shares
of such series with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to
materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting
powers.  

The
foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when
the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be
effected, all outstanding Shares of such series shall have been redeemed or
sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.  

2.         On
March 17, 2006, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the
ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolutions by
written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation
Law:  

RESOLVED that the
issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is
hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and
relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set
forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended,
are hereby fixed as follows:  

2006
ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

1.     Designation
and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue   .   

(a)  The
designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for
herein shall be  2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter
referred to as the  2006 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized
shares constituting the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock is 414,000, based on an
offering price for the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,070.40 per share.  Each
share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per
share.  The number of authorized shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock may be
reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities
Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction
has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares
of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding
number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized
shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company
shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and
may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock.  

(b)  Shares
of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee )
acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor
to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which
the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with
respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of record ownership of
shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor
trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred,
upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder
thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par
value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms
otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4
hereof, and no such transferee      

21   

shall have any of the
voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special
rights ascribed to shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather,
only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares
of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a
conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock
into which such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically
converted as of the date of such transfer.  Shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock
may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates
representing shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect
the foregoing provisions.  In the case of uncertificated 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock, the transfer agent for the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the
foregoing provisions on each 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account.  The
Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of
any uncertificated 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee
acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject
to the foregoing provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this
paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be
converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of
Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as
provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock
issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as
permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and
conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof.  

              2.     Voting
Rights   .  No shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights
except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as
set forth in this Section 2, as follows:  

(a)  Whenever,
at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the
aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares
of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as
a class with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred
Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, either
as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual
meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders. 
At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders
of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity being
entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock
held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such
holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall
automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be
filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of
Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have
been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such
holders of such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class
with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock
ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred
and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue
until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with
respect to such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as
herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each
and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.  

(b)  Upon
any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock
entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all
directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall
terminate immediately.  If the office of any director elected by such holders
voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement,
disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director
elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such
successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such
vacancy occurred.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such
holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in
such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of
directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the
Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this
resolution.  

(c)  So
long as any shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent
of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock and
outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity
with such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to dividends or the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon
which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of
at least two-thirds of all such outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock
and such other series of Preferred      

22   

Stock voting
together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any
special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit,
effect or validate any one or more of the following:  

(i)  the
authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2006
ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   

(ii)  the
amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise,
of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the
resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations designating shares of
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating,
optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions
thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference,
privilege or voting power of the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the
holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of
authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other series of
Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any
series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to
the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of
dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights,
preferences, privileges or voting powers.  

(d)  The
foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when
the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be
effected, all outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been
redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such
redemption.  

3.     Dividends   .  (a)(i) 
Holders of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive,
when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out
of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend
of $107.50 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be
subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3.  

(ii)  The
Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2007 and on each
December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2015, as follows:    

(1)  If
the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock
on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if
November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment
Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than
the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash
dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $112.50 per
share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).    

(2)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the
next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year
listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the
Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend
for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $117.50 per share
(the  Second Adjusted Dividend ).  

(3)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next
preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed
in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price
shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately
following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend.  

5)                     
     Dividend Adjustment
Table    

23   

(4)  As
an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above,
if on November 30, 2009, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock
is $85.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve
month period per share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $112.50, with
the first quarterly payment of such $112.50 dividend to be made on March 1,
2010.  If on November 30, 2010, the Current Market Price of one share of Common
Stock is $125.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following
twelve month period per share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $117.50,
with the first quarterly payment of such $117.50 dividend to be made on March
1, 2011.  If on November 30, 2011, the Current Market Price of one share
of Common Stock is $85.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock would
equal $107.50, with the first quarterly payment of such $107.50 dividend to be
made on March 1, 2012.  

(5)  For
purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second
Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the
term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section
4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in
Section 4(c)(vi).  

(iii)  If
one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table
shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of
shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up,
combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon
shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target
Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each
subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted.  

(iv)  Dividends
payable on shares of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are
equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable
quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year,
commencing June 1, 2006.  Dividends on shares of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock
will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2006
ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of
record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates,
not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates
thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee
thereof.  The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period
shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted
Dividend, whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for
the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall
be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve
30-day months.  

(b)(i)  No
full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock
of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2006
ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been
or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for
the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of
payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid in
full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other
series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to
dividends with 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the
amount of dividends declared per share on 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock and such
other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same
ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other.  Holders of
shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend,
whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative
dividends, as herein provided, on 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock.  No interest, or
sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend
payment or payments on 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears.  

24   

(ii)  So
long as any shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend
(other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants,
or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other
stock ranking junior to 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon
liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3)
shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution
declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company
ranking junior to or on a parity with 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends
or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of
the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock as
to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired
for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking
fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except
by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2006
ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each
case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of
the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods.  

4.     Conversion   .  Shares
of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter
pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that
number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of
each share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion
Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows:  

(a)  Each
share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the
Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted,
without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date
such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable
shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2006
ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.  

(b)  Subject
to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2006
ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of
business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5
or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock
held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of
Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   

(c)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:   

(i)  The
 Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be
deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common
Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day
occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is
defined in Section 6(d) hereof).  

(ii)  A
 Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which
state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are
not required to be open.  

(iii)  (A)  For
purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the
relevant Release Date.  

(B)  For
purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the
date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this
Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock
designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.   

25   

(C)  For
purposes of a conversion of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of
Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d)
hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.   

Each share of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes
of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of
Common Stock into which the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock will be
converted.    

(iv)  The
 Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other
class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for
any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no
sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked
prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New
York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the
Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to
trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of
the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations
System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market
System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the
over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for
the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ,
the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New
York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock
selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such
quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as
determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market
in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee
thereof.  

                                      (v)   Common
Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the
date of this Certificate of Designations or as such stock may be constituted
from time to time.  

(vi)   Trading
Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or
admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national
securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other
national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common Stock is
quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be
made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day.  

                          (d) 
In connection with any conversion of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this
Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be
delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of
the transfer agent for the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices
in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to
time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock by
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, which
notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly
assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly
executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for
the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this
Section 4.  Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a
mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the
number of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated
reserve of the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional
conversion pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares
of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any
conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the
certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock not to
be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes
delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion,
and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably
request.  

(e)  Upon
delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock
of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required
to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, 
the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class
mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at
the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the
number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon
conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates
representing shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of      

26   

which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and
deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in
the preceding sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the
number of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted.  

                          (f)  The
issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares
of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this
Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares
of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of
the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the
delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates
representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B)
the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to
effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and
after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive
the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all
purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no
allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to
holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. 
The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have
accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2006
ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or
after the effective date of conversion of such shares.  

                          (g)  The
Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any
conversion of such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may
make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.  

                          (h)  The
Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and
unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights,
such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable
upon the conversion of all the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock then
outstanding.  

                          (i)  The
Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common
Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock
prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange,
if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such
delivery.  

                          (j)  The
Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer
taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on
conversions of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be
payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares
of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made
unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the
Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of
the Company, that such tax has been paid.  

                          5.     Redemption
At the Option of the Company   .  (a)  The 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the
Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to
all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and
(y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this
Section 5) per share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for
redemption.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in
cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph
(c) of this Section 5.  From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends
on shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to
accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease,
except the right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the
redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the
Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full
cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set
aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, the
Company may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5.  

                          (b)  Unless
otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this
Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock at the
address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2006
ESOP Preferred Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of
telecommunication or by first-class mail      

27   

(postage
prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty
(20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption date.  Each
such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of
shares of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all
the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to
be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the
redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a
combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of certificated 2006
ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are
to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on
the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; and
(vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within
which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of
shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock will be determined.  The Company shall redeem shares so called
for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption
and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the
case of certificated 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be
obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be
redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the
Board of Directors of the Company shall so require and the notice shall so
state).  

                          (c)  The
Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon redemption
of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or
in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock
to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in
paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either
case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock,
whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of
Common Stock to the holder of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock then being
redeemed.  

                          (d)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

                                      (i)   Adjustment
Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding
the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.  

                                      (ii)   Fair
Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of
capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are
publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or
securities for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of
any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date
as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as
determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced
in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the
Board or a committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of
paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined
by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance
with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5)
or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a
redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market
Value of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume
(i) that all dividends on the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid
when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to
Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal
(together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of
the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2006 ESOP Convertible
Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about March 21, 2006 between
the Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto).  

              6.     Consolidation,
Merger, Etc.     (a)  If the Company consummates any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the
outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for
or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or
resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying
employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock
within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable,
for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2006
ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such
consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall
become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in
respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences
and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the
redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6      

28   

hereof),
and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the
following:  

                          (1)  After
such transaction each share of the 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4
hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so
receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior
to such transaction.  

                          (2)  The
Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar
transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as
aforesaid.  

                          (b)  If
the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business
combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by
operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other
stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof,
other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying
employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and
cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares
of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the
Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this
Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger,
consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation
into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same
terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged
for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable
in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock
into which such shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted
immediately prior to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure
of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election
with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such
transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall,
by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of
Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock,
securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of
the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction
if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to
the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon
such transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other
property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing
share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property
receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind
and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares.  

                          (c)  In
the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph
(b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as
soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business
Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and
the material terms thereof to each holder of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock and each
such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to
receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is
consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption
and retirement of such 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued
and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or
(y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the
last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately
preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated.  No such notice of
redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of
business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction,
unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior
notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be
withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of
business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction.  

(d)  In
the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and
shall be continuing, each holder of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the
right to convert shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common
Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until
the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because
the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has
expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company
not later than the close of      

29   

business on the date the
Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the
Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any
notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to
the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.  

For
purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

(i) 
 Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person 
shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the
Exchange Act.  

(ii)  A
 Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company
or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is
defined in Rule 14d 2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or
exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation
of such offer, such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein)
or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more
of the voting power of the Company.  

7.     Liquidation
Rights   .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
Company, the holders of the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available
for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall
be made on the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2006
ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus
a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares
accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution.  

(b)  Neither
the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company,
nor the merger or consolidation of the Company into or with any other
corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or
with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding
up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7.  

(c)  After
the payment to the holders of the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2006
ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the
remaining assets of the Company.  

(d)  In
the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders
of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or
winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be
insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made
on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other
capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2006 ESOP
Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless
proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable
amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled
upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.  

(e)  Subject
to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of
stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation,
dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made
in full to the holders of the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided
in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes
of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock upon
liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any)
applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be
paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall not be entitled to share therein.  

8.     Ranking   .  For
the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes
of the Company shall be deemed to rank:  

(a)  prior
to the shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be
entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon      

30   

dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company,
as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2006
ESOP Preferred Stock;  

(b)  on
a parity with shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or
upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or
redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any,
be different from those of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such
stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable
upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may
be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices,
without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of
such stock and the holders of shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock; and  

(c)  junior
to shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of
2006 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of
amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares
of such series or class or classes.  

9.     Priority
of 2006 ESOP Preferred Stock   .  The shares of 2006 ESOP Preferred
Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 1997 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 1998 ESOP Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock, its 1999 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2000
ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2001 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, its 2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2004 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, and its 2005 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock.    

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

  ___________________________________  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  

  Pursuant to Section 151 of the  

  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware  

  ___________________________________  

2007 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

  (Without Par Value)  

  ___________________________________  

WELLS FARGO  
COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority
conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the
provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as
amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of
Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to
authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the
 ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation
Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by the
resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly
adopted by the Board at a meeting of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000,
and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the ESOP Committee
duly adopted on March 13, 2007, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the
General Corporation Law:  

1.         On
January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board
Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP
Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions,
in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock
( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan
hereinafter referred to:   

RESOLVED
that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed
by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ),
which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to
these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP
Preferred Stock, including any      

31   

shares of Company
common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred
Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers,
preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP
Preferred Stock, to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms
and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its
discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First
Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate.  

RESOLVED
that Richard M. Kovacevich is designated to serve as the sole member of the
First Committee until his successor is duly elected and qualified.  

*  *  *  *  

RESOLVED that any
series of ESOP Preferred Stock authorized for issuance by the First Committee .
.. . shall have the voting rights set forth in Appendix A to these resolutions.   

APPENDIX A - VOTING RIGHTS  

No series of the Preferred Stock, except as
hereinafter set forth in this resolution or as otherwise from time to time
required by law, shall have voting rights.  Whenever, at any time or times,
dividends payable on any shares of a designated series of the Preferred Stock
(such shares of such designated series of Preferred Stock being hereinafter
referred to as the  Shares of such series ) shall be in arrears for such number
of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540
days, the holders of the outstanding Shares of such series shall have the
exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one
or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the Shares of
such series, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have
been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at
the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual
meeting of stockholders.  At elections for such directors, each holder of the
Shares of such series shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the
holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a
parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of
Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such
right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board
shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall
be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding Shares of such series
(together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of
Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have
been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such
holders of such Shares of such series (voting together as a class with the
holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on
such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until
such time as all dividends accumulated on such Shares of such series shall have
been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such Shares of such
series shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject
to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character
above mentioned.  

Upon
any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock
entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors
then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate
immediately.  If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a
class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement,
disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director
elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such
successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such
vacancy occurred.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such
holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in
such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of
directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the
Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this
resolution.  

So
long as any Shares of such series remain outstanding, the consent of the
holders of the outstanding Shares of such series and outstanding shares of all
other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with such Shares of such
series either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred
and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such outstanding
Shares of such series and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together
as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or      

32   

at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose,
shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the
following:  

(a)        the authorization, creation or
issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or
series of stock ranking prior to the Shares of such series with respect to
payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution
or winding up, or   

(b)        the amendment, alteration or
repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions
of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in
a Certificate of Designation for the Shares of such series designating the
Shares of such series and the preferences and relative, participating, optional
and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions
thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference,
privilege or voting power of the Shares of such series or of the holders
thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized
Preferred Stock or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred
Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of
Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Shares
of such series with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to
materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting
powers.  

The
foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when
the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be
effected, all outstanding Shares of such series shall have been redeemed or
sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.  

2.         On
March 13, 2007, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the
ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolutions by
written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation
Law:  

RESOLVED that the
issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is
hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and
relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set
forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended,
are hereby fixed as follows:  

2007 ESOP CUMULATIVE
CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

1.     Designation
and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue   .   

(a) The
designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for
herein shall be  2007 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter
referred to as the  2007 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares
constituting the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock is 484,000, based on an offering
price for the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,070.00 per share.  Each share of
2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share. 
The number of authorized shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by
further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities Committee and by
the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been
so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares of 2007
ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number
of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of
2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be
retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but
unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and may
thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock.  

(b)  Shares
of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee )
acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor
to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which
the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with
respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of record ownership of
shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor
trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred,
upon such transfer and without any further action by the      

33   

Company
or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the
common stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock )
on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of
Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers,
preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed
to shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers
and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a conversion, the
transferee of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all
purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the
date of such transfer.  Shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated
or uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates representing shares
of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing
provisions.  In the case of uncertificated 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, the
transfer agent for the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing
provisions on each 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account.  The Company
may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any
uncertificated 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge
in writing that the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the
foregoing provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this
paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be
converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4
hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by
paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon
such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law
and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions
provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof.  

              2.     Voting
Rights   .  No shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights
except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as
set forth in this Section 2, as follows:  

(a)  Whenever,
at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the
aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares
of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as
a class with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred
Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, either
as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual
meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders. 
At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders
of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity being
entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock
held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such
holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall
automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be
filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred
Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of
Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have
been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such
holders of such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class
with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock
ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred
and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue
until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with
respect to such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as
herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each
and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.  

(b)  Upon
any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock
entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all
directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall
terminate immediately.  If the office of any director elected by such holders
voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement,
disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director
elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such
successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such
vacancy occurred.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such
holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in
such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of
directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the
Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this
resolution.  

(c)  So
long as any shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent
of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock and
outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock      

34   

ranking
on a parity with such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to
dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such outstanding shares of
2007 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock voting
together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any
special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit,
effect or validate any one or more of the following:  

(i)  the
authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2007
ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   

(ii)  the
amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise,
of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the
resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations designating shares of
2007 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating,
optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and
restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right,
preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred
Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the
amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other
series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares
of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or
junior to the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment
of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding
up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights,
preferences, privileges or voting powers.  

(d)  The
foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when
the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be
effected, all outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been
redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such
redemption.  

3.            Dividends   .  (a)(i) 
Holders of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive,
when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out
of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend
of $107.50 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be
subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3.  

(ii)  The
Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2008 and on each December 1 thereafter until
December 1, 2016, as follows:    

(1)  If
the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock
on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if
November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment
Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than
the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash
dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $112.50 per
share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).    

(2)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the
next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year
listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the
Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend
for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $117.50 per share
(the  Second Adjusted Dividend ).  

(3)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next
preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed
in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price
shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately
following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend.  

9)                   
   Dividend Adjustment Table   

35   

(4)  As
an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above,
if on November 30, 2010, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock
is $50, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve
month period per share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $112.50, with
the first quarterly payment of such $112.50 dividend to be made on March 1,
2011.  If on November 30, 2011, the Current Market Price of one share of Common
Stock is $65, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following
twelve month period per share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $117.50,
with the first quarterly payment of such $117.50 dividend to be made on March
1, 2012.  If on November 30, 2012, the Current Market Price of one share
of Common Stock is $45, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock would
equal $107.50, with the first quarterly payment of such $107.50 dividend to be
made on March 1, 2013.  

(5)  For
purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second
Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the
term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section
4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in
Section 4(c)(vi).  

(iii)  If
one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table
shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of
shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up,
combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon
shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target
Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each
subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted.  

(iv)  Dividends
payable on shares of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are
equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable
quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year,
commencing June 1, 2007.  Dividends on shares of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2007
ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of
record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates,
not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates
thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee
thereof.  The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period
shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted
Dividend, whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for
the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period
shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of
twelve 30-day months.  

(b)(i)  No
full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock
of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2007
ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been
or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for
the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the
date of payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid
in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock and any
other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2007
ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred
Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to
dividends with 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the
amount of dividends declared per share on 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock and such
other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same
ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred
Stock      

36   

and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to
each other.  Holders of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in
excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2007 ESOP Preferred
Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in
respect of any dividend payment or payments on 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock which
may be in arrears.  

(ii)  So
long as any shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend
(other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants,
or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other
stock ranking junior to 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon
liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3)
shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution
declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company
ranking junior to or on a parity with 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends
or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of
the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock as
to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired
for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking
fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except
by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2007
ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each
case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of
the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods.  

4.     Conversion   .  Shares
of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter
pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that
number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of
each share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion
Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii)
of this Section 4), as follows:  

(a)  Each
share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the
Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted,
without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date
such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable
shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2007
ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.  

(b)  Subject
to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2007
ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of
business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5
or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of
Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2007 ESOP Preferred
Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   

(c)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:   

(i)  The
 Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be
deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common
Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day
occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is
defined in Section 6(d) hereof).  

(ii)  A
 Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which
state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are
not required to be open.  

(iii)  (A)  For
purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant
Release Date.  

(B)  For
purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the
Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4)
is received by the Company, by the transfer      

37   

agent for
the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.

(C)  For
purposes of a conversion of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of
Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d)
hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.   

Each share of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes
of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of
Common Stock into which the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock will be
converted.    

(iv)  The
 Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other
class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for
any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no
sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked
prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New
York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the
Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to
trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of
the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations
System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market
System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the
over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for
the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ,
the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New
York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock
selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such
quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as
determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market
in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee
thereof.  

                                      (v)   Common
Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the
date of this Certificate of Designations or as such stock may be constituted
from time to time.  

(vi) 
 Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is
listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another
national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or
such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the
Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which
trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any
Business Day.  

                          (d) 
In connection with any conversion of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this
Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be
delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of
the transfer agent for the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices
in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to
time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock by
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, which
notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of
2007 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly
assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly
executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated
2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for
the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this
Section 4.  Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a
mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of
shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of
the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion
hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or
certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so
converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to
be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z)
such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request.  

(e)  Upon
delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required
to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, 
the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class
mail      

38   

(postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to
such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate
or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder
shall be entitled upon conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a
certificate or certificates representing shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to
such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding
sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares
of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted.  

                          (f)  The
issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares
of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this
Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of
shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section
4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of
such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of
(A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates
representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B)
the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to
effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and
after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to
receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all
purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no
allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to
holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. 
The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have
accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2007
ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or
after the effective date of conversion of such shares.  

                          (g)  The
Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2007 ESOP Preferred
Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any
conversion of such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may
make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.  

                          (h)  The
Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and
unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of
2007 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights,
such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable
upon the conversion of all the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock then
outstanding.  

                          (i)  The
Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common
Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange,
if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such
delivery.  

                          (j)  The
Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer
taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on
conversions of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be
payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares
of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made
unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the
Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of
the Company, that such tax has been paid.  

                          5.     Redemption
At the Option of the Company   .  (a)  The 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the
Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2007 ESOP Preferred
Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to
all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and
(y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this
Section 5) per share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for
redemption.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in
cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by
paragraph (c) of this Section 5.  From and after the date fixed for redemption,
dividends on shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will
cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall
cease, except the right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the
redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the
Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full
cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set
aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, the
Company may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5.  

39   

(b)  Unless
otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5
will be sent to the holders of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown
on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2007 ESOP Preferred
Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by
first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may
be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the
redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii)
the total number of shares of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and,
if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number
of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price;
(iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common
Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of
certificated 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates
for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi)
that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such
redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed,
the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in
which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share
of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined.  The Company shall redeem
shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed
for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5,
provided that, in the case of certificated 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, the
Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the
certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed
or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so
require and the notice shall so state).  

                          (c)  The
Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon
redemption of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of
Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such
shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market
Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current
Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater
number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
then being redeemed.  

                          (d)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

                                      (i)   Adjustment
Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding
the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.  

                                      (ii)   Fair
Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of
capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are
publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or
securities for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of
any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2007 ESOP Preferred
Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date
as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as
determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced
in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the
Board or a committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of
paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined
by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance
with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the
2007 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5)
or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a
redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market
Value of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume
(i) that all dividends on the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid
when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to
Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal
(together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of
the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2007 ESOP Convertible
Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about March 20, 2007 between the
Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto).  

              6.     Consolidation,
Merger, etc.     (a)  If the Company consummates any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the
outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for
or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or
resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying
employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a
cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation,
merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become
Preferred Stock of such successor      

40   

or resulting
corporation, having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the
same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special
rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof),
and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the
following:  

                          (1)  After
such transaction each share of the 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4
hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so
receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior
to such transaction.  

                          (2)  The
Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar
transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as
aforesaid.  

                          (b)  If
the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business
combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by
operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other
stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof,
other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying
employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and
cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares
of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the
Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this
Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger,
consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation
into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of
2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same
terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged
for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable
in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock
into which such shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted
immediately prior to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure
of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election
with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such
transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the
2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall,
by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of
Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock,
securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of
the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction
if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to
the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon
such transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other
property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing
share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property
receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind
and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares.  

                          (c)  In
the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph
(b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as
soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business
Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and
the material terms thereof to each holder of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock and each
such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to
receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is
consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption
and retirement of such 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of
2007 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued
and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or
(y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the
last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately
preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated.  No such notice of
redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of
business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction,
unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior
notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be
withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of
business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction.  

(d)  In
the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and
shall be continuing, each holder of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the
right to convert shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common
Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until
the date the Purchase Offer      

41   

is terminated, including
without limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because
the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such
conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the
date the Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ),
unless the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior
notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of
withdrawal given to the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer
Conversion Period.  

For
purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

(i) 
 Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person 
shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the
Exchange Act.  

(ii)  A
 Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company
or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is
defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer
to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer,
such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to
acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting
power of the Company.  

7.     Liquidation
Rights   .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
Company, the holders of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available
for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall
be made on the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2007
ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus
a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares
accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution.  

(b)  Neither
the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company,
nor the merger or consolidation of the Company into or with any other
corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or
with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding
up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7.  

(c)  After
the payment to the holders of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2007
ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the
remaining assets of the Company.  

(d)  In
the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders
of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or
winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be
insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made
on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other
capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2007 ESOP
Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless
proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of
2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable
amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled
upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.  

(e)  Subject
to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of
stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred
Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation,
dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made
in full to the holders of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided
in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes
of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock upon
liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any)
applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be
paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall not be entitled to share therein.  

8.     Ranking   .  For
the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes
of the Company shall be deemed to rank:  

42   

(a)  prior
to the shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be
entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon
dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in
preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock;  

(b)  on
a parity with shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or
redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any,
be different from those of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such
stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable
upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may
be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices,
without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of
such stock and the holders of shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock; and  

(c)  junior
to shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of
2007 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of
amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares
of such series or class or classes.  

9.     Priority
of 2007 ESOP Preferred Stock   .  The shares of 2007 ESOP Preferred
Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 1998 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 1999 ESOP Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock, its 2000 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2001
ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2002 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, its 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2005 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and its 2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock.    

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designations to be
signed by Richard M. Kovacevich, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and
attested by Rachelle M. Graham, its Assistant Secretary, whereby such Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer affirms, under penalties of perjury, that this
Certificate of Designations is the act and deed of the Company and that the
facts stated herein are true, this 13 th  day of March, 2007.  

WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY  

By            /s/
Richard M. Kovacevich                  

  Richard
M. Kovacevich  

  i)                             
  Chairman and   

  ii)                           
  Chief Executive Officer  

Attest:  

/s/ Rachelle M. Graham         

  Rachelle
M. Graham   

  Assistant
Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
March 15, 2007.]  

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

  ___________________________________  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  

  Pursuant to Section 151 of the  

  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware  

43   

___________________________________  

2008 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

  (Without Par Value)  

  ___________________________________  

WELLS FARGO  
COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority
conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the
provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as
amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of
Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to
authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee II of the Board
(the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by
the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were
duly adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25,
2000 and February 27, 2007, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written
consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on March 11, 2008, in accordance
with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:  

1.         On
January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board
Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP
Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions,
in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock
( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan
hereinafter referred to:   

RESOLVED
that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed
by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee II (the  Second Committee ),
which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to
these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP
Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1 2/3 par
value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection
therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other
rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell
such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such
purchase price as the Second Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to
take any and all actions as the Second Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate.  

  *  *  *  *  

RESOLVED that any
series of ESOP Preferred Stock authorized for issuance by the . . . Second
Committee shall have the voting rights set forth in Appendix A to these
resolutions.   

APPENDIX A - VOTING
RIGHTS  

No series of the Preferred Stock, except as
hereinafter set forth in this resolution or as otherwise from time to time
required by law, shall have voting rights.  Whenever, at any time or times,
dividends payable on any shares of a designated series of the Preferred Stock
(such shares of such designated series of Preferred Stock being hereinafter
referred to as the  Shares of such series ) shall be in arrears for such number
of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540
days, the holders of the outstanding Shares of such series shall have the
exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one
or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the Shares of
such series, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have
been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at
the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual
meeting of stockholders.  At elections for such directors, each holder of the
Shares of such series shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the
holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a
parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of
Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such
right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board
shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall
be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding Shares of such series
(together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of
Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have
been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such
holders of such Shares of such series (voting together as a class with the
holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on
such a      

44   

parity and upon which like voting rights have
been conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid
shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such Shares of
such series shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect
to such Shares of such series shall terminate, except as herein or by law
expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every
subsequent default of the character above mentioned.  

Upon
any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock
entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all
directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall
terminate immediately.  If the office of any director elected by such holders
voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement,
disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director
elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such
successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such
vacancy occurred.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such
holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in
such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of
directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the
Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this
resolution.  

So
long as any Shares of such series remain outstanding, the consent of the
holders of the outstanding Shares of such series and outstanding shares of all
other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with such Shares of such
series either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred
and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such outstanding
Shares of such series and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together
as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or
annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or
validate any one or more of the following:  

(a)        the authorization, creation or
issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or
series of stock ranking prior to the Shares of such series with respect to
payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution
or winding up, or   

(b)        the amendment, alteration or
repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions
of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in
a Certificate of Designation for the Shares of such series designating the
Shares of such series and the preferences and relative, participating, optional
and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions
thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference,
privilege or voting power of the Shares of such series or of the holders
thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized
Preferred Stock or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred
Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of
Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Shares
of such series with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of
assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to
materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting
powers.  

The
foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when
the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be
effected, all outstanding Shares of such series shall have been redeemed or
sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.  

2.         Pursuant
to resolutions adopted on February 27, 2007, the Board designated John G.
Stumpf as the sole member of the ESOP Committee, effective April 25, 2007.  

3.         On March 11, 2008, pursuant to authority
conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP
Committee adopted the following resolutions by written consent in accordance
with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:  

RESOLVED that the
issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is
hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and
relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set
forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended,
are hereby fixed as follows:  

45   

2008
ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

1.     Designation
and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue   .   

(a) The
designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for
herein shall be  2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter
referred to as the  2008 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized
shares constituting the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock is 520,500, based on an
offering price for the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,058.00 per share.  Each
share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per
share.  The number of authorized shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock may be
reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities
Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction
has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares
of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding
number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized
shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the
2008 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company
shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and
may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock.  

(b)  Shares
of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee )
acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor
to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which
the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with
respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of record ownership of
shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor
trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred,
upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder
thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par
value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms
otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4
hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers,
preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed
to shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers
and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a conversion, the transferee
of the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as
the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such
transfer.  Shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or
uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates representing shares of
2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing
provisions.  In the case of uncertificated 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, the
transfer agent for the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing
provisions on each 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account.  The Company
may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated
2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing that
the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing
provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of
Section 1, shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into
shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and
(B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b)
of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion
may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be
redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5
and 6(c) hereof.  

              2.     Voting
Rights   .  No shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights
except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as
set forth in this Section 2, as follows:  

(a)  Whenever,
at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall
be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate
contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class
with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock
ranking on a parity with the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to
dividends or on the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual
meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders. 
At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders
of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity being
entitled to such number of      

46   

votes, if any, for each
share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of
such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the
Board shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created
shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other
series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting
rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right
of such holders of such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as
a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred
Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been
conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall
continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right
with respect to such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate,
except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the
event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.  

(b)  Upon
any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock
entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all
directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall
terminate immediately.  If the office of any director elected by such holders
voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement,
disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director
elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such
successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such
vacancy occurred.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such
holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in
such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of
directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the
Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this
resolution.  

(c)  So
long as any shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent
of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock and
outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity
with such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to dividends or the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon
which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of
at least two-thirds of all such outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock
and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in
person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting
called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any
one or more of the following:  

(i)  the
authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   

(ii)  the
amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise,
of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the
resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations designating shares of
2008 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating,
optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and
restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right,
preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the
amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other
series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares
of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or
junior to the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment
of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding
up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights,
preferences, privileges or voting powers.  

(d)  The
foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when
the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be
effected, all outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been
redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such
redemption.  

3.            Dividends   .  (a)(i) 
Holders of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive,
when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out
of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend
of $105.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be
subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3.  

47   

(ii)  The
Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2009 and on each December 1 thereafter until
December 1, 2017, as follows:    

(1)  If
the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock
on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if
November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment
Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than
the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash
dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $110.00 per
share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).    

(2)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the
next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year
listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the
Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend
for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $115.00 per share
(the  Second Adjusted Dividend ).  

(3)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next
preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed
in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price
shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately
following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend.  

  13)               

14)               
   Dividend Adjustment Table   

(4)  As
an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above,
if on November 30, 2011, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock
is $50.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve
month period per share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $110.00, with
the first quarterly payment of such $110.00 dividend to be made on March 1,
2012.  If on November 30, 2012, the Current Market Price of one share of Common
Stock is $60.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following
twelve month period per share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $115.00,
with the first quarterly payment of such $115.00 dividend to be made on March
1, 2013.  If on November 30, 2013, the Current Market Price of one share
of Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock would
equal $105.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $105.00 dividend to be
made on March 1, 2014.  

(5)  For
purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second
Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the
term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section
4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in
Section 4(c)(vi).  

(iii)  If
one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table
shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of
shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up,
combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon
shall be declared with a record      

48   

date within such period,
then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table
for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and
proportionately adjusted.  

(iv)  Dividends
payable on shares of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are
equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable
quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year,
commencing June 1, 2008.  Dividends on shares of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock
will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of
record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates,
not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates
thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee
thereof.  The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period
shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted Dividend,
whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial
dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be
calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve
30-day months.  

(b)(i)  No
full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock
of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or
contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for
the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the
date of payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid
in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock and any
other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to
dividends with 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the
amount of dividends declared per share on 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock and such
other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same
ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other.  Holders of
shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend,
whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative
dividends, as herein provided, on 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock.  No interest, or
sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend
payment or payments on 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears.  

(ii)  So
long as any shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend
(other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants,
or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other
stock ranking junior to 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon
liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3)
shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution
declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company
ranking junior to or on a parity with 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends
or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of
the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock as
to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired
for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking
fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except
by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each
case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of
the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods.  

4.     Conversion   .  Shares
of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter
pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that
number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of
each share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion
Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii)
of this Section 4), as follows:  

(a)  Each
share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the
Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted,
without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date
such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable
shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.  

(b)  Subject
to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of
business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares      

49   

pursuant
to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and
nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price
for 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   

(c)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:   

(i)  The
 Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be
deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common
Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day
occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is
defined in Section 6(d) hereof).  

(ii)  A
 Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which
state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are
not required to be open.  

(iii)  (A)  For
purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant
Release Date.  

(B)  For
purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the
Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4)
is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock
designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.   

(C)  For
purposes of a conversion of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of
Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d)
hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.   

Each share of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes
of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of
Common Stock into which the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock will be
converted.    

(iv)  The
 Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other
class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for
any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no
sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked
prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New
York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the
Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to
trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of
the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations
System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market
System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the
over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for
the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ,
the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New
York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock
selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such
quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as
determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market
in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee
thereof.  

                                      (v)   Common
Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the
date of this Certificate of Designations or as such stock may be constituted
from time to time.  

(vi) 
 Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is
listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another
national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such
other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common
Stock is      

50   

quoted on the National Market System of
NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z)
otherwise, any Business Day.  

                          (d) 
In connection with any conversion of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this
Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be
delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of
the transfer agent for the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices
in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to
time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock by
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, which
notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of
2008 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned
or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly executed stock
powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares
of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4.  Each
Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the
Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph
(b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock being
converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name
or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common
Stock and, in the case of certificated 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any
shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y)
the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new
certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information
as the Company or its agents may reasonably request.  

(e)  Upon
delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock
of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required
to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, 
the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class
mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at
the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the
number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon
conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates
representing shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be
converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s
designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate
or certificates representing the number of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock
which shall not have been converted.  

                          (f)  The
issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares
of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this
Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of
shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section
4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of
such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of
(A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates
representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B)
the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to
effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and
after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to
receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all
purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no
allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to
holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. 
The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have
accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or
after the effective date of conversion of such shares.  

                          (g)  The
Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any
conversion of such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may
make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.  

                          (h)  The
Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and
unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of
2008 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights,
such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable
upon the conversion of all the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock then
outstanding.  

51   

(i)  The Company
will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock
required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock prior
to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if
any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery.  

                          (j)  The
Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer
taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on
conversions of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be
payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares
of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made
unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the
Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of
the Company, that such tax has been paid.  

                          5.     Redemption
At the Option of the Company   .  (a)  The 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the
Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to
all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and
(y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this
Section 5) per share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption. 
Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in cash or shares
of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of
this Section 5.  From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on
shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue
and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the
right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the redemption price,
such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be
retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full cumulative
dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for
payment, on all outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company
may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock pursuant to this Section 5.  

                          (b)  Unless
otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5
will be sent to the holders of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown
on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by
first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may
be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the
redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii)
the total number of shares of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and,
if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number
of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price;
(iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common
Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of
certificated 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates
for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi)
that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such
redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed,
the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in
which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share
of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined.  The Company shall redeem
shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed
for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5,
provided that, in the case of certificated 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, the
Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the
certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed
or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so
require and the notice shall so state).  

                          (c)  The
Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon
redemption of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of
Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such
shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market
Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current
Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the
greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock then being redeemed.  

                          (d)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

                                      (i)   Adjustment
Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding
the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.  

52   

(ii)   Fair
Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of
capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are
publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or
securities for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of
any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date
as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as determined
by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the
valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or
a committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock
for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c)
of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an
independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with
the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as
of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a
redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market
Value of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume
(i) that all dividends on the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid
when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to
Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal
(together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of
the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2008 ESOP Convertible
Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about March 13, 2008 between the
Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto).  

              6.     Consolidation,
Merger, etc.     (a)  If the Company consummates any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the
outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for
or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or
resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying
employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock
within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable,
for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such
consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall
become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in
respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences
and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the
redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications,
limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock had
immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following:  

                          (1)  After
such transaction each share of the 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4
hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so
receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior
to such transaction.  

                          (2)  The
Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar
transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as
aforesaid.  

                          (b)  If
the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business
combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by
operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other
stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof,
other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying
employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and
cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares
of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company
or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this Section 6), be
automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar
transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of
Common Stock into which such shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock could have
been converted at such time so that each share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the
holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate
amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind)
receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior
to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure of such
transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with
respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such
transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the
2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall,
by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of
Common Stock, be converted into or      

53   

exchanged for the
aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind)
receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior
to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any
rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other
property receivable upon such transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock,
securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the
same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock,
securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each
non-electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a
plurality of the non-electing shares.  

                          (c)  In
the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph
(b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as
soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business
Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and
the material terms thereof to each holder of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock and each
such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to
receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is
consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption
and retirement of such 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of
2008 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued
and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or
(y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the
last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately
preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated.  No such notice of
redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of
business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction,
unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior
notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be
withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of
business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction.  

(d)  In
the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and
shall be continuing, each holder of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the
right to convert shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common
Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until
the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because
the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has
expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company
not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates (the
 Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor of the
Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given
may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the end
of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.  

For
purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

(i) 
 Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person 
shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the
Exchange Act.  

(ii)  A
 Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company
or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is
defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer
to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer,
such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to
acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting
power of the Company.  

7.     Liquidation
Rights   .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
Company, the holders of the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available
for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall
be made on the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus
a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares
accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution.  

(b)  Neither
the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company,
nor the merger or consolidation of the Company into or with any other
corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or
with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding
up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7.  

54   

(c)  After
the payment to the holders of the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2008
ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the
remaining assets of the Company.  

(d)  In
the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders
of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or
winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be
insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made
on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other
capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2008 ESOP
Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless
proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of
2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable
amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled
upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.  

(e)  Subject
to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of
stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation,
dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made
in full to the holders of the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in
this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of
stock ranking junior to the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock upon
liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any)
applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be
paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall not be entitled to share therein.  

8.     Ranking   .  For
the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes
of the Company shall be deemed to rank:  

(a)  prior
to the shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be
entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon
dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in
preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock;  

(b)  on
a parity with shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or
upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or
redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any,
be different from those of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such
stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable
upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may
be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices,
without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of
such stock and the holders of shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock; and  

(c)  junior
to shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of
2008 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of
amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares
of such series or class or classes.  

9.     Priority
of 2008 ESOP Preferred Stock   .  The shares of 2008 ESOP Preferred
Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 1999 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2000 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, its 2001 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2002 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock, its 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2005
ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2006 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock and its 2007 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock.    

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designations to be
signed by John G. Stumpf, its President and Chief Executive Officer, and
attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, whereby such President
and Chief Executive Officer affirms, under penalties of perjury, that this
Certificate of Designations is the act and deed of the Company and that the
facts stated herein are true, this 12th day of March, 2008.  

55   

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

By    /s/
John G. Stumpf                                       

  John
G. Stumpf  

  i)                             
  President and   

  ii)                           
  Chief Executive Officer  

Attest:  

/s/
Jeannine E. Zahn                                            

  Jeannine
E. Zahn  

  Assistant
Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
March 12, 2008.]  

WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY    

CERTIFICATE
OF DESIGNATIONS    

   Pursuant
to Section 151(g) of the 
General Corporation Law 
of the State of Delaware    

DIVIDEND
EQUALIZATION PREFERRED SHARES  
(Without Par Value)    

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), HEREBY
CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of
the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorizes
the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par
value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the
Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ),
the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the
written consent of the Committee duly adopted on November 20, 2008, in
accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:   

  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the
Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors
dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of
Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and
that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and
other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional
or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof,
of the shares of such series, are as follows:   

  18)               
  1.            Designation.    

                          (a)        The shares of such
series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Dividend Equalization Preferred
Shares ( DEPs ), and the number of shares constituting such series shall be
97,000.  

56   

(b)        DEPs
redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation or any of its
subsidiaries (other than in a bona fide fiduciary capacity) shall be cancelled
and may not be reissued.  DEPs may be issued in fractional shares which are
whole number multiples of one one-millionth of a share, which fractional shares
shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder s fractional share, to
all rights of a holder of a whole share of DEPs.  

                          (c)        DEPs shall, with
respect to distributions upon the liquidation, winding-up and dissolution of
the Corporation, rank (x) senior to the Common Stock for the Liquidation
Preference stated and defined in Section 3(a) below and (y) junior to each
class or series of preferred stock issued in exchange for preferred stock of
Wachovia Corporation established by the board of directors of Wachovia
Corporation after September 1, 2001 and each class or series of preferred stock
established by the Board of Directors after the date hereof.  

  19)               
               2.            Dividends. 
   DEPs shall not entitle the holders thereof to any dividends, whether
payable in cash, property, stock or otherwise.  

  20)               
               3.            Liquidation.    

                          (a)        In the event of any
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation,
whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of full and fractional DEPs shall
be entitled, before any distribution or payment is made on any date to the
holders of the Common Stock or any other stock of the Corporation ranking
junior to the DEPs upon liquidation, to be paid in full an amount per whole
share of DEPs equal to $10.00 (the  Liquidation Preference ), together with
accrued dividends to such distribution or payment date, whether or not earned
or declared.  If such payment shall have been made in full to all holders of
DEPs, the holders of DEPs as such shall have no right or claim to any of the
remaining assets of the Corporation.    

                          (b)        In the event the
assets of the Corporation available for distribution to the holders of DEPs
upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether
voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to
which such holders are entitled pursuant to Section 3(a), no such distribution
shall be made on account of any shares of any other class or series of
Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the DEPs upon such liquidation,
dissolution or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be
paid on account of the DEPs, ratably in proportion to the full distributable
amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled
upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up.    

                          (c)        Upon the
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of DEPs
then outstanding shall be entitled to be paid out of assets of the Corporation
available for distribution to its shareholders all amounts to which such
holders are entitled pursuant to the first paragraph of this Section 3 before
any payment shall be made to the holders of Common Stock or any other stock of
the Corporation ranking junior upon liquidation to the DEPs.    

                          (d)        For the purposes of
this Section 3, the consolidation or merger of, or binding statutory share
exchange by, the Corporation with any other corporation shall not be deemed to
constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.    

  21)               
  4.            Redemption,
Conversion, Exchange.   

                          (a)        The DEPs shall not
be convertible or exchangeable.  Other than as described in the next sentence,
the DEPs shall not be redeemable.  The DEPs shall be redeemable by the
Corporation, at the Corporation s option and in its sole discretion, for an
amount in cash equal to the Liquidation Preference per share of DEPs, after
December 31, 2021.  

                          (b)        In case of
redemption of less than all of the DEPs at the time outstanding, the shares to
be redeemed shall be selected pro rata or by lot as determined by the
Corporation in its sole discretion, provided that the Corporation may redeem
all shares held by holders of fewer than 0.100 DEPs (or by holders that would
hold fewer than 0.100 DEPs following such redemption) prior to its redemption
of other DEPs.    

                          (c)        Notice of any
redemption shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation no less than 30 nor
more than 60 days prior to the date specified for redemption in such notice
(the  Redemption Date ), by first class mail, postage prepaid, to all holders
of record of the DEPs at their last addresses as they appear on the books of
the      

57   

Corporation; provided, however, that no failure to
give such notice or any defect therein or in the mailing thereof shall affect
the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any DEPs except as to the
holder to whom the Corporation has failed to give notice or except as to the
holder to whom notice was defective.  In addition to any information required
by applicable law or regulation or the rules of any exchange upon which the
DEPs may be listed or admitted to trading, such notice shall state
(1) that such redemption is being made pursuant to the redemption provisions
of this Section 5, (2) the Redemption Date, (3) the redemption price,
(4) the total number of DEPs to be redeemed and, if less than all shares
held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be
redeemed, and (5) the place or places where certificates for such shares
are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price, including any
procedures applicable to redemption to be accomplished through book-entry
transfers.  Upon the mailing of any such notice of redemption, the Corporation
shall become obligated to redeem, on the Redemption Date, all shares called for
redemption.    

  22)               
  5.            Voting Rights   . 
Except as otherwise required by applicable law or regulation or the rules of a
securities exchange upon which the DEPs may be listed or quoted, holders of the
DEPs shall have no voting rights.  

   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    has caused this Certificate of Designations to be
signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer,
and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this     30 th      day of
December, 2008.   

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

By:                      /s/ Barbara S. Brett                        
            Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President  
            and Assistant Treasurer   

               /s/
Laurel A. Holschuh                 
Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
December 30, 2008.]  

   WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY    

CERTIFICATE
OF DESIGNATIONS    

   Pursuant
to Section 151(g) of the 
General Corporation Law 
of the State of Delaware    

CLASS A
PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES G  
(Without Par Value)    

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), HEREBY
CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of
the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorizes
the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par
value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the
Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation
Law ), the      

58   

following resolutions were duly adopted by
the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on
November 20, 2008, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation
Law:   

  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the
Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors
dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of
Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and
that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and
other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional
or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof,
of the shares of such series, are as follows:   

  1.            Designation   .  The shares of such
series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Class A Preferred Stock, Series
G, with no par value and with a liquidation preference of $15,000.00 per share
(hereinafter referred to as the  Series G Preferred Stock ), and the number of
shares constituting such series shall be 50,000, which number may be increased
or decreased (but not below the number of shares then outstanding) from time to
time by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.  The Series G Preferred
Stock shall rank prior to the common stock of the Corporation, $1-2/3 par value
per share (the  Common Stock ), and on a parity with each series of the
Corporation s Parity Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation as
expressly provided for herein.  

  2.            Defined Terms   .  As used in this
Certificate of Designations, the following terms have the meanings specified
below:  

   Affiliate 
of any specified Person shall mean (i) any other Person which, directly or
indirectly, is in Control of, is controlled by or is under common Control with
such specified Person, or (ii) any other Person who is a director or
executive officer (A) of such specified Person, (B) of any subsidiary of such
specified Person, or (C) of any Person described in clause (i) above.  

   Business
Day  means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks
located in the City of New York, New York or Charlotte, North Carolina
generally are authorized or required by law or regulation to close.  

   Common
Stock  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.  

   Conditional
Exchange  shall mean the exchange of one Depositary Share for each share of
WPFC Series A Preferred Securities following the occurrence of a Supervisory
Event.  

   Control 
means the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the
management and policies of any Person whether by contract or otherwise; and the
terms  controlling  and  controlled  have meanings correlative to the
foregoing.  

   Corporation 
means Wells Fargo   Company, a Delaware corporation, together with its
successors and assigns.  

   Depositary
Company  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c).  

   Depositary
Share  means a depositary share representing a one-six hundredth interest in
one share of Series G Preferred Stock.  

   Dividend
Payment  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).  

   Dividend
Payment Date  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).  

   Dividend
Period  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).  

   Dividend
Record Date  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).  

59   

Federal Reserve Board  means the United States Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  

   Initial
Dividend Period  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).  

   Junior
Stock  means the Common Stock and all other classes and series of securities of
the Corporation that rank below the Series G Preferred Stock as to dividend
rights and rights upon liquidation, winding up, or dissolution.  

   OCC  means
the United States Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  

   Parity
Stock  means any outstanding class or series of Preferred Stock of the
Corporation ranking, in accordance to its terms, as to dividends and upon
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of affairs of
the Corporation on parity with the Series G Preferred Stock.  

   Person 
means an individual, corporation, partnership, estate, trust (or portion thereof),
association, private foundation, joint stock company or other entity or any
government or agency or political subdivision thereof and also includes a group
as that term is used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

   Preferred
Stock  means the Corporation s preferred stock, no par value, of which
20,000,000 shares are authorized as of the date hereof.  

   Redemption
Date  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c).  

   Redemption
Price  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).  

   Regulatory
Capital Event  means a determination by the Corporation, based on the receipt
by the Corporation of an opinion or letter of counsel, rendered by a law firm
experienced in such matters, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Corporation, which states that there is a significant risk that the Series G
Preferred Stock will no longer constitute Tier 1 capital of the Corporation for
purposes of the capital adequacy regulations or guidelines or policies of the
Federal Reserve Board, or its successor, as the Corporation s primary Federal
banking regulator, as a result of (i) any amendment to, clarification of, or
change in applicable laws or related regulations, guidelines, policies or
official interpretations thereof, or (ii) any official administrative
pronouncement or judicial decision interpreting or applying such laws or
related regulations, guidelines, policies or official interpretations thereof.  

   Series G
Preferred Stock  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.  

   Supervisory
Event  means the occurrence of one of the following:  (i) Wachovia Bank
becomes  undercapitalized  under the OCC s prompt corrective action
regulations, (ii) Wachovia Bank is placed into conservatorship or receivership,
or (iii) the OCC, in its sole discretion, anticipates Wachovia Bank becoming
 undercapitalized  in the near term or takes supervisory action that limits the
payment of dividends by WPFC and in connection therewith the OCC directs an
exchange of the WPFC Series A Preferred Securities for the Series G Preferred
Stock.  

   Wachovia
Bank  means Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking
association, or its successors and assigns.  

   WPFC  means
Wachovia Preferred Funding Corp., a Delaware corporation.  

   WPFC Series
A Preferred Securities  means the 7.25% Non-cumulative Series A Preferred
Securities, par value $0.01, liquidation preference $25.00 per share, of WPFC.  

  3.            Dividends   .  (a)  The dividend rate
for the Series G Preferred Stock shall be 7.25% per share per annum of the
initial liquidation preference of $15,000.00 per share, accruing from the
effective date of the Conditional Exchange to and including the last day of
March, the last day of June, the last day of September or the last day of
December,      

60   

whichever occurs first, after issuance of
the Series G Preferred Stock following the Conditional Exchange (such period
being the  Initial Dividend Period ) and then for each quarterly period
thereafter, commencing on April 1, July 1, October 1 or January 1, as the case
may be, of each year and ending on and including the day next preceding the
first day of the next such quarterly period (each such period, including the
Initial Dividend Period, being a  Dividend Period ), payable to holders of
record of the Series G Preferred Stock on the respective record dates fixed for
such purpose by the Board of Directors in advance of payment of such dividend,
which shall be the 15th calendar day of the last calendar month of the
applicable Dividend Period (each such date, a  Dividend Record Date ).  If such
Dividend Record Date is not a Business Day, then the Dividend Record Date for
the applicable Dividend Period shall be the first Business Day immediately
following the 15th calendar day of the last calendar month of the applicable Dividend
Period, except if such Business Day falls in the calendar month following the
last calendar month of the applicable Dividend Period, the Dividend Record Date
shall be the last Business Date immediately preceding the 15th calendar day of
the last calendar month of the applicable Dividend Period.  Until no longer
outstanding, the holders of the Series G Preferred Stock shall be entitled to
receive such cash dividends, and the Corporation shall be bound to pay the
same, but only as, if and when declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds
legally available for the payment thereof (each such payment, a  Dividend
Payment ), on March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year
(each a  Dividend Payment Date ) for the respective Dividend Period ending on
such date;    provided   ,    however   , that the Dividend Payment for the
Initial Dividend Period shall include any unpaid dividends accrued from the
payment date of the last dividend paid prior to such date on the WPFC Series A
Preferred Securities.  If a Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, the
Dividend Payment due on such Dividend Payment Date shall be paid on the first
Business Day immediately following such Dividend Payment Date, except if such
Business Day falls in a different calendar year than such Dividend Payment
Date, such Dividend Payment shall be paid on the last Business Date immediately
preceding such Dividend Payment Date.  The amount of dividends payable for the
Initial Dividend Period or any period shorter than a full Dividend Period shall
be computed on the basis of a 360-day year having 30-day months and the actual
number of days elapsed in the period.  

  (b)           Dividends
shall be non-cumulative   .  If the Board of Directors fails to or chooses not
to declare a dividend on the Series G Preferred Stock for a Dividend Period,
then holders of the Series G Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive a
dividend for that Dividend Period, and the Corporation shall have no obligation
to pay a dividend for that Dividend Period, whether or not dividends are
declared and paid for any future Dividend Period, with respect to either the
Series G Preferred Stock, other series of preferred stock of the Corporation,
or the Common Stock.  

  (c)        Holders
of Series G Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether
payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends for each
Dividend Period, as herein provided, on the Series G Preferred Stock.  No
interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of
any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments or failure to make any Dividend
Payment or Dividend Payments.  

  (d)        Unless
full dividend payments on the Series G Preferred Stock have been declared and
paid or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment has been set apart for
payment for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, no dividends shall be
declared or paid or set aside for payment and no other distribution shall be
declared or made or set aside for payment upon any shares of Junior Stock, nor
shall shares of Junior Stock be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for
any consideration, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a
sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation,
except by conversion into or exchange for other Junior Stock.  

  4.            Liquidation Preference   .  (a)  The
amount payable on the Series G Preferred Stock in the event of any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of affairs of the
Corporation shall be $15,000.00 per share, plus authorized, declared but unpaid
dividends up to the date of such liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of
affairs of the Corporation, and no more before any distribution shall be made
to the holders of any shares of Junior Stock.  The holders of Series G Preferred
Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of affairs of
the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 4(a).  

  (b)        If
the amounts available for distribution in respect of the Series G Preferred
Stock and any Parity Stock are not sufficient to satisfy the full liquidation
rights of all of the outstanding Series G Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock,
then the holders of the Series G Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall
share ratably in any such distribution of assets in proportion to the full
respective liquidation preference to which they are entitled.  

61   

(c)        The sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer
(for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or
substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be
deemed a dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, nor shall
the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the
Corporation into or with any other corporation or Person or the merger,
consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other
corporation or Person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a
dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation.  

  5.            Redemption   .  (a)  The Series G
Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable by the Corporation prior to December
31, 2022, except upon the occurrence of a Regulatory Capital Event.  

  (b)        Prior
to December 31, 2022, upon the occurrence of a Regulatory Capital Event and
with the prior approval of the OCC, the Corporation, at the option of the Board
of Directors, may redeem the outstanding Series G Preferred Stock, in whole,
but not in part, at a price equal to $15,000.00 per share of Series G Preferred
Stock, plus authorized, declared but unpaid dividends to the Redemption Date,
without interest, on shares redeemed (collectively, the  Redemption Price )
from funds legally available for such purpose.  On or after December 31, 2022,
the Corporation may redeem the Series G Preferred Stock for cash, with the
prior approval of the OCC, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to
time for the Redemption Price from funds legally available for such purpose. 
In the event the Corporation redeems fewer than all the outstanding
Series A Preferred Securities, the shares to be redeemed shall be
determined by lot,    pro rata   , or by such other method as the Board of
Directors in its sole discretion determines.  

  (c)        Not
more than 60 days and not less than 30 days prior to the date established for
such redemption by the Board of Directors (the  Redemption Date ), notice of
the proposed redemption shall be mailed to the holders of record of the Series
G Preferred Stock to be redeemed, such notice to be addressed to each such
stockholder at his last known address shown on the records of the Corporation,
and the time of mailing such notice shall be deemed to be the time of the
giving thereof.  On or after the Redemption Date, the Series G Preferred Stock
called for redemption shall automatically, and without further action on the
part of the holder thereof, be deemed to have been redeemed and the former
holder thereof shall thereupon only be entitled to receive payment of the
Redemption Price.  If such notice of redemption shall have been given as
aforesaid, and if on or before the Redemption Date the funds necessary for the
redemption shall have been set aside so as to be available therefore, then the
dividends thereon shall cease to accrue after the Redemption Date and all
rights with respect to the Series G Preferred Stock so called for redemption
shall forthwith after such Redemption Date cease, except the right of the
holders to receive the Redemption Price, without interest.  If such notice of
redemption of all or any part of the Series G Preferred Stock shall have been
mailed as aforesaid and the Corporation shall thereafter deposit money for the
payment of the Redemption Price pursuant thereto with any bank or trust company
(the  Depositary Company ), including any Affiliate of the Corporation,
selected by the Board of Directors for that purpose, to be applied to such
redemption, then from and after the making of such deposit, such Series G
Preferred Stock shall not be deemed to be outstanding for any purpose, and the
rights of the holders thereof shall be limited to the rights to receive payment
of the Redemption Price, without interest but including any declared,
authorized, but unpaid, dividends to the Redemption Date, from the Depositary
Company, if applicable, upon endorsement, if required, and surrender of the
certificates therefore.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from
time to time, from the Depositary Company, the interest, if any, allowed on
such moneys deposited with it, and the holders of any Series G Preferred Stock
so redeemed shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any moneys so deposited
and remaining unclaimed at the end of three years from the Redemption Date
shall, if thereafter requested by resolution of the Board of Directors, be
repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the
Corporation, such holders of record of the Series G Preferred Stock so redeemed
which shall not have made claim against such moneys prior to such repayment to the
Corporation shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an
amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of
the Series G Preferred Stock and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no
event be entitled to any interest.  

  (d)        Subject
to the provisions herein, the Board of Directors shall have authority to
prescribe from time to time the manner in which the Series G Preferred Stock
shall be redeemed.  

  (e)        Nothing
contained herein shall limit any legal right of the Corporation to purchase any
shares of the Series G Preferred Stock.  

62   

6.            Conversion   . 
The holders of the Series G Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to
convert such Series G Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital
stock of the Corporation.  

  7.            Rank   .  Notwithstanding anything set
forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or this
Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors, without
the vote of the holders of the Series G Preferred Stock, may authorize and
issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class or series of
stock ranking senior to Series G Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of affairs of
the Corporation.  

  8.            Repurchase   .  Subject to the
limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series G
Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such
terms as the Board of Directors may determine;    provided   ,    however   ,
that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when
there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such
purchase would be, rendered insolvent.  

  9.            Voting Rights   .  The holders of
Series G Preferred Stock will have no voting rights except as expressly
provided by applicable law.  

  10.          Unissued or Reacquired Shares   . 
Shares of Series G Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and
converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall
be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock
without designation as to series.  

  11.          No Sinking Fund   .  Shares of Series G
Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.  

   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO  
COMPANY    has caused this Certificate
of Designations to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and
Assistant Treasurer, and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this     30 th 
    day of December, 2008.   

  WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY  

By:                      /s/ Barbara S. Brett                                   
            Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President  
            and Assistant Treasurer   

               /s/ Laurel A. Holschuh     
Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
December 30, 2008.]  

63   

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    

CERTIFICATE
OF DESIGNATIONS    

   Pursuant
to Section 151(g) of the 
General Corporation Law 
of the State of Delaware    

CLASS A
PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES H 
(Without Par Value)    

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), HEREBY
CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of
the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorizes
the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par
value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the
Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation
Law ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to
the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on November 20, 2008, in
accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:   

  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the
Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors
dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of
Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and
that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and
other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional
or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof,
of the shares of such series, are as follows:   

   Designation   . 
The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Class A Preferred
Stock, Series H, with no par value and with a liquidation preference of
$20,000.00 per share (hereinafter referred to as the  Series H Preferred
Stock ), and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 50,000,
which number may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares
then outstanding) from time to time by the Board of Directors of the
Corporation.  The Series H Preferred Stock shall rank prior to the common
stock of the Corporation, $1-2/3 par value per share (the  Common Stock ), and
on a parity with each series of the Corporation s Parity Stock with respect to
the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs
of the Corporation as expressly provided for herein.  

   Defined Terms   .  As used in this Certificate of
Designations, the following terms have the meanings specified below:  

   Affiliate 
of any specified Person shall mean (i) any other Person which, directly or
indirectly, is in Control of, is controlled by or is under common Control with
such specified Person, or (ii) any other Person who is a director or
executive officer (A) of such specified Person, (B) of any subsidiary of
such specified Person, or (C) of any Person described in clause
(i) above.  

    Applicable
Rate  means, with respect to distributions on each Dividend Period, (i) a
rate per annum equal to Three-Month LIBOR plus 1.83%, or (ii) upon the
occurrence of an initial Fixed Rate Event and thereafter, a fixed rate equal to
the Assigned Fixed Rate.  

   Assigned
Fixed Rate  means the fixed rate equal to the Applicable Rate on the date of
the occurrence of the initial Fixed Rate Event.  

64   

Business Day  means any day other than a Saturday, a
Sunday or a day on which banks located in the City of New York, New York or
Charlotte, North Carolina generally are authorized or required by law or
regulation to close.  

   Common
Stock  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.  

   Conditional
Exchange  shall mean the exchange of one Depositary Share for each share of
WPFC Series B Preferred Securities following the occurrence of a
Supervisory Event.  

   Control 
means the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the
management and policies of any Person whether by contract or otherwise; and the
terms  controlling  and  controlled  have meanings correlative to the
foregoing.  

   Corporation 
means Wells Fargo   Company, a Delaware corporation, together with its
successors and assigns.  

   Depositary
Company  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c).  

   Depositary
Share  means a depositary share representing a one-eight hundredth interest in
one share of Series H Preferred Stock.  

   Dividend
Payment  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).  

   Dividend
Payment Date  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).  

   Dividend
Period  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).  

   Dividend
Record Date  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).  

   Federal
Reserve Board  means the United States Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System.  

   Fixed Rate
Event  means any Transfer with respect to all or a portion of the WPFC
Series B Preferred Securities, subsequent to the initial issuance of the
WPFC Series B Preferred Securities, through an initial public offering,
private placement or otherwise, to any Person who is not an Affiliate of the
Corporation.  

   Initial
Dividend Period  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).  

   Junior
Stock  means the Common Stock and all other classes and series of securities of
the Corporation that rank below the Series H Preferred Stock as to
dividend rights and rights upon liquidation, winding up, or dissolution.  

   LIBOR
Business Day  means any day on which commercial banks and foreign exchange
markets settle payments and are open for general business (including dealings
in foreign exchange and foreign currency deposits) in London and New York.  

   LIBOR
Determination Date  means, as to each Dividend Period, commencing with the
Initial Dividend Period, the date that is two LIBOR Business Days prior to the
first day of such Dividend Period.  

   OCC  means
the United States Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  

   Parity
Stock  means any outstanding class or series of Preferred Stock of the
Corporation ranking, in accordance to its terms, as to dividends and upon
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of affairs of
the Corporation on parity with the Series H Preferred Stock.  

   Person 
means an individual, corporation, partnership, estate, trust (or portion
thereof), association, private foundation, joint stock company or other entity
or any government or agency or political subdivision thereof and also      

65   

includes a group as that term is used for purposes of
Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

   Preferred
Stock  means the Corporation s preferred stock, no par value, of which
20,000,000 shares are authorized as of the date hereof.  

   Redemption
Date  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(c).  

   Redemption
Price  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(a).  

   Regulatory
Capital Event  means a determination by the Corporation, based on the receipt
by the Corporation of an opinion or letter of counsel, rendered by a law firm
experienced in such matters, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Corporation, which states that there is a significant risk that the
Series H Preferred Stock will no longer constitute Tier 1 capital of the
Corporation for purposes of the capital adequacy regulations or guidelines or
policies of the Federal Reserve Board, or its successor, as the Corporation s
primary Federal banking regulator, as a result of (i) any amendment to,
clarification of, or change in applicable laws or related regulations,
guidelines, policies or official interpretations thereof, or (ii) any
official administrative pronouncement or   judicial
decision interpreting or applying such laws or related regulations, guidelines,
policies or official interpretations thereof.  

   Series H
Preferred Stock  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.  

   Supervisory
Event  means the occurrence of one of the following:  (i) Wachovia Bank
becomes  undercapitalized  under the OCC s prompt corrective action
regulations, (ii) Wachovia Bank is placed into conservatorship or
receivership, or (iii) the OCC, in its sole discretion, anticipates
Wachovia Bank becoming  undercapitalized  in the near term or takes supervisory
action that limits the payment of dividends by WPFC and in connection therewith
the OCC directs an exchange of the WPFC Series B Preferred Securities for
the Series H Preferred Stock.  

   Three-Month
LIBOR  means, with respect to any LIBOR Determination Date, a rate determined
on the basis of the offered rates for three-month U.S. dollar deposits of not
less than a principal amount equal to that which is representative for a single
transaction in such market at such time, commencing on the second LIBOR
Business Day immediately following such LIBOR Determination Date, which appears
on US LIBOR Telerate Page 3750 as of approximately 11:00 a.m., London
time, on such LIBOR Determination Date.  

  If on any
LIBOR Determination Date no rate appears on US LIBOR Telerate Page 3750 as of
approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, the Corporation shall on such LIBOR
Determination Date require four major reference banks in the London interbank
market selected by the Corporation to provide the Corporation with a quotation
of the rate at which three-month deposits in U.S. dollars, commencing on the
second LIBOR Business Day immediately following such LIBOR Determination Date,
are offered by them to prime banks in the London interbank market as of
approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such LIBOR Determination Date
and in a principal amount equal to that which is representative for a single
transaction in such market at such time.  If at least two such quotations are
provided, Three-Month LIBOR for such LIBOR Determination Date will be the
arithmetic mean of such quotations as calculated by the Corporation.  If fewer
than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR for such LIBOR
Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted as of
approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such LIBOR Determination Date by
three major banks in the London inter-bank market selected by the Corporation
for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, having a three-month
maturity commencing on the second LIBOR Business Day immediately following such
LIBOR Determination Date and in a principal amount equal to that which is
representative for a single transaction in such market at such time; provided,
however, that, if the banks selected as aforesaid by the Corporation are not
quoting as mentioned in this sentence, Three-Month LIBOR for such LIBOR
Determination Date will be the Three-Month LIBOR determined with respect to the
immediately preceding Dividend Period.  

   Transfer 
means any sale, transfer, gift, assignment, devise or other disposition of the
WPFC Series B Preferred Securities, including, but not limited to,
(i) the granting of any option or entering into any agreement for the
sale, transfer or other disposition of such securities, or (ii) the sale,
transfer, assignment or other disposition of any      

66   

securities
or rights convertible into or exchangeable for WPFC Series B Preferred
Securities, whether voluntary or involuntary, whether of record or beneficially
and whether by operation of law or otherwise.  

   Wachovia
Bank  means Wachovia Bank, National Association, a national banking
association, or its successors and assigns.  

   WPFC  means
Wachovia Preferred Funding Corp., a Delaware corporation.  

   WPFC
Series B Preferred Securities  means the Floating Rate Non-cumulative
Series B Preferred Securities, par value $0.01, liquidation preference
$25.00 per share, of WPFC.  

   Dividends   . 
(a) The dividend rate for the Series H Preferred Stock shall be the
Applicable Rate per share per annum of the initial liquidation preference of
$20,000.00 per share, accruing from the effective date of the Conditional
Exchange to and including the last day of March, the last day of June, the last
day of September or the last day of December, whichever occurs first, after
issuance of the Series H Preferred Stock following the Conditional
Exchange (such period being the  Initial Dividend Period ) and then for each
quarterly period thereafter, commencing on April 1, July 1, October 1
or January 1, as the case may be, of each year and ending on and including
the day next preceding the first day of the next such quarterly period (each
such period, including the Initial Dividend Period, being a  Dividend Period ),
payable to holders of record of the Series H Preferred Stock on the
respective record dates fixed for such purpose by the Board of Directors in
advance of payment of such dividend, which shall be the 15th calendar day of
the last calendar month of the applicable Dividend Period (each such date, a
 Dividend Record Date ).  If such Dividend Record Date is not a Business Day,
then the Dividend Record Date for the applicable Dividend Period shall be the
first Business Day immediately following the 15th calendar day of the last
calendar month of the applicable Dividend Period, except if such Business Day
falls in the calendar month following the last calendar month of the applicable
Dividend Period, the Dividend Record Date shall be the last Business Date
immediately preceding the 15th calendar day of the last calendar month of the
applicable Dividend Period.  Until no longer outstanding, the holders of the
Series H Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive such cash dividends,
and the Corporation shall be bound to pay the same, but only as, if and when
declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available for the
payment thereof (each such payment, a  Dividend Payment ), on March 31,
June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year (each a
 Dividend Payment Date ) for the respective Dividend Period ending on such
date; provided, however, that the Dividend Payment for the Initial Dividend
Period shall include any unpaid dividends accrued from the payment date of the last
dividend paid prior to such date on the WPFC Series B Preferred
Securities.  If a Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, the Dividend
Payment due on such Dividend Payment Date shall be paid on the first Business
Day immediately following   such Dividend Payment Date,
except if such Business Day falls in a different calendar year than such
Dividend Payment Date, such Dividend Payment shall be paid on the last Business
Date immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date.  The amount of dividends
payable for the Initial Dividend Period or any period shorter than a full
Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year having 30-day
months and the actual number of days elapsed in the period.  

  (b)  Dividends
shall be non-cumulative.  If the Board of Directors fails to or chooses not to
declare a dividend on the Series H Preferred Stock for a Dividend Period,
then holders of the Series H Preferred Stock shall have no right to
receive a dividend for that Dividend Period, and the Corporation shall have no
obligation to pay a dividend for that Dividend Period, whether or not dividends
are declared and paid for any future Dividend Period, with respect to either
the Series H Preferred Stock, other series of preferred stock of the
Corporation, or the Common Stock.  

  (c)  Holders
of Series H Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends,
whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends for
each Dividend Period, as herein provided, on the Series H Preferred
Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in
respect of any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments or failure to make any
Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments.  

  (d)  Unless
full dividend payments on the Series H Preferred Stock have been declared
and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for such payment has been set apart
for payment for the immediately preceding Dividend Period, no dividends shall
be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no other distribution shall be
declared or made or set aside for payment upon any shares of Junior Stock, nor
shall shares of Junior Stock be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for
any consideration, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a
sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation,
except by conversion into or exchange for other Junior Stock.  

67   

Liquidation Preference   .  (a) The amount payable on the Series H
Preferred Stock in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution, or winding-up of affairs of the Corporation shall be $20,000.00
per share, plus authorized, declared but unpaid dividends up to the date of
such liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of affairs of the Corporation, and
no more before any distribution shall be made to the holders of any shares of
Junior Stock.  The holders of Series H Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of affairs of the Corporation
other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 4(a).  

  (b)  If the
amounts available for distribution in respect of the Series H Preferred
Stock and any Parity Stock are not sufficient to satisfy the full liquidation
rights of all of the outstanding Series H Preferred Stock and any Parity
Stock, then the holders of the Series H Preferred Stock and any Parity
Stock shall share ratably in any such distribution of assets in proportion to
the full respective liquidation preference to which they are entitled.  

  (c)  The
sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities
or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets
of the Corporation shall not be deemed a dissolution, liquidation or winding up
of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business
combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation
or Person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination
transaction of any other corporation or Person into or with the Corporation be
deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation.  

   Redemption   . 
(a) The Series H Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable by the
Corporation prior to the fifth anniversary of the initial issuance of the WPFC
Series B Preferred Securities, except upon the occurrence of a Regulatory
Capital Event.  On or after the fifth anniversary of the initial issuance of
the WPFC Series B Preferred Securities, the Corporation may, with the
prior approval of the OCC, redeem the Series H Preferred Stock for cash,
in whole or in part, at a price equal to $20,000.00 per share of Series H
Preferred Stock, plus authorized, declared, but unpaid dividends to the
Redemption Date, without interest, on shares redeemed (collectively, the
 Redemption Price ) from funds legally available for such purpose.  

  (b)  On or
after the fifth anniversary of the initial issuance of the WPFC Series B
Preferred Securities, the Corporation, at the option of the Board of Directors,
may at any time redeem fewer than all the outstanding Series H Preferred
Stock.  In that event, the shares to be redeemed shall be determined by lot,
pro rata, or by such other method as the Board of Directors in its sole
discretion determines to be equitable.  

  (c)  Prior
to the fifth anniversary of the initial issuance of the WPFC Series B
Preferred Securities, but only upon or after the occurrence of a Regulatory
Capital Event, the Corporation, at the option of the Board of Directors, may
redeem the outstanding Series H Preferred Stock, in whole, but not in
part, for the Redemption Price from funds legally available for such purpose.  

  (d)  Not
more than 60 days and not less than 30 days prior to the date
established for such redemption by the Board of Directors (the  Redemption
Date ), notice of the proposed redemption shall be mailed to the holders of
record of the Series H Preferred Stock to be redeemed, such notice to be
addressed to each such stockholder at his last known address shown on the
records of the Corporation, and the time of mailing such notice shall be deemed
to be the time of the giving thereof.  On or after the Redemption Date, the
Series H Preferred Stock called for redemption shall automatically, and
without further action on the part of the holder thereof, be deemed to have
been redeemed and the former holder thereof shall thereupon only be entitled to
receive payment of the Redemption Price.  If such notice of redemption shall
have been given as aforesaid, and if on or before the Redemption Date the funds
necessary for the redemption shall have been set aside so as to be available
therefore, then the dividends thereon shall cease to accrue after the
Redemption Date and all rights with respect to the Series H Preferred
Stock so called for redemption shall forthwith after such Redemption   Date cease, except the right of the holders to receive the
Redemption Price, without interest.  If such notice of redemption of all or any
part of the Series H Preferred Stock shall have been mailed as aforesaid and
the Corporation shall thereafter deposit money for the payment of the
Redemption Price pursuant thereto with any bank or trust company (the
 Depositary Company ), including any Affiliate of the Corporation, selected by
the Board of Directors for that purpose, to be applied to such redemption, then
from and after the making of such deposit, such Series H Preferred Stock
shall not be deemed to be outstanding for any purpose, and the rights of the
holders thereof shall be limited to the rights to receive payment of the
Redemption Price, without interest but including any declared, authorized, but
unpaid, dividends to the Redemption Date, from the Depositary Company, if      

68   

applicable, upon endorsement, if required, and surrender
of the certificates therefore.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive,
from time to time, from the Depositary Company, the interest, if any, allowed
on such moneys deposited with it, and the holders of any Series H
Preferred Stock so redeemed shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any
moneys so deposited and remaining unclaimed at the end of three years from the
Redemption Date shall, if thereafter requested by resolution of the Board of
Directors, be repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to
the Corporation, such holders of record of the Series H Preferred Stock so
redeemed which shall not have made claim against such moneys prior to such
repayment to the Corporation shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the
Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above
for the redemption of the Series H Preferred Stock and so repaid to the
Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.  

  (e)    Subject to the provisions herein, the Board of Directors
shall have authority to prescribe from time to time the manner in which the
Series H Preferred Stock shall be redeemed.  

  (f)  Nothing
contained herein shall limit any legal right of the Corporation to purchase any
shares of the Series H Preferred  
Stock.  

   Conversion   . 
The holders of the Series H Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to
convert such Series H Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of
capital stock of the Corporation.  

   Rank   . 
Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation
of the Corporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the
Board of Directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series H
Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock,
Parity Stock or any class or series of stock ranking senior to Series H
Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding-up of affairs of the Corporation.  

   Repurchase   . 
Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and
sell Series H Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such
manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors may determine; provided,
however, that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such
purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is,
or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.  

   Voting Rights   . 
The holders of Series H Preferred Stock will have no voting rights except
as expressly provided by applicable law.  

   Unissued or Reacquired Shares   .  Shares of Series H Preferred Stock not issued
or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or
acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but
unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series.  

   No Sinking Fund   .  Shares of Series H Preferred Stock
are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.  

   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    has caused this Certificate of Designations to be
signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer,
and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this     30 th      day of
December, 2008.   

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

By:                      /s/ Barbara S. Brett                              
    
            Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President  
            and Assistant Treasurer   

               /s/ Laurel A. Holschuh                 
Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary  

69   

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
December 30, 2008.]  

   WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY    

CERTIFICATE
OF DESIGNATIONS    

   Pursuant
to Section 151(g) of the 
General Corporation Law 
of the State of Delaware    

CLASS A
PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES I  
(Without Par Value)    

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), HEREBY
CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of
the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorizes
the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par
value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the
Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation
Law ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to
the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on November 20, 2008, in
accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:   

  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the
Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors
dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of
Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and
that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and
other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional
or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof,
of the shares of such series, are as follows:   

  Section 1.            Designation   .  The shares of
such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Class A Preferred Stock,
Series I, with no par value and a liquidation preference of $100,000 per share
(hereinafter referred to as the  Series I Preferred Stock ).  Each share of
Series I Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share
of Series I Preferred Stock.  Series I Preferred Stock will rank equally with
Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the
payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs
of the Corporation.  

  Section 2.            Number of Shares   .  The
number of shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall be 25,010.  Such number may
from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of
authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of
shares of Series I Preferred Stock then outstanding) by the board of
directors.  Shares of Series I Preferred Stock that are redeemed, purchased or
otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall be cancelled and shall revert to
authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock undesignated as to series. 
The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series I
Preferred Stock.  

  Section 3.            Definitions   .  As used herein
with respect to Series I Preferred Stock:  

   Business Day  means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions in Charlotte, North Carolina
or New York, New York are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or
executive order to close.  

   Depositary Company  shall have the meaning set forth
in Section 6(d).  

   Dividend Payment Date  shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 4(a).  

70   

Dividend Period  shall
have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  

   DTC  means The Depositary Trust Company, together
with its successors and assigns.  

   Junior Stock  means the Corporation s common stock
and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized
over which Series I Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment
of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution
or winding up of the Corporation.  

   London Banking Day  means any day on which commercial
banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S.
dollars) in London.  

   Parity Stock  means any other class or series of
stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par with Series I Preferred Stock in
the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  

   Series I Preferred Stock  shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 1.  

   Telerate Page 3750  means the display page so
designated on the Moneyline/Telerate Service (or such other page as may replace
that page on that service, or such other service as may be nominated as the
information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to
London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits).  

   Three-Month LIBOR  means, with respect to any
Dividend Period, the rate (expressed as a percentage    per annum    ) for
deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day
of that Dividend Period that appears on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m.
(London time) on the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that
Dividend Period.  If such rate does not appear on Telerate Page 3750,
Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which
deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day
of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000
are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks
in the London interbank market selected by the Corporation, at approximately
11:00 a.m., London time on the second London Banking Day preceding the first
day of that Dividend Period.  Wachovia Bank, National Association, as
calculation agent for the Preferred Stock, will request the principal London
office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate.  If at least
two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that
Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the
nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations.  If fewer than two quotations are
provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the
arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of
the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the
calculation agent, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the
first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European
banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend
Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000.  However, if the
banks selected by the calculation agent to provide quotations are not quoting
as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same
as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the
case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been
determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had Series I
Preferred Stock been outstanding.  The calculation agent s establishment of
Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend
Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be
made available to any holder of Series I Preferred Stock upon request and will
be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.  

  Section 4.            Dividends   .   

  (a)           Rate   . 
Holders of Series I Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and
if declared by the board of directors, but only out of funds legally available
therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of
$100,000 per share of Series I Preferred Stock, and no more, payable:  (1) if
the Series I Preferred Stock is issued prior to March 15, 2011, semi-annually
in arrears on each March 15 and September 15 through March 15, 2011 and (2)
from and including the later of March 15, 2011 and the date of issuance,
quarterly in arrears on each March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15. 
If any date prior to March 15, 2011 specified pursuant to the preceding
sentence is not a Business Day, then dividends will be payable on the first
Business Day following such date, without accrual to the actual payment date;
if any date on or after March 15, 2011 specified pursuant the preceding
sentence is not a Business Day, then dividends will be payable on the      

71   

first Business Day following such date and dividends
shall accrue to the actual payment date.  The term  Dividend Payment Date 
means each of the following dates occurring after the date of issuance of the
Series I Preferred Stock:  (i) each March 15 and September 15 through September
15, 2010 and (ii) each March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15, or if
any such day in the case of this clause (ii) is not a Business Day, the next
Business Day.  The term  Dividend Period  means each period from and including
a Dividend Payment Date (or the date of issuance of the Series I Preferred
Stock for the first Dividend Payment Date) to but excluding the next Dividend
Payment Date.  For any Dividend Period ending prior to the Dividend Payment
Date in March 2011 dividends will accrue at a rate per annum equal to 5.80%,
and for any Dividend Period ending after the Dividend Payment Date in March
2011, dividends will accrue at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (x)
Three-Month LIBOR for the related Dividend Period plus 0.93% and (y) 5.56975%. 
The amount of dividends payable for any Dividend Period (1) ending prior to the
Dividend Payment Date in March 2011 shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day
year consisting of twelve 30-day months and (2) beginning on or after the
Dividend Payment Date in March 2011 shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day
year and the actual number of days elapsed.  

  (b)           Non-Cumulative
Dividends   .  Dividends on shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall be
non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of
Series I Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and
paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid
dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the
Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series I
Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for the
Dividend Period ending immediately prior to such Dividend Payment Date after
such Dividend Payment Date or to pay interest with respect to such dividends,
whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with
respect to Series I Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other
class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation.  Holders of
Series I Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether
payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends for each
Dividend Period on the Series I Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money
in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any Dividend Payment or
Dividend Payments or failure to make any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments.  

  (c)           Priority
of Dividends   .  So long as any share of Series I Preferred Stock remains
outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment
and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any
Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no
shares of Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for
consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a
result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the
exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share
of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a
substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall
any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption
of any such securities by the Corporation, and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock
shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the
Corporation otherwise than pursuant to    pro rata    offers to purchase all,
or a    pro rata    portion, of the Series I Preferred Stock and such Parity
Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, unless full
dividends on all outstanding shares of Series I Preferred Stock for the
then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and set aside for
payment.  The foregoing shall not restrict the ability of the Corporation, or
any affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions
in the Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of business.  When
dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series I Preferred Stock and
any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series I Preferred
Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that
the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same
ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on
Series I Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations on
Parity Stock, bear to each other.  No interest will be payable in respect of
any dividend payment on such offered stock that may be in arrears.  If the
board of directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a
Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the
holders of the Series I Preferred Stock prior to such date.  Subject to the
foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or
otherwise) as may be determined by the board of directors may be declared and
paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available
therefor, and the shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to
participate in any such dividend.  

  Section 5.            Liquidation Rights   .   

72   

(a)           Liquidation   .  In the event of any
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs
of the Corporation, holders of Series I Preferred Stock shall be entitled,
before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be
made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the
rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or
on parity with Series I Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the
Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidation
preference in an amount equal to $100,000 per share, plus an amount equal to
all accrued and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the
date of liquidation.  The holder of Series I Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.  

  (b)           Partial
Payment   .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in
full the liquidation preference to all holders of Series I Preferred Stock and
the liquidation preferences of any Parity Stock to all holders of such Parity
Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series I Preferred Stock and to the
holders of all Parity Stock shall be    pro rata    in accordance with the
respective aggregate liquidation preferences of Series I Preferred Stock and
all such Parity Stock.  

  (c)           Residual
Distributions   .  If the liquidation preference has been paid in full to all
holders of Series I Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the
holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of
the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.  

  (d)           Merger,
Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation   .  For purposes of this
Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of
stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the
property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business
combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation
or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination
transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be
deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up
of the affairs of the Corporation.  

  Section 6.            Redemption   .   

  (a)           Optional
Redemption   .  So long as full dividends for all outstanding shares of Series
I Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid or
declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside, the
Corporation, at the option of the board of directors, may redeem in whole or in
part the shares of Series I Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any
time on or after the later of March 15, 2011 and the date of original issuance
of the Series I Preferred Stock, upon notice given as provided in Subsection
(b) below, at the redemption price in effect at the redemption date as provided
in this Section 6.  The redemption price for shares of Series I Preferred Stock
shall be $100,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid
plus accrued and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the
redemption date.  

  (b)           Notice
of Redemption   .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series I
Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed
to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last
addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at
least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if the Series I Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form
through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by
DTC.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively
presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such
notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such
notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series I Preferred
Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the
proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series I Preferred
Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of
shares of Series I Preferred Stock to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price;
(iv) the place or places where the Series I Preferred Stock are to be redeemed;
and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the
redemption date.  

  (c)           Partial
Redemption   .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series
I Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series I Preferred
Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either    pro        

73   

rata   
from the holders of record of Series I Preferred Stock in proportion to the
number of Series I Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such
other manner as the board of directors may determine to be fair and equitable. 
Subject to the provisions hereof, the board of directors shall have full power
and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series
I Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.  

  (d)           Effectiveness
of Redemption   .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or
before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the
redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its
other funds, in trust for the    pro rata    benefit of the holders of the
shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available
therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected
by the board of directors (the  Depositary Company ) in trust for the    pro
rata    benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then,
notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has
not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all
shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends
with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date,
and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption
date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to
receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company
at any time after the redemption date the funds so deposited, without
interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time,
from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders
of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. 
Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the
redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to
the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the
holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be
unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount
deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to
the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.  

  Section 7.            Voting Rights   .  The holders
of Series I Preferred Stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled
to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law.  

  Section 8.            Conversion   .  The holders of
Series I Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series I
Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the
Corporation.  

  Section 9.            Rank   .  Notwithstanding
anything set forth in the Restated Certificate  of Incorporation of the
Corporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the board of
directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series I Preferred Stock, may
authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any
class of securities ranking senior to the Series I Preferred Stock as to
dividends and upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  

  Section 10.          Repurchase   .  Subject to the
limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series I
Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such
terms as the board of directors may determine; provided, however, that the
Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are
reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase
would be, rendered insolvent.  

  Section 11.          Unissued or Reacquired Shares   . 
Shares of Series I Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and
converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall
be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock
without designation as to series.  

  Section 12.          No Sinking Fund   .  Shares of
Series I Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.  

   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    has caused this Certificate of Designations to be
signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer,
and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this     30 th      day of
December, 2008.   

  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

By:                      /s/ Barbara S. Brett                                   

74   

Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President  
            and Assistant Treasurer   

               /s/
Laurel A. Holschuh                 
Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
December 30, 2008.]  

   WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY    

CERTIFICATE
OF DESIGNATIONS    

   Pursuant
to Section 151(g) of the 
General Corporation Law 
of the State of Delaware    

8.00%
NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES J  
(Without Par Value)    

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), HEREBY
CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of
the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorizes
the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par
value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the
Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ),
the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the
written consent of the Committee duly adopted on November 20, 2008, in
accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:   

  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the
Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors
dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of
Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and
that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and
other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional
or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof,
of the shares of such series, are as follows:   

  Section 1.            Designation   .  The shares of
such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated 8.00% Non-Cumulative
Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series J, with no par value and a
liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (hereinafter referred to as the     Series
J Preferred Stock    ).  Each share of Series J Preferred Stock shall be
identical in all respects to every other share of Series J Preferred Stock. 
Series J Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will
rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  

  Section 2.            Number of Shares   .  The
number of shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be 2,300,000.  Such number
may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of
authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of
shares of Series J Preferred Stock then outstanding) by the board of
directors.  Shares of Series J Preferred Stock that are redeemed, purchased or
otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall be cancelled and shall revert to
authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock undesignated as to series. 
The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series J
Preferred Stock.  

  Section 3.            Definitions   .  As used herein
with respect to Series J Preferred Stock:  

75   

Business
Day     means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which
banking institutions in Charlotte, North Carolina or New York, New York are not
authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.  

      Depositary Company     shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 6(d).  

      Dividend Payment Date     shall have
the meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  

      Dividend Period     shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 4(a).  

      DTC     means The Depositary Trust
Company, together with its successors and assigns.  

      Junior Stock     means the
Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the
Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series J Preferred Stock has
preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of
assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  

      Parity Stock     means any other
class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par with Series J Preferred
Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or
non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary
or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.  

      Series J Preferred Stock     shall
have the meaning set forth in Section 1.  

      Voting Parity Stock     means any
Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series J Preferred Stock.  

  Section 4.            Dividends.    

  (a)           Rate   .  Holders of Series J Preferred
Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the board of
directors, but only out of funds legally available therefor, non-cumulative
cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share of Series J
Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each
March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15.  If any
date specified pursuant the preceding sentence is not a Business Day, then
dividends will be payable on the first Business Day following such date and dividends
shall accrue to the actual payment date.  The term     Dividend Payment Date    
means March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15, or
if any such day in the case of this clause is not a Business Day, the next
Business Day.  The term     Dividend Period     means each period from and
including a Dividend Payment Date (or the date of issuance of the Series J
Preferred Stock for the first Dividend Payment Date) to but excluding the next
Dividend Payment Date;    provided    that the first Dividend Period shall be
deemed to have commenced on December 15, 2008.  Dividends will accrue at a rate
per annum equal to 8.00%.  The amount of dividends payable for any Dividend
Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve
30-day months.  

  (b)           Non-Cumulative Dividends   .  Dividends
on shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent
that any dividends payable on the shares of Series J Preferred Stock on any
Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such
Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall
cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to
pay, and the holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall have no right to
receive, dividends accrued for the Dividend Period ending immediately prior to
such Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Payment Date, whether or not
dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to
Series J Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or
series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation.  Holders of Series J
Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in
cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends for each Dividend Period
on the Series J Preferred Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of
interest, shall be payable in respect of any Dividend Payment or Dividend
Payments or failure to make any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments.  

  (c)           Priority of Dividends   . 
So long as any share of Series J Preferred Stock remains outstanding, unless
full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series J Preferred Stock for the
then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and set aside
for payment, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for
payment and no      

76   

distribution shall be declared or made
or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable
solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be purchased,
redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly
or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for
or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior
Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use
of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of
Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking
fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, and
(iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise
acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other
than as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into Parity Stock
or Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for
or into another share of Parity Stock or for or into Junior Stock, and other
than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of
other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to
or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities
by the Corporation, otherwise than pursuant to    pro rata    offers to
purchase all, or a    pro rata    portion, of the Series J Preferred Stock and
such Parity Stock.  The foregoing shall not restrict the ability of the
Corporation, or any affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any
market-making transactions in the Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary
course of business.  When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of
Series J Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon
shares of Series J Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a
proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear
to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current
Dividend Period per share on Series J Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends,
including any accumulations, on Parity Stock, bear to each other.  No interest
will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on such Parity Stock that
may be in arrears.  If the board of directors determines not to pay any
dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will
provide written notice to the holders of the Series J Preferred Stock prior to
such date.  Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends
(payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the board of
directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of
any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series J Preferred
Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.  

  Section 5.            Liquidation Rights.   

  (a)           Liquidation   .  In the event of any
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs
of the Corporation, holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall be entitled,
before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be
made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the
rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or
on parity with Series J Preferred Stock upon   liquidation
and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive
in full a liquidation preference in an amount equal to $1,000 per share, plus
an amount equal to all declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current
Dividend Period to the date of liquidation.  The holder of Series J Preferred
Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs
of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this
Section 5.  

  (b)           Partial Payment   .  If the assets of
the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference to
all holders of Series J Preferred Stock and the liquidation preferences of any
Parity Stock to all holders of such Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the
holders of Series J Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock
shall be    pro rata    in accordance with the respective aggregate
liquidation preferences of Series J Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.  

  (c)           Residual Distributions   .  If the
liquidation preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series J
Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior
Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation
according to their respective rights and preferences.  

  (d)           Merger, Consolidation and
Sale of Assets Not Liquidation   .  For purposes of this Section 5, the
sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities
or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets
of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution,
liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the
merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the
Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger,
consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other
corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary
or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.  

77   

Section 6.            Redemption.    

  (a)           Optional Redemption   .  So long as
full dividends for all outstanding shares of Series J Preferred Stock for the
then-current Dividend Period have been paid or declared and a sum sufficient
for the payment thereof set aside, and subject to applicable regulatory
approvals, the Corporation, at the option of the board of directors, may redeem
in whole or in part the shares of Series J Preferred Stock at the time
outstanding, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after December 15, 2017
upon notice given as provided in Subsection (b) below, at the redemption
price in effect at the redemption date as provided in this Section 6.  The
redemption price for shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be $1,000 per share
plus declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period,
without interest.  

  (b)           Notice of Redemption   .  Notice of
every redemption of shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first
class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares
to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the
Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days
before the date fixed for redemption.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series
J Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may
give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.  Any notice mailed as provided
in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such
notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any
holder of shares of Series J Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other
shares of Series J Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the
redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series J Preferred Stock to
be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; and (iv) the place or places
where the Series J Preferred Stock are to be redeemed.  

  (c)           Partial Redemption   .  In case of any
redemption of only part of the shares of Series J Preferred Stock at the time
outstanding, the shares of Series J Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be
selected either    pro rata    from the holders of record of Series J
Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series J Preferred Stock held by
such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the board of directors may
determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions hereof, the
board of directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms
and conditions upon which shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be redeemed
from time to time.  

  (d)           Effectiveness of Redemption   .  If
notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption
date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been
set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust
for the    pro rata    benefit of the holders of the shares called for
redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by
the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the board of directors
(the     Depositary Company    ) in trust for the    pro rata    benefit of
the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any
certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for
cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for
redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such
shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with
respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and
terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount
payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after
the redemption date the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation
shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company
any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for
redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited
and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the
extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the
event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares
so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the
Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above
for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall
in no event be entitled to any interest.  

  Section 7.            Voting Rights   .  The holders
of Series J Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set
forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by applicable law.  

  (a)           Right To Elect Two Directors Upon
Nonpayment Events   .  If and whenever the dividends on the Series J Preferred
Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and
paid in an aggregate amount equal to full dividends for at least six Dividend
Periods or their equivalent (whether or not consecutive) (a     Nonpayment
Event    ), the number of directors then constituting the board of directors
shall automatically be increased   by two and the
holders of Series J Preferred Stock, voting together as a single and separate
class with the holders of any outstanding shares of Voting Parity Stock, shall
be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the     Preferred Stock       

78   

Directors    ) by a plurality of the votes cast,   
provided    that it shall be a qualification for election for any such
Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director shall not cause the
Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York
Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading facility on
which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed
or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors, and   
provided further    that the board of directors shall at no time include more
than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation,
all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are
entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  

  In the event that the holders of Series J Preferred
Stock and such other holders of Voting Parity Stock shall be entitled to vote
for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment Event,
such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event at
the Corporation s next annual meeting of shareholders, and, except as provided
below, at each subsequent annual meeting of shareholders of the Corporation.  

  When dividends have been paid in full on the Series J
Preferred Stock and any and all Voting Parity Stock for at least four
consecutive Dividend Periods or their equivalent after a Nonpayment Event, then
the right of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred
Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting
rights in the case of any future Nonpayment Event), and, if and when all rights
of holders of Series J Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to elect the
Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the
Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors
constituting the board of directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.  

  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any
time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of
Series J Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting
rights described above (voting together as a single and separate class).  In
case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor
shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series J
Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described
above, voting together as a single and separate class.  The Preferred Stock
Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that
shall come before the board of directors for a vote.  

  (b)           Other Voting Rights   .  So long as any
shares of Series J Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other
vote or consent of shareholders required by law or by the certificate of
incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the
shares of Series J Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote
thereon, voting separately as a single class with all other series of preferred
stock ranking equally with the Series J Preferred Stock and entitled to vote
thereon, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by
vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or
validating any of the following actions, whether or not such approval is
required by Delaware law:  

  (i)                  Issuance of Senior
Stock   .  The issuance of any class or series of preferred stock of the
Corporation ranking senior to the Series J Preferred Stock with respect to
either the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of
any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
affairs of the Corporation;  

  (ii)                 Amendment Affecting
Series J Preferred Stock   .  Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any
provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws so as to adversely
affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series J
Preferred Stock;  

  (iii)    Authorization of Senior Stock   . 
Any amendment or alteration of any provision of the certificate of
incorporation or bylaws to authorize, create or increase the authorized amount
of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or
series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series J
Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or the
distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation; or  

  (iv)                Share Exchanges,
Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations   .  Any consummation of a
binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series J Preferred
Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another
corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series
J Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or
consolidation with respect to which the      

79   

Corporation is
not the surviving or resulting corporation, are converted into or exchanged for
preference securities of the surviving or resulting corporation or a
corporation controlling such corporation, and (y) such Series J Preferred
Stock shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case
may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a
whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the
rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series J Preferred
Stock, taken as a whole;  

   provided   ,    
however   , that any amendment of the certificate of incorporation to
authorize or create or to increase the authorized amount of any Junior Stock or
any class or series or any securities convertible into shares of any class or
series of Parity Stock or Junior Stock will not be deemed to adversely affect
the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series J Preferred
Stock, and the Series J Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon.  

  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange,
reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(b)
would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting preferred stock
(including the Series J Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and
entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a single
class (in lieu of all other series of preferred stock).  

  (c)           Changes for Clarification   .  Without
the consent of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock, so long as such action
does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting
powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series J Preferred
Stock, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the
Series J Preferred Stock:  

  (i)               to cure any ambiguity,
or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate
of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or  

  (ii)              to make any provision
with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series J
Preferred Stock that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Certificate of Designations.  

  (d)           Changes after Provision for Redemption   . 
No vote or consent of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall be required
pursuant to this Section 7 if, at or prior to the time when any such vote
or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all
outstanding shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or
shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds
shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to
Section 6.  

  (e)           Procedures for Voting and
Consents   .  The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting
of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the
fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of
proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other
aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be
governed by any rules the board of directors, in its discretion, may adopt from
time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of
the certificate of incorporation, the bylaws, applicable law and any national
securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series J Preferred
Stock is listed or traded at the time.  Whether the vote or consent of the
holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series J
Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Stock has been cast or given on any
matter on which the holders of shares of Series J Preferred Stock are entitled
to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified
liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.  

  For purposes of determining the voting rights of the
holders of Series J Preferred Stock under this Section 7, each holder will
be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 of liquidation preference to which his
or her shares are entitled.  Holders of shares of Series J Preferred Stock will
be entitled to one vote for each such share of Series J Preferred Stock held by
them.  

  Section 8.            Conversion.      The holders of
Series J Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series J
Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the
Corporation.  

  Section 9.            Rank   .  Notwithstanding
anything set forth in the certificate of incorporation or this Certificate of
Designations to the contrary, the board of directors, without the vote of the
holders of the Series J Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional
shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock.  

80   

Section 10.          Repurchase   . 
Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and
sell Series J Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner,
and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine;    provided   ,    
however   , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such
purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is,
or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.  

  Section 11.          Unissued or Reacquired Shares   . 
Shares of Series J Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and
redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be
restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock
without designation as to series.  

  Section 12.          No Sinking Fund   .  Shares of
Series J Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.  

   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    has caused this Certificate of Designations to be
signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer,
and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this     30 th      day of
December, 2008.   

  WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY  

By:                      /s/ Barbara S. Brett                                   
            Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President  
            and Assistant Treasurer   

               /s/ Laurel A. Holschuh                 
Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
December 30, 2008.]  

   WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY    

CERTIFICATE
OF DESIGNATIONS    

   Pursuant
to Section 151(g) of the 
General Corporation Law 
of the State of Delaware    

FIXED-TO-FLOATING
RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES K 
(Without Par Value)    

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), HEREBY
CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of
the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorizes
the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par
value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the
Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation
Law ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to
the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on November 20, 2008, in
accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:   

  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the
Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors
dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, the By-laws of the      

81   

Corporation and
applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation
be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such
series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and
relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications,
limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as
follows:   

  Section 1.            Designation   .  The shares of
such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Fixed-to-Floating Rate non
Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series K, with no par value and a
liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (hereinafter referred to as the     Series
K Preferred Stock    ).  Each share of Series K Preferred Stock shall be
identical in all respects to every other share of Series K Preferred Stock. 
Series K Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will
rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  

  Section 2.            Number of Shares   .  The
number of shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be 3,500,000.  Such number
may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of
authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of
shares of Series K Preferred Stock then outstanding) by the board of
directors.  Shares of Series K Preferred Stock that are redeemed, purchased or
otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall be cancelled and shall revert to
authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock undesignated as to series. 
The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series K
Preferred Stock.  

  Section 3.            Definitions   .  As used herein
with respect to Series K Preferred Stock:  

      Business Day     means each Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions in Charlotte, North
Carolina or New York, New York are not authorized or obligated by law,
regulation or executive order to close.  

      Depositary Company     shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 6(d).  

      Dividend Payment Date     shall have the meaning
set forth in Section 4(a).  

      Dividend Period     shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 4(a).  

      DTC     means The Depositary Trust Company,
together with its successors and assigns.  

      Fixed Rate Period     shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 4(a).  

      Floating Rate Period     shall have the meaning
set forth in Section 4(a).  

      Junior Stock     means the Corporation s common
stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter
authorized over which Series K Preferred Stock has preference or priority in
the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of any
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs
of the Corporation.  

      London Banking Day     means any day on which
commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits
in U.S. dollars) in London.  

      Nonpayment Event     shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 7(a).  

      Parity Stock     means any other class or series
of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par with Series K Preferred Stock
in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or
non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary
or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  

      Preferred Stock Directors     shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 7(a).  

82   

Reuters Screen LIBOR01
page     means the display page so designated on Reuters (or such other page
as may replace that page on that service, or such other service as may be
nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or
prices comparable to London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits).  

      Series K Preferred Stock     shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 1.  

      Three-Month LIBOR     means, with respect to any
Dividend Period beginning on or after March 15, 2018, the rate for
deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period that appears on Reuters
Screen LIBOR01 page as of 11:00 a.m.  (London time) on the second London
Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period.  If the rate
described above does not appear on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 page, Three-Month
LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S.
dollars for a three-month period and in a principal amount of not less than
$1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four
major banks in the London interbank market selected by us, at   approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the second London
Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period.  Wachovia Bank,
National Association, as calculation agent for the Preferred Stock, will
request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a
quotation of its rate.  If at least two such quotations are provided,
Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic
mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such
quotations.  If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with
respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if
necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks
in New York, New York, selected by the calculation agent, at approximately
11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for
loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period and in
a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000.  However, if the banks selected
by the calculation agent to provide quotations are not quoting as described
above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as
Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the
case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been
determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had the
Preferred Stock been outstanding.  The calculation agent s establishment of
Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend
Period will be on file at our principal offices, will be made available to any
holder of Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the
absence of manifest error.  

      Voting Parity Stock     means any Parity Stock
having similar voting rights as the Series K Preferred Stock.  

  Section 4.            Dividends   .   

  (a)           Rate   .  Holders of Series K Preferred
Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the board of
directors, but only out of funds legally available therefor, non-cumulative
cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share of Series K
Preferred Stock, and no more, from the date of issuance to, but excluding
March 15, 2018 at a rate of 7.98% per annum (the     Fixed Rate
Period    ) payable semi-annually in arrears on each March 15 and
September 15, beginning on September 15, 2008.  Thereafter, declared
dividends will be at a floating rate equal to Three-Month LIBOR plus
3.77% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears, on
March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15
of each year, beginning on June 15, 2018 (the     Floating Rate Period    ). 
If any date specified pursuant to the preceding sentence is not a Business Day,
then dividends will be payable on the first Business Day following such date
and dividends shall accrue to the actual payment date.  The term     Dividend
Payment Date     means, with respect to the Fixed Rate Period, March 15
and September 15, and with respect to the Floating Rate Period,
March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15,
or if any such day in the case of this clause is not a Business Day, the next Business
Day.  The term     Dividend Period     means each period from and including a
Dividend Payment Date (or the date of issuance of the Series K Preferred Stock
for the first Dividend Payment Date) to but excluding the next Dividend Payment
Date;    provided    that the first Dividend Period shall be deemed to have
commenced on December 15, 2008.  The amount of dividends payable for any
Dividend Period during the Fixed Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of
a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.  The amount of dividends
payable for any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period shall be
computed on the basis of actual number of days in a Dividend Period and a
360-day year.  

  (b)           Non-Cumulative Dividends   .  Dividends
on shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent
that any dividends payable on the shares of Series   K
Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full
or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall
not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall
have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall
have no right to receive, dividends accrued for the Dividend Period ending
immediately prior to such Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Payment
Date, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent      

83   

Dividend Period with respect to Series K Preferred Stock,
Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred
stock of the Corporation.  Holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in
excess of full dividends for each Dividend Period on the Series K Preferred
Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in
respect of any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments or failure to make any
Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments.  

  (c)           Priority of Dividends   .  So long as
any share of Series K Preferred Stock remains outstanding, unless full
dividends on all outstanding shares of Series K Preferred Stock for the
then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and set aside
for payment, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for
payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment
on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock,
(ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise
acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other
than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior
Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into
another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds
of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor
shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the
redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, and (iii) no shares
of Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for
consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a
result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into Parity Stock or Junior
Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into
another share of Parity Stock or for or into Junior Stock, and other than
through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of
other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to
or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities
by the Corporation, otherwise than pursuant to    pro rata    offers to
purchase all, or a    pro rata    portion, of the Series K Preferred Stock and
such Parity Stock.  The foregoing shall not restrict the ability of the
Corporation, or any affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any
market-making transactions in the Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary
course of business.  When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of
Series K Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon
shares of Series K Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a
proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear
to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current
Dividend Period per share on Series K Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends,
including any accumulations, on Parity Stock, bear to each other.  No interest
will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on such Parity Stock that
may be in arrears.  If the board of directors determines not to pay any
dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will
provide written notice to the holders of the Series K Preferred Stock prior to
such date.  Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends
(payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the board of
directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of
any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series K Preferred
Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.  

  Section 5.            Liquidation Rights   .   

  (a)           Liquidation   .  In the event of any
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs
of the Corporation, holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall be entitled,
before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be
made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the
rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or
on parity with Series K Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the
Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidation
preference in an amount equal to $1,000 per share, plus an amount equal to all
declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the date
of liquidation.  The holder of Series K Preferred Stock shall not be entitled
to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other
than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.  

  (b)           Partial Payment   .  If the assets of
the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference to
all holders of Series K Preferred Stock and the liquidation preferences of any
Parity Stock to all holders of such Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the
holders of Series K Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock
shall be    pro rata    in accordance with the respective aggregate
liquidation preferences of Series K Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.  

  (c)           Residual Distributions   .  If the
liquidation preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series K
Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior
Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation
according to their respective rights and preferences.  

84   

(d)           Merger,
Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation   .  For purposes of this
Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of
stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the
property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business
combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation
or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination
transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be
deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up
of the affairs of the Corporation.  

  Section 6.            Redemption   .   

  (a)           Optional Redemption   .  So long as
full dividends for all outstanding shares of Series K Preferred Stock and
Parity Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid or declared
and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside, and subject to
applicable regulatory approvals, the Corporation, at the option of the board of
directors, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of Series K Preferred
Stock at the time outstanding, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after
March 15, 2018 upon notice given as provided in Subsection (b) below,
at the redemption price in effect at the redemption date as provided in this
Section 6.  The redemption price for shares of Series K Preferred Stock
shall be $1,000 per share plus declared and unpaid dividends for the
then-current Dividend Period, without interest.  

  (b)           Notice of Redemption   .  Notice of
every redemption of shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first
class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares
to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the
Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days
before the date fixed for redemption.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the
Series K Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the
Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.  Any notice
mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have
been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure
duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the
mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series K Preferred Stock designated
for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption
of any other shares of Series K Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state
(i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series K
Preferred Stock to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; and
(iv) the place or places where the Series K Preferred Stock are to be
redeemed.  

  (c)           Partial Redemption   .  In case of any
redemption of only part of the shares of Series K Preferred Stock at the time
outstanding, the shares of Series K Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be
selected either    pro rata    from the holders of record of Series K
Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series K Preferred Stock held by
such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the board of directors may
determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions hereof, the
board of directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms
and conditions upon which shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be redeemed
from time to time.  

  (d)           Effectiveness of Redemption   .  If
notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption
date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been
set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust
for the     pro rata    benefit of the holders of the shares called for
redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by
the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the board of directors
(the     Depositary Company    ) in trust for the    pro rata    benefit of
the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any
certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for
cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for
redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such
shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with
respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and
terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount
payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after
the redemption date the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation
shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company
any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for
redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited
and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the
extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the
event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares
so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the
Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above
for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall
in no event be entitled to any interest.  

85   

Section 7.            Voting
Rights   .  The holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall not have any voting
rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by
applicable law.  

  (a)           Right To Elect Two Directors Upon
Nonpayment Events   .  If and whenever the dividends on the Series K Preferred
Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and
paid in an aggregate amount equal to full dividends for at least six Dividend
Periods or their equivalent (whether or not consecutive) (a     Nonpayment
Event    ), the number of directors then constituting the board of directors
shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of Series K Preferred
Stock, voting together as a single and separate class with the holders of any
outstanding shares of Voting Parity Stock, shall be entitled to elect the two
additional directors (the     Preferred Stock Directors    ) by a plurality of
the votes cast,    provided    that it shall be a qualification for election
for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director shall
not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of
the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading
facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded)
that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors,
and    provided further    that the board of directors shall at no time
include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of
this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity
Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  

  In the event that the holders of Series K Preferred
Stock and such other holders of Voting Parity Stock shall be entitled to vote
for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment Event,
such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event at
the Corporation s next annual meeting of shareholders, and, except as provided
below, at each subsequent annual meeting of shareholders of the Corporation.  

  When dividends have been paid in full on the Series K
Preferred Stock and any and all Voting Parity Stock for at least four
consecutive Dividend Periods or their equivalent after a Nonpayment Event, then
the right of the holders of Series K Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred
Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting
rights in the case of any future Nonpayment Event), and, if and when all rights
of holders of Series K Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to elect the
Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the
Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors
constituting the board of directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.  

  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any
time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of
Series K Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting
rights described above (voting together as a single and separate class).  In
case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor
shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series K
Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described
above, voting together as a single and separate class.  The Preferred Stock
Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that
shall come before the board of directors for a vote.  

  (b)           Other Voting Rights   .  So long as any
shares of Series K Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other
vote or consent of shareholders required by law or by the certificate of
incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the
shares of   Series K Preferred Stock at the time
outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting separately as a single class
with all other series of preferred stock ranking equally with the Series K
Preferred Stock and entitled to vote thereon, given in person or by proxy,
either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the
purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating any of the following
actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law:  

  (i)            Issuance
of Senior Stock   .  The issuance of any class or series of preferred stock of
the Corporation ranking senior to the Series K Preferred Stock with respect to
either the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of
any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
affairs of the Corporation;  

  (ii)           Amendment
Affecting Series K Preferred Stock   .  Any amendment, alteration or repeal of
any provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws so as to adversely
affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series K
Preferred Stock;  

86   

(iii)          Authorization of Senior Stock   .  Any
amendment or alteration of any provision of the certificate of incorporation or
bylaws to authorize, create or increase the authorized amount of, any shares
of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of
capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series K Preferred Stock
with respect to either the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets
in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Corporation; or  

  (iv)          Share
Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations   .  Any consummation
of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series K
Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with
another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of
Series K Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger
or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or
resulting corporation, are converted into or exchanged for preference
securities of the surviving or resulting corporation or a corporation
controlling such corporation, and (y) such Series K Preferred Stock shares
remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such
rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not
materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences,
privileges and voting powers of the Series K Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;  

   provided   ,     however   , that any amendment of the
certificate of incorporation to authorize or create or to increase the
authorized amount of any Junior Stock or any class or series or any securities
convertible into shares of any class or series of Parity Stock or Junior Stock
will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or
voting powers of the Series K Preferred Stock, and the Series K Preferred Stock
shall have no right to vote thereon.  

  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange,
reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(b)
would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting preferred stock
(including the Series K Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by
and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a
single class (in lieu of all other series of preferred stock).  

  (c)           Changes for Clarification   .  Without
the consent of the holders of Series K Preferred Stock, so long as such action
does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting
powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series K Preferred
Stock, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the
Series K Preferred Stock:  

  (i)         to
cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained
in this Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or  

  (ii)        to
make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to
the Series K Preferred Stock that is not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Certificate of Designations.  

  (d)           Changes after Provision for Redemption   . 
No vote or consent of the holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall be required
pursuant to this Section 7 if, at or prior to the time when any such vote
or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all
outstanding shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or
shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds
shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to
Section 6.  

  (e)           Procedures for Voting and Consents   . 
The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders
of Series K Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a
record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at
such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any
rules the board of directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time,
which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the certificate
of incorporation, the bylaws, applicable law and any national securities
exchange or other trading facility in which the Series K Preferred Stock is
listed or traded at the time.  Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a
plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series K Preferred Stock
and any Voting Parity Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the
holders of shares of Series K Preferred Stock are entitled to vote shall be
determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts
of the shares voted or covered by the consent.  

87   

For purposes of
determining the voting rights of the holders of Series K Preferred Stock under
this Section 7, each holder will be entitled to one vote for each $1,000
of liquidation preference to which his or her shares are entitled.  Holders of
shares of Series K Preferred Stock will be entitled to one vote for each such
share of Series K Preferred Stock held by them.  

  Section 8.            Conversion   .  The holders of
Series K Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series K
Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the
Corporation.  

  Section 9.            Rank   .  Notwithstanding
anything set forth in the certificate of incorporation or this Certificate of
Designations to the contrary, the board of directors, without the vote of the
holders of the Series K Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional
shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock.  

  Section 10.          Repurchase   .  Subject to the
limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series K
Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such
terms as the board of directors may determine;    provided   ,     however   ,
that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when
there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such
purchase would be, rendered insolvent.  

  Section 11.          Unissued or Reacquired Shares   . 
Shares of Series K Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and
redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be
restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock
without designation as to series.  

  Section 12.          No Sinking Fund   .  Shares of
Series K Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.  

   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    has caused this Certificate of Designations to be
signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer,
and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this     30 th      day of
December, 2008.   

  WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY  

By:                      /s/ Barbara S. Brett                                   
            Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President  
            and Assistant Treasurer   

               /s/ Laurel A. Holschuh                 
Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
December 30, 2008.]  

88   

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    

CERTIFICATE
OF DESIGNATIONS    

   Pursuant
to Section 151(g) of the 
General Corporation Law 
of the State of Delaware    

7.50% NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CONVERTIBLE

CLASS A
PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES L  
(Without Par Value)    

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and
existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), HEREBY
CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of
the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorizes
the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par
value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the
Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation
Law ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to
the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on November 20, 2008, in
accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:   

  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the
Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors
dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation,
the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock,
no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the
designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other
powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or
other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of
the shares of such series, are as follows:   

  Section 1.        Designation   .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be
designated 7.50% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A Preferred Stock,
Series L, with no par value and a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share
(hereinafter referred to as the     Series L Preferred Stock    ). Each share
of Series L Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other
share of Series L Preferred Stock. Series L Preferred Stock will rank equally
with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to
the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any
voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding-up and liquidation of the
Corporation.  

  Section 2.        Number of Shares   .  The authorized number of shares of Series L Preferred
Stock shall be 4,025,000. Such number may from time to time be increased (but
not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or
decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series L Preferred Stock then
outstanding) by the board of directors. Shares of Series L Preferred Stock that
are converted in accordance with the terms hereof, purchased or otherwise
acquired by the Corporation shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock undesignated as to series. The
Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series L
Preferred Stock.  

  Section 3.        Definitions   .  As used herein with respect to Series L Preferred
Stock:  

      Applicable Conversion Price     at any given time
means, for each share of Series L Preferred Stock, the price equal to $1,000
divided by the Applicable Conversion Rate in effect at such time.  

      Applicable Conversion Rate     means the
Conversion Rate in effect at any given time.  

      Base Price     has the meaning set forth in
Section 13(d)(i).  

89   

Business Day    
means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking
institutions in Charlotte, North Carolina or New York, New York are not
authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.  

      Capital Stock     of any Person means any and all
shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or
other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) equity of such
Person, including any preferred stock, excluding any debt securities
convertible into such equity.  

      Closing Price     of the Common Stock on any date
of determination means the closing sale price or, if no closing sale price is
reported, the last reported sale price of the shares of the Common Stock on the
New York Stock Exchange on that date. If the Common Stock is not traded on the
New York Stock Exchange on any date of determination, the Closing Price of the
Common Stock on such date of determination means the closing sale price as
reported in the composite transactions for the principal U.S. national or
regional securities exchange or securities exchange in the European Economic
Area on which the Common Stock is so listed or quoted, or, if no closing sale
price is reported, the last reported sale price on the principal U.S. national
or regional securities exchange or securities exchange in the European Economic
Area on which the Common Stock is so listed or quoted, or if the Common Stock
is not so listed or quoted on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange
or securities exchange in the European Economic Area, the last quoted bid price
for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market as reported by Pink Sheets
LLC or a similar organization, or, if that bid price is not available, the
market price of the Common Stock on that date as determined by a nationally recognized
independent investment banking firm (unaffiliated with the Corporation)
retained by the Corporation for this purpose. The  Closing Price  for any other
share of Capital Stock shall be determined on a comparable basis,    mutatis
mutandis   .   

  For purposes of this Certificate of Designations, all
references herein to the  Closing Price  and  last reported sale price  of the
Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange shall be such closing sale price
and last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock
Exchange (http://www.nyse.com) and as reported by Bloomberg Professional
Service; provided that in the event that there is a discrepancy between the
closing sale price or last reported sale price as reflected on the website of
the New York Stock Exchange and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service,
the closing sale price and last reported sale price on the website of the New
York Stock Exchange will govern.  

  For purposes of calculating the Closing Price, if a
Reorganization Event has occurred and (1) the Exchange Property consists
only of shares of common securities, the Closing Price shall be based on the
Closing Price of such common securities; (2) the Exchange Property
consists only of cash, the Closing Price shall be the cash amount paid per
share; and (3) the Exchange Property consists of securities, cash and/or
other property, the Closing Price shall be based on the sum, as applicable, of
(x) the Closing Price of such common securities, (y) the cash amount
paid per share of Common Stock and (z) the value (as determined by the
board of directors from time-to-time) of any other securities or property paid
to holders of Common Stock in connection with the Reorganization Event.  

      Common Stock     means the common stock, $1-2/3
par value per share, of the Corporation.  

      Conversion Agent     means American Stock
Transfer   Trust Company acting in its capacity as conversion agent
for the Series L Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns or any other
conversion agent appointed by the Corporation.  

      Conversion Date     has the meaning set forth in
Section 13(a)(iv)(B).  

      Conversion Rate     means for each share of
Series L Preferred Stock, 6.3814 shares of Common Stock, plus cash in lieu of
fractional shares, subject to adjustment as set forth herein.  

      Current Market Price     per share of Common
Stock on any date of determination means the average of the VWAP per share of
Common Stock on each of the 10 consecutive VWAP Trading Days ending on the
earlier of the day in question and the day before the Ex-Date or other
specified date with respect to the issuance or distribution requiring such
computation, appropriately adjusted to take into account the occurrence during
such period of any event described in Section 14(a)(i) through (v).  

90   

Depositary     means
DTC or its nominee or any successor depositary appointed by the Corporation.  

      Dividend Payment Date     has the meaning set
forth in Section 4(a).  

      Dividend Period     has the meaning set forth in
Section 4(a).  

      Dividend Threshold Amount     has the meaning set
forth in Section 14(a)(iv).  

      DTC     means The Depository Trust Company,
together with its successors and assigns.  

      Exchange Act     means the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended.  

      Exchange Property     has the meaning set forth
in Section 15(a).  

      Ex-Date     when used with respect to any
issuance or distribution, means the first date on which such shares of Common
Stock or other securities trade without the right to receive an issuance or
distribution with respect thereto.  

      Expiration Time     has the meaning set forth in
Section 12(a)(v).  

      Expiration Date     has the meaning set forth in
Section 14(a)(v).  

      Fiscal Quarter     means, with respect to the
Corporation, the fiscal quarter publicly disclosed by the Corporation.  

      Fundamental Change     has the meaning set forth
in Section 13(d)(i).  

      Holder     means the Person in whose name the
shares of Series L Preferred Stock are registered, which may be treated by the
Corporation, Transfer Agent, Registrar, paying agent and Conversion Agent as
the absolute owner of the shares of Series L Preferred Stock for the purpose of
making payment and settling conversions and for all other purposes.  

      Junior Stock     means the Common Stock and any
other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized over
which Series L Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of
dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding-up of the affairs of the
Corporation.  

      Make-Whole Acquisition     means the occurrence,
prior to any Conversion Date, of one of the following:  

  (a)            person     or     group     within
the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act files a Schedule TO or
any schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person
or group has become the direct or indirect ultimate  beneficial owner,  as
defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of common equity of the
Corporation representing more than 50% of the voting power of the Common Stock;
or  

  (b)        consummation of any consolidation or merger
of the Corporation or similar transaction or any sale, lease or other transfer
in one transaction or a series of related transactions of all or substantially
all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, taken
as a whole, to any Person other than one of the Corporation s subsidiaries, in
each case, pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into cash,
securities, or other property, other than pursuant to a transaction in which
the Persons that  beneficially owned  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the
Exchange Act) directly or indirectly, Voting Shares immediately prior to such
transaction beneficially own, directly or indirectly, Voting Shares
representing a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding classes of
Voting Shares of the continuing or surviving Person immediately after the
transaction;  

   provided   ,     however   
that a Make-Whole Acquisition will not be deemed to have occurred if at least
90% of the consideration received by holders of the Common Stock in the
transaction or transactions (as determined by the board of directors) consists
of shares of common securities of a Person or American Depositary Receipts in
respect of such      

91   

common securities that are traded on a
U.S. national securities exchange or a securities exchange in the European
Economic Area or that will be traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or
a securities exchange in the European Economic Area when issued or exchanged in
connection with a Make-Whole Acquisition.  

      Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion     has the
meaning set forth in Section 13(c)(i).  

      Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Period     has
the meaning set forth in Section 13(c)(i).  

      Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date     has the
meaning set forth in Section 13(c)(i).  

      Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price     means the
price paid per share of Common Stock in the event of a Make-Whole Acquisition.
If the holders of shares of Common Stock receive only cash in the Make-Whole
Acquisition in a single per-share amount, other than with respect to appraisal
and similar rights, the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price shall be the cash
amount paid per share of Common Stock. For purposes of the preceding sentence
as applied to a Make-Whole Acquisition of the type set forth in clause
(a) of the definition Make-Whole Acquisition, a single price per share of
Common Stock shall be deemed to have been paid only if the transaction or
transactions that caused the Make-Whole Acquisition to occur was a tender offer
for more than 50% of the then-outstanding Common Stock. Otherwise, the
Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price shall be the average of the Closing Price
per share of Common Stock on the ten Trading Days up to, but not including, the
Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date.  

      Make-Whole Shares     has the meaning set forth
in Section 13(c)(i).  

      Mandatory Conversion Date     has the meaning set
forth in Section 13(b)(iii).  

      Market Disruption Event     means any of the
following events that has occurred:  

  (a)        change or quotation system on which the
VWAP is determined pursuant to the definition of the VWAP Trading Day (a     Relevant
Exchange    ) during the one-hour period prior to the close of trading for the
regular trading session on the Relevant Exchange (or for purposes of
determining the VWAP per share of Common Stock any period or periods
aggregating one half-hour or longer during the regular trading session on the
relevant day) and whether by reason of movements in price exceeding limits
permitted by the Relevant Exchange, or otherwise relating to Common Stock or in
futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock on the Relevant
Exchange;  

  (b)        any event (other than an event described in
clause (c)) that disrupts or impairs (as determined by the Corporation in its
reasonable discretion) the ability of market participants during the one-hour
period prior to the close of trading for the regular trading session on the
Relevant Exchange (or for purposes of determining the VWAP per share of Common
Stock any period or periods aggregating one half-hour or longer during the
regular trading session on the relevant day) in general to effect transactions
in, or obtain market values for, the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange or
to effect transactions in, or obtain market values for, futures or options
contracts relating to the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange; or  

  (c)        the failure to open of the Relevant
Exchange on which futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock,
are traded or the closure of such Relevant Exchange prior to its respective
scheduled closing time for the regular trading session on such day (without
regard to after hours or any other trading outside of the regular trading
session hours) unless such earlier closing time is announced by such Relevant
Exchange at least one hour prior to the earlier of the actual closing time for
the regular trading session on such day and the submission deadline for orders
to be entered into such Relevant Exchange for execution at the actual closing
time on such day.  

      Nonpayment Event     has the meaning set forth in
Section 7(a).  

      Notice of Mandatory Conversion     has the
meaning set forth in Section 13(b)(iii).  

      Parity Stock     means any other class or series
of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par with Series L Preferred Stock
in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or
non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary
or involuntary dissolution, winding-up and liquidation of the Corporation.  

92   

Person     means a
legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint
venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust.  

      Preferred Stock Directors     has the meaning set
forth in Section 7(a).  

      Purchased Shares     has the meaning set forth in
Section 12(a)(v).  

      Record Date     has the meaning set forth in
Section 12(d), except for purposes of Section 14.  

      Reference Price     means the applicable
Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price.  

      Registrar     means American Stock
Transfer   Trust Company acting in its capacity as registrar for the
Series L Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns or any other registrar
appointed by the Corporation.  

      Relevant Exchange     has the meaning set forth
above in the definition of Market Disruption Event.  

      Reorganization Event     has the meaning set forth
in Section 15(a).  

      Series L Preferred Stock     has the meaning set
forth in Section 1.  

      Trading Day     means a day on which the shares
of Common Stock:  

  (a)        are not suspended from trading on any
national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter
market at the close of business; and  

  (b)        have traded at least once on the national
or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market that
is the primary market for the trading of the Common Stock.  

      Transfer Agent     shall mean American Stock
Transfer   Trust Company acting in its capacity as transfer agent for
the Series L Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns or any other
transfer agent appointed by the Corporation.  

      Voting Parity Stock     means any Parity Stock
having similar voting rights as the Series L Preferred Stock.  

      Voting Shares     of a Person means shares of all
classes of Capital Stock of such Person then outstanding and normally entitled
(without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election
of the board of directors of such Person.  

      VWAP     per share of the Common Stock on any
VWAP Trading Day means the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed
under the heading Bloomberg VWAP on Bloomberg page WFC equity AQR (or its
equivalent successor if such page is not available) in respect of the period
from the open of trading on the relevant VWAP Trading Day until the close of
trading on the relevant VWAP Trading Day (or if such volume-weighted average
price is unavailable, the market price of one share of Common Stock on such
VWAP Trading Days determined, using a volume-weighted average method, by a
nationally recognized investment banking firm (unaffiliated with the
Corporation) retained for this purpose by the Corporation). The VWAP for any
other share of Capital Stock shall be determined on a comparable basis,   
mutatis mutandis.   

      VWAP Trading Day     means, for purposes of
determining a VWAP per share of Common Stock, a Business Day on which the
Relevant Exchange (as defined in the definition of Market Disruption Event) is
scheduled to be open for business and on which there has not occurred or does
not exist a Market Disruption Event.  

  Section 4.        Dividends   .   

  (a)           Rate   .  Holders of Series L Preferred
Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the board of
directors, but only out of funds legally available therefor, non-cumulative
cash dividends on the      

93   

liquidation preference of $1,000
per share of Series L Preferred Stock, and no more, from the date of issuance
at a rate    per annum    equal to 7.50%, payable quarterly in arrears on
each March 15, June 15, September 15 and
December 15, commencing June 15, 2008. The term  Dividend Payment
Date  means March 15, June 15, September 15 and
December 15. If any date specified pursuant the preceding sentence is not
a Business Day, then dividends will be payable on the first Business Day
following such date and dividends shall be payable to the actual payment date
and no interest or other payment shall be paid with respect of such delay. The
term  Dividend Period  means each period from and including a Dividend Payment
Date (or the date of issuance of the Series L Preferred Stock for the first
Dividend Payment Date) to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date;   
provided    that the first Dividend Period shall be deemed to have commenced
on December 15, 2008. The amount of dividends payable for any Dividend Period
shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day
months.  

  (b)           Non-Cumulative Dividends   .  Dividends
on shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent
that any dividends payable on the shares of Series L Preferred Stock on any
Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such
Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall
cease to be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and
the holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive,
dividends payable in respect of the Dividend Period ending immediately prior to
such Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Payment Date, whether or not
dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to the
Series L Preferred Stock, any Parity Stock, any Junior Stock or any other class
or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. Holders of Series L
Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in
cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends for each Dividend Period
on the Series L Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of
interest, shall be payable in respect of any Dividend Payment or Dividend
Payments or failure to make any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments.  

  (c)           Priority of Dividends   .  So long as
any share of Series L Preferred Stock remains outstanding and, as to any Junior
Stock or Parity Stock then outstanding, unless full dividends on all
outstanding shares of Series L Preferred Stock for the Dividend Period ending
on or immediately prior to the dividend payment date or other payment date for
such Junior Stock or Parity Stock have been paid in full or declared and set
aside for payment, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside
for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for
payment on such Junior Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in Junior
Stock) or on such Parity Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph
in the case of Parity Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be
purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation,
directly or indirectly (other than (1) as a result of a reclassification
of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, (2) the exchange or conversion
of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock,
(3) through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous
sale of other shares of Junior Stock or (4) in connection with the
satisfaction of the Corporation s obligations pursuant to any contract entered
into in the ordinary course prior to the beginning of such Dividend Period),
nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the
redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, and (iii) no shares
of Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for
consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than
(1) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into Parity
Stock or Junior Stock, (2) the exchange or conversion of one share of
Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or for or into Junior
Stock, (3) through the use of the proceeds of a substantially
contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock or
(4) in connection with the satisfaction of the Corporation s obligations
pursuant to any contract entered into in the ordinary course prior to the
beginning of such Dividend Period), nor shall any monies be paid to or made
available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the
Corporation (other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially
contemporaneous sale described in clause (ii)(3) or (iii)(3) above), otherwise
than pursuant to    pro rata    offers to purchase all, or a    pro rata   
portion, of the Series L Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock.  

  When dividends are not paid in full upon the Series L
Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, dividends upon shares of the Series L
Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock will be declared on a proportional basis,
based upon the ratio of the amount of dividends declared on the Series L
Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock to the amount that, if declared, would be
full dividends (including accrued and unpaid dividends as to any Parity Stock
that bears dividends on a cumulative basis) on the Series L Preferred Stock and
such Parity Stock through the next succeeding applicable dividend payment date.
If the board of directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend
on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the
holders of the Series L Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the
foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or
otherwise) as may be determined by the board of directors may be declared and
paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available
therefor, and the shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to
participate in any such dividend.  

94   

Section 5.        Liquidation
Rights   .   

  (a)           Liquidation   .  In the event of any
voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding-up and liquidation of the
Corporation, holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall be entitled, before any
distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or
set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the
holders of any Parity Stock or class or series of securities ranking senior to
or on parity with the Series L Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights
of the Corporation s creditors, to receive in full a liquidation preference in
an amount equal to $1,000 per share, plus an amount equal to all declared and
unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the date of
liquidation. The holder of Series L Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to
any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary
dissolution, winding-up and liquidation of the Corporation other than what is
expressly provided for in this Section 5.  

  (b)           Partial Payment   .  If the assets of the
Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference to all
holders of Series L Preferred Stock and the liquidation preferences of any
Parity Stock to all holders of such Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the
holders of Series L Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock
shall be     pro rata     in accordance with the respective aggregate
liquidation preferences of Series L Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.  

  (c)           Residual Distributions   .  If the
applicable liquidation preference has been paid in full to all holders of
Series L Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of
Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the
Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.  

  (d)           Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets
Not Liquidation   .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale,
conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or
other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of
the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution,
liquidation or winding-up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the
merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the
Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger,
consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other
corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary
or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding-up of the affairs of the
Corporation.  

  Section 6.        Redemption   .  The shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall not be
redeemable.  

  Section 7.        Voting Rights   .  The holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall not have
any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time
required by applicable law.  

  (a)           Right To Elect Two Directors Upon
Nonpayment Events   .  If after the issuance of the Series L Preferred Stock
the Corporation fails to pay, or declare and set aside for payment, full
dividends on the Series L Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting
Parity Stock for six Dividend Periods or their equivalent (whether or not
consecutive) (a     Nonpayment Event    ), the number of directors then
constituting the board of directors shall automatically be increased by two and
the holders of Series L Preferred Stock, voting together as a single and
separate class with the holders of all outstanding shares of Voting Parity
Stock, shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the     Preferred
Stock Directors    ) by a plurality of the votes cast; provided that it shall
be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the
election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate the
corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other
securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the
Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must
have a majority of independent directors; and provided further that the board
of directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors
(including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of
any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting
rights).  

  In the event that the holders of Series L Preferred
Stock and such other holders of Voting Parity Stock shall be entitled to vote
for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment Event,
such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event at
the Corporation s next annual meeting of shareholders, and, except as provided
below, at each subsequent annual meeting of shareholders of the Corporation.  

  When dividends have been paid in full on the Series L
Preferred Stock and any and all Voting Parity Stock for at least four
consecutive Dividend Periods or their equivalent after a Nonpayment Event, then
the right of the      

95   

holders of Series L Preferred Stock
to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to
revesting of such rights in the case of any future Nonpayment Event), and, if
and when all rights of holders of Series L Preferred Stock and Voting Parity
Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of
office of all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the
number of directors constituting the board of directors shall automatically be
reduced accordingly.  

  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any
time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of
Series L Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting
rights described above (voting together as a single and separate class). In
case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor
shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series L
Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described
above, voting together as a single and separate class. The Preferred Stock
Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that
shall come before the board of directors for a vote.  

  (b)           Other Voting Rights   .  So long as any
shares of Series L Preferred Stock are outstanding, the vote or consent of the
holders of at least 66    2/3 % of the shares of Series L Preferred
Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting separately
as a single class with all other classes or series of preferred stock ranking
equally with the Series L Preferred Stock and entitled to vote thereon, given
in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any
meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating
any of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware
law:  

  (i)            Amendment Affecting Series L Preferred
Stock   .  Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the
certificate of incorporation or bylaws so as to adversely affect the rights,
preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series L Preferred Stock.  

  (ii)           Authorization or Issuance of Senior
Stock   .  Any amendment or alteration of any provision of the certificate of
incorporation or bylaws to authorize, create or increase the authorized amount
of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into
shares of, any class or series of Capital Stock of the Corporation ranking
senior to the Series L Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of
dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary
dissolution, winding-up and liquidation of the affairs of the Corporation; or  

  (iii)          Share Exchanges, Reclassifications,
Mergers and Consolidations   .  Any consummation of a binding share exchange
or reclassification involving the Series L Preferred Stock, or of a merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with another Person, unless in each case
(x) the shares of Series L Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the
case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation
is not the surviving or resulting Person, are converted into or exchanged for
preference securities of the surviving or resulting Person or a Person
controlling such Person, and (y) such Series L Preferred Stock shares
remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have
such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as
are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series L Preferred Stock,
taken as a whole;  

   provided   ,     however   ,
that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized amount of or
issuance of Series L Preferred Stock or any class or series of Parity Stock or
Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity
Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative
or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the
rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series L Preferred Stock,
and holders of the Series L Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote
thereon.  

  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange,
reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(b)
would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting preferred stock
(including the Series L Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by
and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a
single class (in lieu of all other series of preferred stock).  

  (c)           Changes for Clarification   .  Without
the consent of the holders of Series L Preferred Stock, so long as such action
does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting
powers, and      

96   

limitations and restrictions thereof, of
the Series L Preferred Stock, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or
repeal any terms of the Series L Preferred Stock:  

  (i)         to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct
or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that
may be defective or inconsistent; or  

  (ii)        to make any provision with respect to
matters or questions arising with respect to the Series L Preferred Stock that
is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.  

  (d)           Procedures for Voting and Consents   . 
The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders
of Series L Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a
record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at
such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any
rules the board of directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time,
which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the certificate
of incorporation, the bylaws, applicable law and any national securities
exchange or other trading facility in which the Series L Preferred Stock is
listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a
plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series L Preferred Stock
and any Voting Parity Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the
holders of shares of Series L Preferred Stock are entitled to vote shall be
determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts
of the shares voted or covered by the consent.  

  For purposes of determining the voting rights of the
holders of Series L Preferred Stock under this Section 7, each holder will
be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 of liquidation preference to which his
or her shares are entitled. Holders of shares of Series L Preferred Stock will
be entitled to one vote for each such share of Series L Preferred Stock held by
them.  

  Section 8.        Rank   .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the certificate
of incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the board
of directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series L Preferred Stock,
may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock.  

  Section 9.        Repurchase   .  Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the
Corporation may purchase and sell Series L Preferred Stock from time to time to
such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the board of directors may
determine;    provided   ,     however   , that the Corporation shall not use
any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to
believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered
insolvent.  

  Section 10.      Unissued or Reacquired Shares   . 
Shares of Series L Preferred Stock not
issued or which have been issued and converted in accordance with the terms
hereof or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored
to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without
designation as to series.  

  Ssection 11.     No Sinking Fund   .  Shares of Series L Preferred Stock are not subject to
the operation of a sinking fund.  

  Section 12.      Right to Convert   .  Each Holder shall have the right, at such Holder s
option, at any time, to convert all or any portion of such Holder s Series L
Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Applicable Conversion Rate
(subject to the conversion procedures set forth in Section 13 herein) plus
cash in lieu of fractional shares.  

  Section 13.      Conversion   .   

  (a)           Conversion Procedures   .   

  (i)         Effective immediately prior to the close
of business on the Mandatory Conversion Date or any applicable Conversion Date,
dividends shall no longer be declared on any converted shares of Series L
Preferred Stock and such shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall cease to be
outstanding, in each case, subject to the right of Holders to receive any
declared and unpaid dividends on such shares and any other payments to which
they are otherwise entitled pursuant to Section 12, Section 13(b),
Section 13(c), Section 13(d), Section 15 or Section 16, as
applicable.  

97   

(ii)        Prior to the
close of business on the Mandatory Conversion Date or any applicable Conversion
Date, shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of, or other securities
issuable upon conversion of, any shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall not
be deemed outstanding for any purpose, and Holders shall have no rights with
respect to the Common Stock or other securities issuable upon conversion
(including voting rights, rights to respond to tender offers for the Common
Stock and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common
Stock and/or other securities issuable upon conversion), by virtue of holding
shares of Series L Preferred Stock.  

  (iii)       The Person or Persons entitled to receive
the Common Stock and/or other securities issuable upon conversion of Series L
Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder(s) of
such shares of Common Stock and/or such other securities as of the close of
business on the Mandatory Conversion Date or any applicable Conversion Date
except to the extent that all or a portion of such Common Stock is subject to
the limitations set forth in Section 18. In the event that a Holder
shall not by written notice designate the name in which shares of Common Stock
and/or cash, other securities or other property (including payments of cash in
lieu of fractional shares) to be issued or paid upon conversion of shares of
Series L Preferred Stock should be registered or paid or the manner in which
such shares should be delivered, the Corporation shall be entitled to register
and deliver such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the Holder and
in the manner shown on the records of the Corporation through book-entry
transfer through the Depositary.  

  (iv)       Conversion into shares of Common Stock will
occur on the Mandatory Conversion Date or any applicable Conversion Date as
follows:  

  (A)       On
the Mandatory Conversion Date or applicable Conversion Date, certificates or
evidence of shares in book-entry form representing shares of Common Stock shall
be issued and delivered to Holders or their designee upon presentation and
surrender of the certificate evidencing the Series L Preferred Stock to the
Conversion Agent if shares of the Series L Preferred Stock are held in
certificated form, and, if required, the furnishing of appropriate endorsements
and transfer documents and the payment of all transfer and similar
taxes. If a Holder s interest is a beneficial interest in a global
certificate representing Series L Preferred Stock, a book-entry transfer
through the Depositary will be made by the Conversion Agent upon compliance
with the Depositary s procedures for converting a beneficial interest in a
global security.  

  (B)       On
the date of any conversion at the option of Holders pursuant to
Section 12, Section 13(c) or Section 13(d), if a Holder s
interest is in certificated form, a Holder must do each of the following in
order to convert:  

  (1)        complete
and manually sign the conversion notice provided by the Conversion Agent, or a
facsimile of the conversion notice, and deliver this irrevocable notice to the
Conversion Agent;  

  (2)        surrender
the shares of Series L Preferred Stock to the Conversion Agent;  

  (3)        if
required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents;  

  (4)        if
required, pay all transfer or similar taxes; and  

  (5)        if
required, pay funds equal to any declared and unpaid dividend payable on the
next Dividend Payment Date.  

  If a Holder s interest is a beneficial interest in a
global certificate representing Series L Preferred Stock, in order to convert a
Holder must comply with clauses (3) through (5) listed above and
comply with the Depositary s procedures for converting a beneficial interest in
a global security.  

  The date on which a Holder complies with the
procedures in this clause (v) is the  Conversion Date.   

98   

(C)       Conversion Agent shall, on a Holder s
behalf, convert the Series L Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock and/or
cash, other securities or other property (involving payments of cash in lieu of
fractional shares), in accordance with the terms of the notice delivered by
such Holder described in clause (B) above. If a Conversion Date on
which a Holder elects to convert Series L Preferred Stock is prior to the
Record Date relating to any declared dividend for the Dividend Period, such
Holder will not have the right to receive any declared dividends for that
Dividend Period. If a Conversion Date on which a Holder elects to convert
Series L Preferred Stock or the Mandatory Conversion Date is after the Record
Date for any declared dividend and prior to the Dividend Payment Date, such
Holder shall receive that dividend on the relevant Dividend Payment Date if
such Holder was the Holder of record on the Record Date for that dividend.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Conversion Date is after the
Record Date and prior to the Dividend Payment Date, whether or not such Holder
was the Holder of record on the Record Date, the Holder must pay to the
Conversion Agent upon conversion of the shares of Series L Preferred Stock an
amount in cash equal to the full dividend actually paid on the Dividend Payment
Date for the then-current Dividend Period on the shares of Series L Preferred
Stock being converted, unless the Holder s shares of Series L Preferred Stock
are being converted pursuant to Section 13(b), Section 13(c) or
Section 13(d).  

  (b)           Mandatory Conversion at the Corporation s
Option   .   

  (i)         On or after March 15, 2013, the
Corporation may, at its option, at any time or from time to time, cause some or
all of the Series L Preferred Stock to be converted into shares of Common Stock
at the Applicable Conversion Rate if, for 20 Trading Days during any period of
30 consecutive Trading Days, including the last Trading Day of such period, the
Closing Price of the Common Stock exceeds 130% of the Applicable Conversion
Price of the Series L Preferred Stock. The Corporation will provide Notice
of Mandatory Conversion as set forth in Section 13(b)(iii) within three
Trading Days after the end of the 30 consecutive Trading Day period.  

  (ii)        If the Corporation elects to cause less
than all of the Series L Preferred Stock to be converted under clause
(i) above, the Conversion Agent will select the Series L Preferred Stock
to be converted by lot, or on a    pro rata    basis or by another method the
Conversion Agent considers fair and appropriate, including any method required
by the Depositary (so long as such method is not prohibited by the rules of any
stock exchange or quotation association on which the Series L Preferred Stock
is then traded or quoted). If the Conversion Agent selects a portion of a
Holder s Series L Preferred Stock for partial conversion at the Corporation s
option and such Holder converts a portion of its shares of Series L Preferred
Stock at the same time, the portion converted at such Holder s option will
reduce the portion selected for conversion at the Corporation s option under
this Section 13(b).  

  (iii)       If the Corporation exercises the optional
conversion right described in this Section 13(b), the Corporation shall
give notice (such notice a     Notice of Mandatory Conversion    ) by
(i) providing a notice of such conversion by first class mail to each
Holder of record for the shares of Series L Preferred Stock to be converted or
(ii) issuing a press release and making this information available on its
website. The Conversion Date shall be a date selected by the Corporation
(the     Mandatory Conversion Date    ), not less than 10 days, and not more
than 20 days, after the date on which the Corporation provides the Notice of
Mandatory Conversion. In addition to any information required by
applicable law or regulation, the Notice of Mandatory Conversion shall state,
as appropriate:  

  (A)       the
Mandatory Conversion Date;  

  (B)       the
number of shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of each share of
Series L Preferred Stock; and  

  (C)       the
aggregate number of shares of Series L Preferred Stock to be converted.  

  (c)           Conversion upon Make-Whole Acquisition   .   

  (i)         In the event of a Make-Whole Acquisition
occurring prior to a Mandatory Conversion Date or Conversion Date, each Holder
shall have the option to convert its shares of Series L Preferred Stock (a     Make-Whole
Acquisition Conversion    ) during the period (the     Make-Whole Acquisition
Conversion Period    ) beginning on the effective date of the Make-Whole
Acquisition (the     Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date    ) and      

99   

ending on the date that is 30 days after the
Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and receive an additional number of
shares of Common Stock (the     Make-Whole Shares    ) as set forth in clause
(ii) below.  

  (ii)        The number of Make-Whole Shares per share
of Series L Preferred Stock shall be determined by reference to the table below
for the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and the applicable
Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price:  

    Make-Whole
Acquisition Stock Price    

(A)       The
exact Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices and Make-Whole Acquisition Effective
Dates may not be set forth in the table, in which case:  

  (1)        if
the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is between two Make-Whole Acquisition
Stock Price amounts in the table or the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date
is between two dates in the table, the number of Make-Whole Shares will be
determined by straight-line interpolation between the number of Make-Whole
Shares set forth for the higher and lower Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price
amounts and the two Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Dates, as applicable,
based on a 365-day year;  

  (2)        if
the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is in excess of $502.26 per share
(subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 14), no Make-Whole Shares will
be issued upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock; and  

  (3)        if
the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is less than $120.54 per share (subject
to adjustment pursuant to Section 14), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued
upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock.  

  (B)       The
Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices set forth in the table above are subject to
adjustment pursuant to Section 14 hereof and shall be adjusted as of any
date the Conversion Rate is adjusted. The adjusted Make-Whole Acquisition
Stock Prices will equal the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices applicable
immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of
which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to
the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices adjustment and the denominator of which
is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. Each of the number of Make-Whole
Shares in the table shall also be subject to adjustment in the same manner as
the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 14.  

  (iii)       On or before the twentieth day prior to
the date the Corporation anticipates being the effective date for the
Make-Whole Acquisition or within two business days of becoming aware of a
Make-Whole Acquisition of the type set forth in clause (a) of the
definition Make-Whole Acquisition, a written notice shall be sent by or on
behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders
as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall
contain:  

  (A)       the
anticipated effective date or effective date of the Make-Whole Acquisition; and  

100   

(B)       the date, which shall be 30 days after
the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date, by which a Make-Whole Acquisition
Conversion must be exercised.  

  (iv)       On the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective
Date or as soon as practicable thereafter, another written notice shall be sent
by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to
the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice
shall contain:  

  (A)       the
date that shall be 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date;  

  (B)       the
number of Make-Whole Shares;  

  (C)       the
amount of cash, securities and other consideration receivable by a Holder of
Series L Preferred Stock upon conversion; and  

  (D)       the
instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in connection
with such Make-Whole Acquisition.  

  (v)        To exercise a Make-Whole Acquisition
Conversion option, a Holder must, no later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time
on or before the date by which the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option
must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under clause
(iv) above, comply with the procedures set forth in
Section 13(a)(iv)(B).  

  (vi)       If a Holder does not elect to exercise the
Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option in accordance with the provisions
specified in this Section 13(c), the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or
successor security held by it shall remain outstanding (unless otherwise
converted as provided herein), and the Holder will not be eligible to receive
Make-Whole Shares.  

  (vii)      Upon a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion,
the Conversion Agent shall, except as otherwise provided in the instructions
provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the
Corporation or its successor as set forth in Section 13(a)(iv) above,
deliver to the Holder such cash, securities or other property as are issuable
with respect to Make-Whole Shares in the Make-Whole Acquisition.  

  (viii)     In the event that a Make-Whole Acquisition
Conversion is effected with respect to shares of Series L Preferred Stock or a
successor security representing less than all the shares of Series L Preferred
Stock or a successor security held by a Holder, upon such Make-Whole
Acquisition Conversion the Corporation or its successor shall execute and the
Conversion Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and
deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation or its
successors, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or
such successor security held by the Holder as to which a Make-Whole Acquisition
Conversion was not effected.  

  (d)           Conversion Upon Fundamental Change   .   

  (i)         If the Reference Price in connection with
a Make-Whole Acquisition is less than $120.54 (a     Fundamental Change    ),
a Holder may elect to convert each share of Series L Preferred Stock during the
period beginning on the effective date of the Fundamental Change and ending on
the date that is 30 days after the effective date of such Fundamental Change at
an adjusted conversion price equal to the greater of (1) the Reference
Price and (2) $60.27, subject to adjustment as described in clause
(ii) below (the     Base Price    ). If the Reference Price is less
than the Base Price, Holders will receive a maximum of 16.5916 shares of Common
Stock per share of Series L Preferred Stock converted, subject to adjustment as
a result of any adjustment to the Base Price described in clause
(ii) below.  

  (ii)        The Base Price shall be adjusted as of any
date the Conversion Rate of the Series L Preferred Stock is adjusted pursuant
to Section 14. The adjusted Base Price shall equal the Base Price
applicable immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment
giving rise to the Conversion Rate adjustment and the denominator of which is
the Conversion Rate as so adjusted.  

101   

(iii)       In lieu of
issuing Common Stock upon conversion in the event of a Fundamental Change, the
Corporation may at its option, and if it obtains any necessary regulatory
approval, pay an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) equal to the
Reference Price for each share of Common Stock otherwise issuable upon
conversion.  

  (iv)       On or before the twentieth day prior to the
date the Corporation anticipates being the effective date for the Fundamental
Change or within two business days of becoming aware of the Fundamental Change
if it is a Make-Whole Acquisition of the type set forth in clause (a) of
the definition Make-Whole Acquisition, a written notice shall be sent by or on
behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders
as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall
contain:  

  (A)       the
anticipated effective date of the Fundamental Change; and  

  (B)       the
date, which shall be 30 days after the anticipated effective date of a
Fundamental Change, by which a Fundamental Change conversion must be exercised.  

  (v)        On the effective date of a Fundamental
Change or as soon as practicable thereafter, another written notice shall be
sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid,
to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such
notice shall contain:  

  (A)       the
date that shall be 30 days after the effective date of the Fundamental Change;  

  (B)       the
adjusted conversion price following the Fundamental Change;  

  (C)       the
amount of cash, securities and other consideration received by a Holder of
Series L Preferred Stock upon conversion; and  

  (D)       the
instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in
connection with such Fundamental Change.  

  (vi)       To exercise its conversion option upon a
Fundamental Change, a Holder must, no later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time
on or before the date by which the conversion option upon the Fundamental
Change must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under clause
(v) above, comply with the procedures set forth in Section 13
(a)(v)(B) and indicate that it is exercising the Fundamental Change conversion
option.  

  (vii)      If a Holder does not elect to exercise its
conversion option upon a Fundamental Change in accordance with the provisions
specified in this Section 13(d), the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or
successor security held by it shall remain outstanding (unless otherwise
converted as provided herein) and the Holder will not be eligible to convert
its shares pursuant to this Section 13(d).  

  (viii)     Upon a conversion upon a Fundamental
Change, the Conversion Agent shall, except as otherwise provided in the
instructions provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to
the Corporation or its successor as set forth in Section 13(a)(iv),
deliver to the Holder such cash, securities or other property as are issuable
with respect to the adjusted conversion price following the Fundamental Change.  

  (ix)       In the event that a conversion upon a
Fundamental Change is effected with respect to shares of Series L Preferred
Stock or a successor security representing less than all the shares of Series L
Preferred Stock or a successor security held by a Holder, upon such conversion
the Corporation or its successor shall execute and the Conversion Agent shall,
unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to the Holder
thereof, at the expense of the Corporation, a certificate evidencing the shares
of Series L Preferred Stock or such successor security held by the Holder as to
which a conversion upon a Fundamental Change was not effected.  

  Section 14.      Anti-Dilution Adjustments   .   

102   

(a)           Adjustments   . 
The Conversion Rate will be subject to adjustment, without duplication, under
the following circumstances:  

  (i)         The issuance of Common Stock as a dividend
or distribution to all holders of Common Stock or a subdivision or combination
of Common Stock (other than in connection with a Reorganization Event), in
which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following
formula:  

   CR
 1  = CR 0  x (OS  1  / OS 0 )   

  where,  

   CR 0                 =          the
Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Record Date  

   CR 1                 =          the
Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Record Date  

   OS 0                 =          the
number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the
Record Date prior to giving effect to such event  

   OS 1                 =          the
number of shares of Common Stock that would be outstanding immediately after,
and solely as a result of, such event  

  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (1) no adjustment
will be made for the issuance of Common Stock as a dividend or distribution to
all holders of Common Stock that is made in lieu of a quarterly or annual cash
dividend or distribution to such holders, to the extent such dividend or
distribution does not exceed the applicable Dividend Threshold Amount (with the
amount of any such dividend or distribution equaling the number of such shares
being issued multiplied by the average of the VWAP of the Common Stock over
each of the five consecutive VWAP Trading Days prior to the Ex-Date for such
dividend or distribution) and (2) in the event any dividend, distribution,
subdivision or combination that is the subject of this Section 14(a)(i) is
declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall be immediately
readjusted, effective as of the date the board of directors publicly announces
its decision not to pay or make such dividend or distribution or effect such
subdivision or combination, to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect
if such dividend or distribution had not been declared or such subdivision or
combination had not been announced.  

  (ii)        The issuance to all holders of Common
Stock of certain rights or warrants (other than rights issued pursuant to a
shareholder rights plan or rights or warrants issued in connection with a
Reorganization Event) entitling them for a period expiring 60 days or less
from the date of issuance of such rights or warrants to purchase shares of Common
Stock (or securities convertible into Common Stock) at less than (or having a
conversion price per share less than) the Current Market Price as of the Record
Date, in which event each Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the
following formula:  

   CR
 1  = CR 0  x [(OS 0  + X) / (OS 0  + Y)]   

  where,  

   CR 0                 =          the
Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Record Date  

   CR 1                 =          the
Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Record Date  

   OS 0                 =          the
number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the
Record Date  

   X             =          the
total number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to such rights or
warrants (or upon conversion of such securities)  

   Y             =          the number of shares equal to the
quotient of the aggregate price payable to exercise such rights or warrants (or
the conversion price for such securities paid upon conversion) divided by the
average of the VWAP of the Common Stock over each of the ten consecutive VWAP
Trading Days prior to the Business Day immediately preceding the announcement
of the issuance of such rights or warrants  

  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (1) in the event
that such rights or warrants described in this Section 14(a)(ii) are not
so issued, the Conversion Rate shall be immediately readjusted, effective as of
the date the board of directors publicly announces its decision not to issue
such rights or warrants, to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if
such issuance had not been declared and (2) to the extent that such rights
or warrants are not exercised prior to their expiration or shares of the Common
Stock are otherwise not delivered pursuant to such rights or warrants upon the      

103   

exercise of such rights or warrants, the Conversion Rate
shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the
adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants been made on the
basis of delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually
delivered.  

  In determining the aggregate price payable for such
shares of the Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration
received by the Corporation for such rights or warrants and the value of such
consideration (if other than cash, to be determined by the board of directors).
If an adjustment to the Conversion Rate may be required pursuant to this
Section 14(a)(ii), delivery of any additional shares of Common Stock that
may be deliverable upon conversion as a result of an adjustment required
pursuant to this Section 14(a)(ii) shall be delayed to the extent
necessary in order to complete the calculations provided for in this
Section 14(a)(ii).  

  (iii)       The dividend or other distribution to all
holders of Common Stock of shares of capital stock of the Corporation (other
than Common Stock) or evidences of its indebtedness or its assets (excluding
any dividend, distribution or issuance covered by clauses (a)(i) or
(a)(ii) above or (a)(iv) below, any dividend or distribution in connection
with a Reorganization Event or any spin-off to which the provisions set forth
below in this clause (a)(iii) apply) in which event the Conversion Rate will be
adjusted based on the following formula:  

   CR  1 
= CR 0  x [SP 0  / (SP 0    FMV)]   

  where,  

   CR 0                 =          the
Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Record Date  

   CR 1                 =          the
Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Record Date  

   SP 0                  =          the
Current Market Price as of the Record Date  

   FMV       =          the fair market value (as determined by
the board of directors) on the Record Date of the shares of capital stock of
the Corporation, evidences of indebtedness or assets so distributed, applicable
to one share of Common Stock  

  However, if the transaction that gives rise to an
adjustment pursuant to this clause (iii) is one pursuant to which the
payment of a dividend or other distribution on Common Stock consists of shares
of capital stock of the Corporation of, or similar equity interests in, a
subsidiary or other business unit of the Corporation (   i.e.,     a spin-off)
that are, or, when issued, will be, traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the
Nasdaq Stock Market or any other national or regional securities exchange or
market, then the Conversion Rate will instead be adjusted based on the
following formula:  

   CR  1 
= CR 0  x [(FMV 0  + MP 0 ) / MP 0 ]   

  where,  

   CR 0                 =          the
Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Record Date  

   CR 1                 =          the
Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Record Date  

   FMV 0             =          the average
of the VWAP of the Capital Stock distributed to holders of Common Stock
applicable to one share of Common Stock over each of the 10 consecutive VWAP
Trading Days commencing on and including the third VWAP Trading Day after the
date on which  ex-distribution trading  commences for such dividend or
distribution on the NYSE or such other national or regional exchange or
association or over-the-counter market, or, if not so traded or quoted, the
fair market value of the capital stock or similar equity interests distributed
to holders of Common Stock applicable to one share of Common Stock as
determined by the board of directors  

   MP 0         =          the average of the VWAP of the Common
Stock over each of the 10 consecutive VWAP Trading Days commencing on and
including the third VWAP Trading Day after the date on which  ex-distribution
trading  commences for such dividend or distribution on the NYSE or such other
national or regional exchange or association or over-the-counter market on
which Common Stock is then traded or quoted  

  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (1) if any
dividend or distribution of the type described in this Section 14(a)(iii)
is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall be immediately
readjusted, effective as of      

104   

the date the board of
directors publicly announces its decision not to pay such dividend or
distribution, to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such
dividend or distribution had not been declared. If an adjustment to the
Conversion Rate may be required under this Section 14(a)(iii), delivery of
any additional shares of Common Stock that may be deliverable upon conversion
as a result of an adjustment required under this Section 14(a)(iii) shall
be delayed to the extent necessary in order to complete the calculations
provided for in this Section 14(a)(iii).  

  (iv)       The Corporation makes a distribution
consisting exclusively of cash to all holders of Common Stock, excluding
(a) any regular cash dividend on Common Stock to the extent that the
aggregate cash dividend per share of Common Stock does not exceed $1.8835 in
any fiscal quarter (the     Dividend Threshold Amount    ) and (b) any
consideration payable in connection with a tender or exchange offer made by the
Corporation or any its subsidiaries referred to in clause (v) below, in
which event, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following
formula:  

   CR  1 
= CR 0  x [SP 0  / (SP 0    C)]   

  where,  

   CR 0                 =          the
Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Record Date  

   CR 1                 =          the
Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Record Date  

   SP 0                  =          the
Current Market Price as of the Record Date  

   C             =          the amount in cash per share
equal to (1) in the case of a regular quarterly dividend, the amount the
Corporation distributes to holders or pays, less the Dividend Threshold Amount
or (2) in any other case, the amount the Corporation distributes to holders or
pays  

  The Dividend Threshold Amount is subject to adjustment
on an inversely proportional basis whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted;
provided that no adjustment will be made to the Dividend Threshold Amount for
any adjustment made to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this clause (iv).  

  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividend or
distribution of the type described in this Section 14(a)(iv) is declared
but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall be immediately readjusted,
effective as of the date the board of directors publicly announces its decision
not to pay such dividend or distribution, to the Conversion Rate that would
then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.  

  (v)        The Corporation or one or more of its
subsidiaries make purchases of Common Stock pursuant to a tender offer or
exchange offer by the Corporation or a subsidiary of the Corporation for Common
Stock to the extent that the cash and value (as determined by the board of
directors) of any other consideration included in the payment per share of
Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged exceeds the VWAP per share of Common
Stock on the VWAP Trading Day next succeeding the last date on which tenders or
exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (the     Expiration
Date    ), in which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the
following formula:  

   CR 1  = CR 0  x [(FMV + (SP 1 
x OS 1 ) / (SP  1  x OS 0 )]   

  where,  

   CR 0                 =          the
Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Expiration Date  

   CR 1                 =          the
Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Expiration Date  

   FMV       =          the
fair market value (as determined by the board of directors), on the Expiration
Date, of the aggregate value of all cash and any other consideration paid or
payable for shares validly tendered or exchanged and not withdrawn as of the
Expiration Date (the     Purchased Shares    )   

   OS 1                 =          the
number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of the last time tenders or
exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (the     Expiration
Time    ) less any Purchased Shares  

   OS 0                 =          the
number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the Expiration Time, including
any Purchased Shares  

105   

SP 1                  =          the
average of the VWAP of the Common Stock over each of the ten consecutive VWAP
Trading Days commencing with the VWAP Trading Day immediately after the
Expiration Date.  

  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Corporation, or
one of its subsidiaries, is obligated to purchase shares of Common Stock
pursuant to any such tender or exchange offer, but the Corporation or such
subsidiary is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such
purchases, or all such purchases are rescinded, then the Conversion Rate shall
be readjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such
tender or exchange offer had not been made. If an adjustment to the Conversion
Rate may be required under this Section 14(a)(v), delivery of any
additional shares of Common Stock that may be deliverable upon conversion as a
result of an adjustment required under this Section 14(a)(v) shall be
delayed to the extent necessary in order to complete the calculations provided
for in this Section 14(a)(v).  

  (b)           Calculation of Adjustments   .  All
adjustments to the Conversion Rate shall be calculated by the Corporation to
the nearest 1/10,000th of one share of Common Stock (or if there is not a
nearest 1/10,000th of a share, to the next lower 1/10,000th of a share). No
adjustment to the Conversion Rate will be required unless such adjustment would
require an increase or decrease of at least one percent;    provided   ,    however   ,
that any such minor adjustments that are not required to be made will be
carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment, and
provided further that any such adjustment of less than one percent that has not
been made will be made prior to any conversion pursuant to Section 13(b),
Section 13(c) or Section 13(d).  

  (c)           When No Adjustment Required   .   

  (i)         Except as otherwise provided in this
Section 14, the Conversion Rate will not be adjusted for the issuance of
Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for Common
Stock or carrying the right to purchase any of the foregoing or for the
repurchase of Common Stock.  

  (ii)           Rights Plans   .  To the extent that
the Corporation has a stockholders  rights plan in effect upon conversion of
the Series L Preferred Stock into Common Stock, Holders will receive, in
addition to any of Common Stock deliverable and in lieu of any adjustment to
the Conversion Rate, the rights under the stockholders  rights plan, unless
prior to any conversion, the rights have separated from Common Stock, in which
case the Conversion Rate will be adjusted at the time of separation as if we
distributed to all holders of Common Stock, shares of the Corporation s Capital
Stock, evidences of indebtedness or assets as described in
Section 14(a)(iii). A further adjustment will occur as described in
Section 14(a)(iii), if such rights become exercisable to purchase
different securities, evidences of indebtedness or assets, subject to
readjustment in the event of the expiration, termination or redemption of such
rights.  

  (iii)       No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need
be made:  

  (A)       upon
the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future
plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on securities
of the Corporation and the investment of additional optional amounts in Common
Stock under any plan;  

  (B)       upon
the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights to purchase
those shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant
benefit plan or program of or assumed by the Corporation or any of its
subsidiaries; or  

  (C)       upon
the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant,
right, or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of
the date the Series L Preferred Stock was first issued.  

  (iv)       No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need
be made for a transaction referred to in Section 14(a)(i) through
(v) if Holders may participate in the transaction on a basis and with notice
that the board of directors determines to be fair and appropriate in light of
the basis and notice on which holders of Common Stock participate in the
transaction.  

  (v)        No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need
be made for a change in the par value or no par value of the Common Stock.  

106   

(vi)       No adjustment
to the Conversion Rate will be made to the extent that such adjustment would
result in the Conversion Price being less than the par value of the Common
Stock.  

  (d)           Record Date   .  For purposes of this
Section 14,  Record Date  means, with respect to any dividend,
distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of the Common
Stock have the right to receive any cash, securities or other property or in
which the Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or
converted into any combination of cash, securities or other property, the date
fixed for determination of holders of the Common Stock entitled to receive such
cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the board of
directors or by statute, contract or otherwise).  

  (e)           Successive Adjustments   .  After an
adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 14, any subsequent
event requiring an adjustment under this Section 14 shall cause an
adjustment to such Conversion Rate as so adjusted.  

  (f)           Multiple Adjustments   .  For the
avoidance of doubt, if an event occurs that would trigger an adjustment to the
Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 14 under more than one subsection
hereof, such event, to the extent fully taken into account in a single
adjustment, shall not result in multiple adjustments hereunder.  

  (g)           Other Adjustments   .  The Corporation
may (but is not required to) make such increases in the Conversion Rate, in
addition to those required by Section 14(a)(i) through (v), as the board
of directors considers to be advisable to avoid or diminish any income tax to
holders of Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of stock
(or rights to acquire stock) or from any event treated as such for income tax
purposes.  

  In addition to the foregoing, to the extent permitted
by applicable law and subject to the applicable rules of the New York Stock
Exchange, the Corporation from time to time may increase the Conversion Rate by
any amount for any period of time if the period is at least 20 business days,
the increase is irrevocable during the period and the board of directors shall
have made a determination that such increase would be in the best interests of
the Corporation, which determination shall be conclusive.  

  (h)           Notice of Adjustments   .  Whenever a
Conversion Rate is adjusted as provided under Section 14, the Corporation
shall within 10 Business Days following the occurrence of an event that
requires such adjustment (or if the Corporation is not aware of such
occurrence, as soon as reasonably practicable after becoming so aware) or
within 15 calendar days of the date the Corporation makes an adjustment
pursuant to Section 14(g):  

  (i)         compute the adjusted applicable Conversion
Rate in accordance with Section 14 and prepare and transmit to the
Conversion Agent an Officers  Certificate setting forth the applicable
Conversion Rate, as the case may be, the method of calculation thereof in reasonable
detail, and the facts requiring such adjustment and upon which such adjustment
is based; and  

  (ii)        provide a written notice to the Holders of
the occurrence of such event and a statement in reasonable detail setting forth
the method by which the adjustment to the applicable Conversion Rate was
determined and setting forth the adjusted applicable Conversion Rate.  

  (i)            Conversion Agent   .  The Conversion
Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder
to determine whether any facts exist that may require any adjustment of the
applicable Conversion Rate or with respect to the nature or extent or
calculation of any such adjustment when made, or with respect to the method
employed in making the same. The Conversion Agent shall be fully authorized and
protected in relying on any Officers  Certificate delivered pursuant to
Section 14(h) and any adjustment contained therein and the Conversion
Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment unless and until
it has received such certificate. The Conversion Agent shall not be accountable
with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any shares of
Common Stock, or of any securities or property, that may at the time be issued
or delivered with respect to any of the Series L Preferred Stock; and the
Conversion Agent makes no representation with respect thereto. The Conversion
Agent shall not be responsible for any failure of the Corporation to issue,
transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to a the conversion of
the Series L Preferred Stock or to comply with any of the duties,
responsibilities or covenants of the Corporation contained in this
Section 14.  

107   

Section 15.      Reorganization
Events   .   

  (a)        In the event of:  

  (i)         any consolidation or merger of the
Corporation with or into another Person, in each case pursuant to which the
Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities, or other property of the
Corporation or another Person;  

  (ii)        any sale, transfer, lease, or conveyance
to another Person of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the
Corporation and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in each case pursuant to
which the Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities, or other
property; or  

  (iii)       any reclassification of the Common Stock
into securities, including securities other than the Common Stock; or  

  (iv)       any statutory exchange of the Corporation s
securities with another Person (other than in connection with a merger or
acquisition);  

  (any
such event specified in this Section 15(a), a     Reorganization Event    
each share of Series L Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to such
Reorganization Event shall, without the consent of Holders, become convertible
into the types and amounts of securities, cash, and other property that is or
was receivable in such Reorganization Event by a holder of the shares of Common
Stock that was not the counterparty to the Reorganization Event or an affiliate
of such other party in exchange for such Common Stock (such securities, cash,
and other property, the     Exchange Property    ).   

  (b)        In the event that holders of the shares of
the Common Stock have the opportunity to elect the form of consideration to be
received in such transaction, the consideration that the Holders are entitled
to receive upon conversion shall be deemed to be the types and amounts of
consideration received by the majority of the holders of the shares of the
Common Stock that affirmatively make an election (or of all such holders if
none make an election). On each Conversion Date following a Reorganization
Event, the Conversion Rate then in effect will be applied to the value on such
Conversion Date of the securities, cash, or other property received per share
of Common Stock, determined as set forth above. The amount of Exchange
Property receivable upon conversion of any Series L Preferred Stock in
accordance with Section 12, Section 13(b), Section 13(c) or
Section 13(d) hereof shall be determined based upon the then Applicable
Conversion Rate.  

  (c)        The above provisions of this
Section 15 shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization Events and
the provisions of Section 14 shall apply to any shares of Capital Stock of
the Corporation (or any successor) received by the holders of the Common Stock
in any such Reorganization Event.  

  (d)        The Corporation (or any successor) shall,
within 20 days of the occurrence of any Reorganization Event, provide
written notice to the Holders of such occurrence of such event and of the type
and amount of the cash, securities or other property that constitutes the
Exchange Property. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the
operation of this Section 15.  

  Section 16.      Fractional Shares   .   

  (a)        No fractional shares of Common Stock will
be issued as a result of any conversion of shares of Series L Preferred Stock.  

  (b)        In lieu of any fractional share of Common
Stock otherwise issuable in respect of any conversion at the Corporation s
option pursuant to Section 13(b) hereof or any conversion at the option of
the Holder pursuant to Section 12, Section 13(c) or
Section 13(d) hereof, the Corporation shall pay an amount in cash
(computed to the nearest cent) equal to the same fraction of the Closing Price
of the Common Stock determined as of the second Trading Day immediately preceding
the effective date of conversion.  

108   

(c)        If more than
one share of the Series L Preferred Stock is surrendered for conversion at one
time by or for the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock
issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the
aggregate number of shares of the Series L Preferred Stock so surrendered.  

  Section 17.      Reservation of Common Stock   .   

  (a)        The Corporation shall at all times reserve
and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance
upon the conversion of shares of Series L Preferred Stock as provided in this
Certificate of Designations, free from any preemptive or other similar rights,
such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable
upon the conversion of all the shares of Series L Preferred Stock then
outstanding, calculated assuming the Applicable Conversion Price equals the
Base Price, subject to adjustment as described under Section 14. For
purposes of this Section 17(a), the number of shares of Common Stock that
shall be deliverable upon the conversion of all outstanding shares of Series L
Preferred Stock shall be computed as if at the time of computation all such
outstanding shares were held by a single Holder.  

  (b)        All shares of Common Stock delivered upon
conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock shall be duly authorized, validly
issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free and clear of all liens, claims,
security interests and other encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security
interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders).  

  (c)        Prior to the delivery of any securities
that the Corporation shall be obligated to deliver upon conversion of the
Series L Preferred Stock, the Corporation shall use its reasonable best efforts
to comply with all federal and state laws and regulations thereunder requiring
the registration of such securities with, or any approval of or consent to the
delivery thereof by, any governmental authority.  

  (d)        The Corporation hereby covenants and agrees
that, so long as the Common Stock shall be listed on the New York Stock
Exchange or any other national securities exchange or automated quotation
system, the Corporation will, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or
automated quotation system, list and keep listed all the Common Stock issuable
upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock;    provided   ,     however   ,
that if the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system permit the
Corporation to defer the listing of such Common Stock until the first conversion
of Series L Preferred Stock into Common Stock in accordance with the provisions
hereof, the Corporation covenants to list such Common Stock issuable upon
conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock in accordance with the requirements
of such exchange or automated quotation system at such time.  

  Ssection 18.     Limitations on Beneficial Ownership   . 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained herein, and subject to the last sentence of this Section 18, no
holder of Series L Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive shares of Common
Stock upon conversion pursuant to Section 12 and Section 13 hereof to
the extent, but only to the extent, that such receipt would cause such
converting holder to become, directly or indirectly, a  beneficial owner 
(within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder) of more than 9.9% of the shares of Common
Stock outstanding at such time. Any delivery of shares of Common Stock upon a
purported conversion of Series L Preferred Stock shall be void and have no
effect and such shares shall for all purposes continue to represent outstanding
shares of Series L Preferred Stock to the extent (but only to the extent) that
such delivery would result in the converting holder becoming the beneficial
owner of more than 9.9% of the shares of Common Stock outstanding at such time.
If any delivery of shares of Common Stock owed to a holder upon conversion of
Series L Preferred Stock is not made, in whole or in part, as a result of this
limitation, the Corporation s obligation to make such delivery shall not be
extinguished and the Corporation shall deliver such shares as promptly as
practicable after any such converting holder gives notice to the Corporation
that such delivery would not result in it being the beneficial owner of more
than 9.9% of the shares of Common Stock outstanding at such time.
Notwithstanding anything in this paragraph to the contrary, these limitations
on beneficial ownership shall not be applicable to or limit the number of
shares of Series L Preferred Stock to be converted as a result of a mandatory
conversion by the Corporation pursuant to Section 13(b).  

  Section 19.      Preemptive or Subscription Rights   . 
The Holders of Series L Preferred Stock
shall not have any preemptive or subscription rights.  

   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY    has caused this Certificate of Designations to be
signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer,
and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this     30 th      day of
December, 2008.   

109   

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

By:                      /s/ Barbara S. Brett                                   
            Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President  
            and Assistant Treasurer   

               /s/ Laurel A. Holschuh                 
Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on December
30, 2008.]  

  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

  ___________________________________  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  

  Pursuant to Section 151 of the  

  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware  

  ___________________________________  

2010 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

  (Without Par Value)  

  ___________________________________  

WELLS FARGO  
COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority
conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the
provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as
amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of
Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to
authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the
 ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation
Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by the
resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly
adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000 and
February 24, 2009, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of
the ESOP Committee duly adopted on March 23, 2010, in accordance with Section
141(f) of the General Corporation Law:  

1.         On
January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board
Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP
Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions,
in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock
( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan
hereinafter referred to:   

RESOLVED
that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed
by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ),
which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these
resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred
Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable
upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix
the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights,
qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell such ESOP
Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase
price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any
and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate.  

2.         Pursuant
to resolutions adopted on February 24, 2009, the Board designated John G.
Stumpf as the sole member of the ESOP Committee, effective April 29, 2009.  

110   

3.         On March 23,
2010, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board
Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolutions by written
consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:  

RESOLVED that the
issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is
hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and
relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set
forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended,
are hereby fixed as follows:  

2010 ESOP CUMULATIVE
CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

1.     Designation
and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue   .   

(a) The
designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for
herein shall be  2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter
referred to as the  2010 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized
shares constituting the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock is 1,000,000, based on an
offering price for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,080.00 per share.  Each
share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per
share.  The number of authorized shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock may be
reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities
Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction
has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares
of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding
number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized
shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the
2010 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company
shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and
may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock.  

(b)  Shares
of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee )
acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor
to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which
the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with
respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of record ownership of
shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor
trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred,
upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder
thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par
value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms
otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4
hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences,
and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of
2010 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights
pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a conversion, the transferee
of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as
the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2010
ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such
transfer.  Shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or
uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates representing shares of
2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing
provisions.  In the case of uncertificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, the
transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing
provisions on each 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account.  The Company
may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any
uncertificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge
in writing that the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the
foregoing provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this
paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be
converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4
hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph
(b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such
conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and
(ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided
in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof.  

              2.     Voting
Rights   .  No shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights
except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as
set forth in this Section 2, as follows:  

111   

(a)  Whenever, at
any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the
aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares
of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as
a class with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred
Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, either
as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual
meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders. 
At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders
of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity being
entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock
held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such
holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall
automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be
filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of
Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have
been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such
holders of such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class
with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock
ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred
and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue
until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with
respect to such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as
herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each
and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.  

(b)  Upon
any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock
entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all
directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall
terminate immediately.  If the office of any director elected by such holders
voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement,
disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director
elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such
successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such
vacancy occurred.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such
holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such
holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of
directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the
Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this
resolution.  

(c)  So
long as any shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent
of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and
outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity
with such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to dividends or the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon
which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of
at least two-thirds of all such outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock
and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in
person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting
called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one
or more of the following:  

(i)  the
authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2010
ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   

(ii)  the
amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise,
of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the
resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations designating shares of
2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating,
optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and
restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right,
preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the
amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other series
of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any
series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to
the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of
dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights,
preferences, privileges or voting powers.  

112   

(d)  The foregoing
voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with
respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all
outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or
sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption.  

3.            Dividends   .  (a)(i) 
Holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive,
when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out
of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend
of $95.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject
to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3.  

(ii)  The
Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2011 and on each December 1 thereafter until
December 1, 2019, as follows:    

(1)  If
the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock
on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if
November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment
Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than
the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash
dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $100.00 per
share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).    

(2)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the
next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year
listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the
Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend
for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $105.00 per share
(the  Second Adjusted Dividend ).  

(3)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next
preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed
in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price
shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately
following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend.  

  23)               

24)               
   Dividend Adjustment Table   

(4)  As
an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above,
if on November 30, 2011, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock
is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve
month period per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $100.00, with
the first quarterly payment of such $100.00 dividend to be made on March 1,
2012.  If on November 30, 2012, the Current Market Price of one share of Common
Stock is $60.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following
twelve month period per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $105.00,
with the first quarterly payment of such $105.00 dividend to be made on March
1, 2013.  If on November 30, 2013, the Current Market Price of one share
of Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock would
equal $95.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $95.00 dividend to be
made on March 1, 2014.  

113   

(5)  For
purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second
Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the
term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section
4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in
Section 4(c)(vi).  

(iii)  If
one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table
shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of
shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up,
combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon
shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target
Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each
subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted.  

(iv)  Dividends
payable on shares of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are
equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable
quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year,
commencing June 1, 2010.  Dividends on shares of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock
will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2010
ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of
record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates,
not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates
thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee
thereof.  The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period
shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted
Dividend, whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for
the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period
shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of
twelve 30-day months.  

(b)(i)  No
full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock
of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2010
ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been
or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for
the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the
date of payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid
in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and any
other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2010
ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to
dividends with 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the
amount of dividends declared per share on 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and such
other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same
ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other.  Holders of
shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend,
whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative
dividends, as herein provided, on 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock.  No interest, or
sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend
payment or payments on 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears.  

(ii)  So
long as any shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend
(other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants,
or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other
stock ranking junior to 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon
liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3)
shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution
declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company
ranking junior to or on a parity with 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends
or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of
the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock as
to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired
for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking
fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except
by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2010
ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each
case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of
the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods.  

4.     Conversion   .  Shares
of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter
pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that
number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of
each share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion
Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii)
of this Section 4), as follows:  

114   

(a)  Each
share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the
Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted,
without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date
such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable
shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2010
ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.  

(b)  Subject
to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2010
ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of
business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5
or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock
held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of
Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   

(c)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:   

(i)  The
 Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be
deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common
Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day
occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is
defined in Section 6(d) hereof).  

(ii)  A
 Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which
state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are
not required to be open.  

(iii)  (A)  For
purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant
Release Date.  

(B)  For
purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the
Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4)
is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock
designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.   

(C)  For
purposes of a conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of
Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d)
hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.   

Each share of 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes
of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of
Common Stock into which the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be
converted.    

(iv)  The
 Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other
class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for
any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no
sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked
prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New
York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the
Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to
trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of
the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations
System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market
System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the
over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for
the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ,
the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New
York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock
selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such
quotations are available, the fair market value of the      

115   

Common
Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a
market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a
committee thereof.  

                                      (v)   Common
Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the
date of this Certificate of Designations or as such stock may be constituted
from time to time.  

(vi) 
 Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is
listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another
national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or
such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the
Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which
trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any
Business Day.  

                          (d) 
In connection with any conversion of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this
Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be
delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of
the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices
in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to
time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock by
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, which
notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of
2010 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly
assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly
executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated
2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for
the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this
Section 4.  Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a
mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of
shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of
the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion
hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or
certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so
converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to
be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z)
such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request.  

(e)  Upon
delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock
of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required
to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, 
the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class
mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at
the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the
number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon
conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates
representing shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be
converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s
designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate
or certificates representing the number of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock
which shall not have been converted.  

                          (f)  The
issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares
of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this
Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of
shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section
4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of
such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of
(A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates
representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B)
the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to
effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and
after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to
receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all
purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no
allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to
holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. 
The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have
accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2010
ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or
after the effective date of conversion of such shares.  

116   

(g)  The Company
shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock any
fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any conversion of such
shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash
payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.  

                          (h)  The
Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and
unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of
2010 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights,
such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable
upon the conversion of all the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock then
outstanding.  

                          (i)  The
Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common
Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock
prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange,
if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such
delivery.  

                          (j)  The
Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer
taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on
conversions of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be
payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares
of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made
unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the
Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of
the Company, that such tax has been paid.  

                          5.     Redemption
At the Option of the Company   .  (a)  The 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the
Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to
all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and
(y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this
Section 5) per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for
redemption.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in
cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by
paragraph (c) of this Section 5.  From and after the date fixed for redemption,
dividends on shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will
cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall
cease, except the right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the
redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the
Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full
cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set
aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, the
Company may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5.  

                          (b)  Unless
otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5
will be sent to the holders of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown
on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by
first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may
be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the
redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii)
the total number of shares of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and,
if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number
of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price;
(iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common
Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of
certificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates
for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi)
that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such
redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed,
the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in
which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share
of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined.  The Company shall redeem
shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed
for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5,
provided that, in the case of certificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, the
Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the
certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed
or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so
require and the notice shall so state).  

                          (c)  The
Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon
redemption of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of
Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such
shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market
Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current
Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the      

117   

2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result
in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder
of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed.  

                          (d)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

                                      (i)   Adjustment
Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding
the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.  

                                      (ii)   Fair
Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of
capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly
traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities
for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of any security
which is not publicly traded (other than the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of
any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which
the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as determined by an
independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation
of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a
committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock
for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c)
of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an
independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with
the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2010
ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as
of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a
redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market
Value of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume
(i) that all dividends on the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid
when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to
Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together
with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan
in accordance with the terms of that certain 2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about March 26, 2010 between the
Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto).  

              6.     Consolidation,
Merger, etc.     (a)  If the Company consummates any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the
outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for
or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or
resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying
employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock within
the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,
and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash
payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger or
similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of
such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation,
insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences and relative, participating,
optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by
Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions
thereon, that the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such
transaction, subject to the following:  

                          (1)  After
such transaction each share of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4
hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so
receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior
to such transaction.  

                          (2)  The
Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar
transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as
aforesaid.  

                          (b)  If
the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business
combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by
operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other
stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof,
other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying
employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and
cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares
of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the
Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this
Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger,
consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such      

118   

consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock
into which such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted
at such time so that each share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue
of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common
Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock,
securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder
of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such
transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a
holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the
nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which
election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock, then the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such
transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be
converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash
or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of
shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock
could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder
of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or
amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such
transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other
property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing
share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property
receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind
and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares.  

                          (c)  In
the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation
or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this
Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as
practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business Days
before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the
material terms thereof to each holder of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and each
such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to
receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is
consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption
and retirement of such 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of
2010 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued
and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or
(y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the
last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately
preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated.  No such notice of
redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of
business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction,
unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior
notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be
withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of
business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction.  

(d)  In
the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and
shall be continuing, each holder of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the
right to convert shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common
Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until
the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because
the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has
expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company
not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates
(the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor
of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so
given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to
the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.  

For
purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

(i) 
 Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person 
shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the
Exchange Act.  

(ii)  A
 Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company
or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is
defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer
to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer,
such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to
acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting
power of the Company.  

7.     Liquidation
Rights   .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
Company, the holders of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available
for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall
be made on the Common Stock or any other      

119   

class of
stock ranking junior to 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the amount
of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned
or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final
distribution.  

(b)  Neither
the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company,
nor the merger or consolidation of the Company into or with any other
corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or
with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding
up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7.  

(c)  After
the payment to the holders of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2010
ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the
remaining assets of the Company.  

(d)  In
the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders
of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or
winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be
insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made
on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other
capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2010 ESOP
Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless
proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of
2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable
amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled
upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.  

(e)  Subject
to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of
stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation,
dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made
in full to the holders of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided
in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes
of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock upon
liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any)
applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be
paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall not be entitled to share therein.  

8.     Ranking   .  For
the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes
of the Company shall be deemed to rank:  

(a)  prior
to the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be
entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon
dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in
preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock;  

(b)  on
a parity with shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or
upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or
redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any,
be different from those of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such
stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable
upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may
be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices,
without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of
such stock and the holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock; and  

(c)  junior
to shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of
2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of
amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares
of such series or class or classes.  

9.     Priority
of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock   .  The shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred
Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2001 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock, its 2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2004
ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2005 ESOP Cumulative      

120   

Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2006 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2007 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock and its 2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.    

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designations to be
signed by John G. Stumpf, its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer,
and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, whereby such
President and Chief Executive Officer affirms, under penalties of perjury, that
this Certificate of Designations is the act and deed of the Company and that
the facts stated herein are true, this     23 rd      day of March,
2010.  

WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY  

By            /s/
John G. Stumpf                                      

  John
G. Stumpf  

  i)                             
  Chairman, President and   

  ii)                           
  Chief Executive Officer  

Attest:  

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                                        

  Jeannine
E. Zahn  

  Assistant
Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
March 23, 2010.]  

  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

  _______________  

CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT  

   OF    

  CERTIFICATE OF       INCORPORATION   

  _______________  

Pursuant to Section 242 of the  

  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware  

  _______________  

Laurel
A. Holschuh, Senior Vice President, and Rachelle M. Graham, Assistant
Secretary, of Wells Fargo   Company, a corporation organized and existing
under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware
(the  Company ), do hereby certify:  

FIRST: 
That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company duly held on
February 23, 2010, a resolution was duly adopted setting forth a proposed
amendment of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company,
declaring the advisability of the amendment, and directing that the amendment
be presented to stockholders of the Company for their consideration at the next
annual meeting of the stockholders to be held on April 27, 2010.  The
resolution setting forth the proposed amendment is as follows:  

RESOLVED that an amendment to ARTICLE FOURTH of the
Company s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, to increase the
authorized common stock to 9,000,000,000 shares is hereby proposed and declared
advisable, and the following amendment to the first sentence of ARTICLE FOURTH
is hereby directed to be presented to the stockholders of the Company for
consideration at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on April 27,
2010:  

121   

FOURTH:  The total number of shares of all
classes of stock which the corporation shall have authority to issue is Nine
Billion Twenty-Four Million (9,024,000,000), consisting of Twenty Million
(20,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock without par value, Four Million
(4,000,000) shares of Preference Stock without par value, and Nine Billion
(9,000,000,000) shares of Common Stock of the par value of $1 2/3 per share.  

SECOND:  That at
such annual meeting of stockholders, duly called and held upon notice in
accordance with Section 222 of the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware, which notice set forth in full the proposed amendment, a majority of
the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company were voted in favor of
the amendment.  

THIRD:  That the
amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of
Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY has
caused this Certificate to be signed by Laurel A. Holschuh, its Senior Vice
President, and attested by Rachelle M. Graham, its Assistant Secretary, this     29 th 
    day of April, 2010.  

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY:  

(Corporate
Seal)  

By:                /s/ Laurel A. Holschuh                    

  Senior Vice President  

ATTEST:  

By:            /s/ Rachelle M. Graham           

  Assistant Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
April 29, 2010.]  

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

  ___________________________________  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  

  Pursuant to Section 151 of the  

  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware  

  ___________________________________  

2011 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

  (Without Par Value)  

  ___________________________________  

WELLS FARGO  
COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority
conferred upon the Board of Directors of the      

122   

Company
(the  Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
the Company, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than
20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred
Stock ), and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock
Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section
141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General
Corporation Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the
following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board
duly held on January 25, 2000 and February 24, 2009, and by the ESOP Committee
pursuant to the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on March 15,
2011, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:  

1.         On
January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board
Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP
Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions,
in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock
( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan
hereinafter referred to:   

RESOLVED
that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed
by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ),
which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to
these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP
Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1 2/3 par value)
issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith,
to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights,
qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell such ESOP
Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase
price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any
and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate.  

2.         Pursuant
to resolutions adopted on February 24, 2009, the Board designated John G.
Stumpf as the sole member of the ESOP Committee, effective April 29, 2009.  

3.         On March 15, 2011, pursuant to authority
conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP
Committee adopted the following resolutions by written consent in accordance
with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:  

RESOLVED that the
issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is
hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and
relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set
forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended,
are hereby fixed as follows:  

2011 ESOP CUMULATIVE
CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

1.     Designation
and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue   .   

(a) The
designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for
herein shall be  2011 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter
referred to as the  2011 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized
shares constituting the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock is 1,200,000, based on an
offering price for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,085.00 per share.  Each
share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per
share.  The number of authorized shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock may be
reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities
Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction
has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares
of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding
number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized
shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the
2011 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company
shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and
may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock.  

(b)  Shares
of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee )
acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor
to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the      

123   

holder
of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company
with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under
the trust agreement with respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of
record ownership of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other
than any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred
Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the
Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of
the common stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common
Stock ) on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of
2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a)
of Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting
powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights
ascribed to shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the
powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2011
ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a conversion,
the transferee of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for
all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the
date of such transfer.  Shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated
or uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates representing shares
of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing
provisions.  In the case of uncertificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the
transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing
provisions on each 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account.  The Company
may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any
uncertificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge
in writing that the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the
foregoing provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this
paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be
converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4
hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by
paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon
such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law
and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions
provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof.  

              2.     Voting
Rights   .  No shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights
except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as
set forth in this Section 2, as follows:  

(a)  Whenever,
at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the
aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares
of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as
a class with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred
Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, either
as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual
meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders. 
At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders
of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity being
entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock
held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such
holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically
be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of
the holders of such outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock (together
with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock
ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred
and are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such holders of such
shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the
holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on
such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until
such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred
Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to
such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or
by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every
subsequent default of the character above mentioned.  

(b)  Upon
any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock
entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all
directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall
terminate immediately.  If the office of any director elected by such holders
voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement,
disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected
by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such
successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such
vacancy occurred.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such
holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in
such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the      

124   

number of directors shall be such number as may be
provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made
pursuant to the provisions of this resolution.  

(c)  So
long as any shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent
of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and
outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity
with such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to dividends or the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon
which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of
at least two-thirds of all such outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in
person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting
called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any
one or more of the following:  

(i)  the
authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2011
ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   

(ii)  the
amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise,
of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the
resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations designating shares of
2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating,
optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and
restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right,
preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred
Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the
amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other
series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares
of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or
junior to the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment
of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights,
preferences, privileges or voting powers.  

(d)  The
foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when
the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be
effected, all outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been
redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such
redemption.  

3.            Dividends   .  (a)(i) 
Holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive,
when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out
of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend
of $90.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject
to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3.  

(ii)  The
Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2012 and on each December 1 thereafter until
December 1, 2020, as follows:    

(1)  If
the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock
on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if
November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment
Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than
the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash
dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $95.00 per
share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).    

(2)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the
next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year
listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the
Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend
for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $100.00 per share
(the  Second Adjusted Dividend ).  

(3)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next
preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed
in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price
shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2011      

125   

ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash
dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base
Dividend.  

   28)                 
     Dividend Adjustment
Table    

(4)  As
an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above,
if on November 30, 2012, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock
is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve
month period per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $95.00, with
the first quarterly payment of such $95.00 dividend to be made on March 1,
2013.  If on November 30, 2013, the Current Market Price of one share of Common
Stock is $60.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following
twelve month period per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $100.00,
with the first quarterly payment of such $100.00 dividend to be made on March
1, 2014.  If on November 30, 2014, the Current Market Price of one share
of Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock would
equal $90.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $90.00 dividend to be
made on March 1, 2015.  

(5)  For
purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second
Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the
term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv);
and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section
4(c)(vi).  

(iii)  If
one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table
shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of
shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up,
combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon
shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target
Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each
subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted.  

(iv)  Dividends
payable on shares of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are
equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable
quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year,
commencing June 1, 2011.  Dividends on shares of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2011
ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of
record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates,
not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates
thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee
thereof.  The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period
shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted
Dividend, whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for
the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period
shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of
twelve 30-day months.  

(b)(i)  No
full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock
of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2011
ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been
or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for
the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the
date of payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid
in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and any
other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends      

126   

with 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared
upon shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred
Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall
be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2011
ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases
bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the
shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock
bear to each other.  Holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not
be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in
excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2011 ESOP Preferred
Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in
respect of any dividend payment or payments on 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock which
may be in arrears.  

(ii)  So
long as any shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend
(other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants,
or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other
stock ranking junior to 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon
liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3)
shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution
declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company
ranking junior to or on a parity with 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends
or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of
the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock as
to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired
for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking
fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except
by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2011
ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each
case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of
the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods.  

4.     Conversion   .  Shares
of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter
pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that
number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of
each share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price,
(as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this
Section 4), as follows:  

(a)  Each
share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the
Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted,
without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date
such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable
shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.  

(b)  Subject
to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2011
ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of
business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5
or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of
Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2011 ESOP Preferred
Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   

(c)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:   

(i)  The
 Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be
deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common
Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day
occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is
defined in Section 6(d) hereof).  

(ii)  A
 Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which
state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are
not required to be open.  

(iii)  (A)  For
purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant
Release Date.  

127   

(B)  For
purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the
Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4)
is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred
Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.   

(C)  For
purposes of a conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of
Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d)
hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.   

Each share of 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes
of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of
Common Stock into which the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be
converted.    

(iv)  The
 Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other
class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for
any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no
sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked
prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New
York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the
Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to
trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of
the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations
System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market
System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the
over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for
the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ,
the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New
York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock
selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such
quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as
determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market
in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee
thereof.  

                                      (v)   Common
Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the
date of this Certificate of Designations or as such stock may be constituted
from time to time.  

(vi) 
 Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is
listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another
national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or
such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the
Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which
trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any
Business Day.  

                          (d) 
In connection with any conversion of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this
Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be
delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of
the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices
in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to
time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock by
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, which
notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of
2011 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly
assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly
executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated
2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for
the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this
Section 4.  Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a
mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of
shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of
the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion
hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or
certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so
converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to
be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z)
such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request.  

128   

(e)  Upon
delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required
to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, 
the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class
mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at
the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the
number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon
conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates
representing shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be
converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s
designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate
or certificates representing the number of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
which shall not have been converted.  

                          (f)  The
issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares
of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this
Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares
of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of
the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the
delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates
representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B)
the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to
effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and
after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to
receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all
purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no
allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to
holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. 
The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have
accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2011
ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or
after the effective date of conversion of such shares.  

                          (g)  The
Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2011 ESOP Preferred
Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any
conversion of such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may
make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.  

                          (h)  The
Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and
unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of
2011 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights,
such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable
upon the conversion of all the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock then
outstanding.  

                          (i)  The
Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common
Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange,
if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such
delivery.  

                          (j)  The
Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer
taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on
conversions of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be
payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares
of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made
unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the
Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of
the Company, that such tax has been paid.  

              5.     Redemption
At the Option of the Company   .  (a)  The 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the
Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred
Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to
all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and
(y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this
Section 5) per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for
redemption.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in
cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by
paragraph (c) of this Section 5.  From and after the date fixed for redemption,
dividends on shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will
cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall
cease, except the right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the
redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the      

129   

Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of
Section 1.  If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or
contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares
of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not redeem fewer than all the
outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5.  

                          (b)  Unless
otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5
will be sent to the holders of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown
on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred
Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by
first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may
be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the
redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii)
the total number of shares of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and,
if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number
of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price;
(iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common
Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of
certificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates
for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi)
that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such
redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed,
the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in
which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share
of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined.  The Company shall redeem
shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed
for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5,
provided that, in the case of certificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the
Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates
for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned
for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so require and the
notice shall so state).  

                          (c)  The
Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon
redemption of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of
Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such
shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market
Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current
Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2011
ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the
greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock then being redeemed.  

                          (d)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

                                      (i)   Adjustment
Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding
the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.  

                                      (ii)   Fair
Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of
capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly
traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities
for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of any security
which is not publicly traded (other than the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of
any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which
the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as determined by an
independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation
of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a
committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c)
of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an
independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with
the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2011
ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as
of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a
redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market
Value of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume
(i) that all dividends on the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid
when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to
Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together
with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan
in accordance with the terms of that certain 2011 ESOP Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about March 18, 2011 between the
Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto).  

              6.     Consolidation,
Merger, etc.     (a)  If the Company consummates any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the
outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for
or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or
resulting corporation (including the Company) that      

130   

constitutes
 qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law,
and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any,
the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection
with such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by
and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation,
having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers,
preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights
(including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the
qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the
following:  

                          (1)  After
such transaction each share of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4
hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so
receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior
to such transaction.  

                          (2)  The
Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar
transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as
aforesaid.  

                          (b)  If
the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business
combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by
operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other
stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof,
other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying
employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and
cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares
of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the
Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this
Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger,
consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation
into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of
2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same
terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged
for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable
in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock
into which such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted
immediately prior to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure
of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election
with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such
transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the
2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall,
by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of
Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock,
securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of
the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction
if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to
the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon
such transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other
property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing
share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property
receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind
and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares.  

                          (c)  In
the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation
or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this
Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as
practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business Days
before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the
material terms thereof to each holder of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and each
such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to
receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is
consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption
and retirement of such 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of
2011 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued
and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or
(y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the
last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately
preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated.  No such notice of
redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of
business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction,
unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior      

131   

notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to
such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior
to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such
transaction.  

(d)  In
the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and
shall be continuing, each holder of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the
right to convert shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common
Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until
the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because
the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has
expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company
not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates
(the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor
of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so
given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to
the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.  

For
purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

(i) 
 Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person 
shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the
Exchange Act.  

(ii)  A
 Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company
or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is
defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer
to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer,
such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to
acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting
power of the Company.  

7.     Liquidation
Rights   .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
Company, the holders of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available
for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall
be made on the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2011
ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus
a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares
accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution.  

(b)  Neither
the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company,
nor the merger or consolidation of the Company into or with any other
corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or
with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding
up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7.  

(c)  After
the payment to the holders of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2011
ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the
remaining assets of the Company.  

(d)  In
the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders
of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or
winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be
insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made
on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other
capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2011 ESOP
Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless
proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of
2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable
amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled
upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.  

(e)  Subject
to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of
stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred
Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation,
dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made
in full to the holders of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided
in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes
of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock upon
liquidation shall, subject to the respective      

132   

terms
and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all
assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of
2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein.  

8.     Ranking   .  For
the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes
of the Company shall be deemed to rank:  

(a)  prior
to the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be
entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon
dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in
preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock;  

(b)  on
a parity with shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or
upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or
redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any,
be different from those of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such
stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable
upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may
be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices,
without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of
such stock and the holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock; and  

(c)  junior
to shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of
2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of
amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares
of such series or class or classes.  

9.     Priority
of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock   .  The shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred
Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2002 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock, its 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2005
ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2006 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2007 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, its 2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and its 2010 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.    

133   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this
Certificate of Designations to be signed by John G. Stumpf, its Chairman,
President and Chief Executive Officer, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its
Assistant Secretary, whereby such President and Chief Executive Officer
affirms, under penalties of perjury, that this Certificate of Designations is
the act and deed of the Company and that the facts stated herein are true, this
17th day of March, 2011.  

WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY  

By            /s/
John G. Stumpf                               

  John
G. Stumpf  

  i)                             
  Chairman, President and   

  ii)                           
  Chief Executive Officer  

Attest:  

/s/
Jeannine E. Zahn                                            

  Jeannine
E. Zahn  

  Assistant
Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
March 17, 2011.]  

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

  ___________________________________  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  

  Pursuant to Section 151 of the  

  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware  

  ___________________________________  

2012 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

  (Without Par Value)  

  ___________________________________  

WELLS FARGO  
COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority
conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the
provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as
amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of
Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to
authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the
 ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation
Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by the
resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly
adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000 and
February 24, 2009, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of
the ESOP Committee duly adopted on January 9, 2012, in accordance with Section
141(f) of the General Corporation Law:  

1.         On
January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board
Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP
Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions,
in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock
( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan
hereinafter referred to:   

134   

RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board
of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock
Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full
powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time
one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company
common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred
Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers,
preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP
Preferred Stock, to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms
and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its
discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First
Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate.  

2.         Pursuant
to resolutions adopted on February 24, 2009, the Board designated John G.
Stumpf as the sole member of the ESOP Committee, effective April 29, 2009.  

3.         On January 9, 2012, pursuant to authority
conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP
Committee adopted the following resolutions by written consent in accordance
with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:  

RESOLVED that the
issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is
hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and
relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set
forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended,
are hereby fixed as follows:  

2012 ESOP CUMULATIVE
CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

1.     Designation
and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue   .   

(a) The
designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for
herein shall be  2012 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter
referred to as the  2012 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized
shares constituting the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock is 940,000, based on an
offering price for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,094.00 per share.  Each
share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per
share.  The number of authorized shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock may be
reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities
Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction
has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares
of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding
number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized
shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the
2012 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company
shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and
may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock.  

(b)  Shares
of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee )
acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor
to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which
the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with
respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of record ownership of
shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor
trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred,
upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder
thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par
value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms
otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4
hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers,
preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed
to shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers
and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a conversion, the
transferee of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all
purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the
date of such transfer.  Shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated
or uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates representing shares
of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing
provisions.  In the case of      

135   

uncertificated 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall
note the foregoing provisions on each 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry
account.  The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record
ownership of any uncertificated 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed
transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock
are subject to the foregoing provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in
paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of
Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of
Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder
thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon
the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof.  

              2.     Voting
Rights   .  No shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights
except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as
set forth in this Section 2, as follows:  

(a)  Whenever,
at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the
aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares
of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as
a class with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred
Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, either
as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution
or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual
meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders. 
At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders
of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity being
entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock
held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such
holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically
be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of
the holders of such outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock (together
with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock
ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred
and are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such holders of such
shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the
holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on
such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are
exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until
such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to
such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or
by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every
subsequent default of the character above mentioned.  

(b)  Upon
any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock
entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all
directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall
terminate immediately.  If the office of any director elected by such holders
voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement,
disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected
by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such
successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such
vacancy occurred.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such
holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in
such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of
directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the
Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this
resolution.  

(c)  So
long as any shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent
of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and
outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity
with such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to dividends or the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon
which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of
at least two-thirds of all such outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock
and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in
person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting
called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any
one or more of the following:  

(i)  the
authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or   

136   

(ii)  the
amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise,
of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the
resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations designating shares of
2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating,
optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and
restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right,
preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the
amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other
series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares
of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or
junior to the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment
of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights,
preferences, privileges or voting powers.  

(d)  The
foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when
the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be
effected, all outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been
redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such
redemption.  

3.            Dividends   .  (a)(i) 
Holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive,
when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out
of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend
of $100.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be
subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3.  

(ii)  The
Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2013 and on each December 1 thereafter until
December 1, 2021, as follows:    

(1)  If
the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock
on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if
November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment
Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than
the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash
dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $105.00 per
share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).    

(2)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the
next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year
listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the
Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend
for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $110.00 per share
(the  Second Adjusted Dividend ).  

(3)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next
preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed
in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price
shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately
following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend.  

   32)                 

33)                 
     Dividend Adjustment
Table    

137   

(4)  As
an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above,
if on November 30, 2013, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock
is $30.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve
month period per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $105.00, with
the first quarterly payment of such $105.00 dividend to be made on March 1,
2014.  If on November 30, 2014, the Current Market Price of one share of Common
Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following
twelve month period per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $110.00,
with the first quarterly payment of such $110.00 dividend to be made on March
1, 2015.  If on November 30, 2015, the Current Market Price of one share
of Common Stock is $30.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock would
equal $100.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $100.00 dividend to be
made on March 1, 2016.  

(5)  For
purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second
Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the
term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section
4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in
Section 4(c)(vi).  

(iii)  If
one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table
shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of
shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up,
combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon
shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target
Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each
subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted.  

(iv)  Dividends
payable on shares of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are
equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable
quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year,
commencing March 1, 2012.  Dividends on shares of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock
will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of
record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates,
not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates
thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee
thereof.  The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period
shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted
Dividend, whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for the
initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall
be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve
30-day months.  

(b)(i)  No
full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock
of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been
or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for
the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the
date of payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid
in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and any
other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to
dividends with 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the
amount of dividends declared per share on 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and such
other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same
ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other.  Holders of
shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend,
whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative
dividends, as herein provided, on 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock.  No interest, or
sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend
payment or payments on 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears.  

(ii)  So
long as any shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend
(other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants,
or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other
stock ranking junior to 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon
liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3)
shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution
declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company
ranking junior to or on a parity with 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends
or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of      

138   

the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed,
purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid
to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any
such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of
the Company ranking junior to 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon
liquidation), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all
outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or
declared and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment period
and all past dividend payment periods.  

4.     Conversion   .  Shares
of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter
pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that
number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of
each share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion
Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii)
of this Section 4), as follows:  

(a)  Each
share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the
Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted,
without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date
such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable
shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.  

(b)  Subject
to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of
business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5
or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock
held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of
Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   

(c)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:   

(i)  The
 Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be
deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common
Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day
occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is
defined in Section 6(d) hereof).  

(ii)  A
 Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which
state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are
not required to be open.  

(iii)  (A)  For
purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant
Release Date.  

(B)  For
purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the
Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4)
is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock
designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.   

(C)  For
purposes of a conversion of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of
Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d)
hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.   

Each share of 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of
computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of
Common Stock into which the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be
converted.    

139   

(iv)  The
 Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other
class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for
any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no
sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked
prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New
York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the
Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to
trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of
the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations
System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market
System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the
over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for
the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ,
the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New
York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock
selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such
quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as
determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market
in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee
thereof.  

                                      (v)   Common
Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the
date of this Certificate of Designations or as such stock may be constituted
from time to time.  

(vi) 
 Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is
listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another
national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or
such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the
Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which
trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any
Business Day.  

                          (d) 
In connection with any conversion of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this
Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be
delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of
the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices
in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to
time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock by
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, which
notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of
2012 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly
assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly executed
stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares
of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4.  Each
Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the
Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph
(b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock being
converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name
or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common
Stock and, in the case of certificated 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any
shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y)
the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new
certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information
as the Company or its agents may reasonably request.  

(e)  Upon
delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock
of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required
to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, 
the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class
mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at
the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the
number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon
conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates
representing shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be
converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s
designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate
or certificates representing the number of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock
which shall not have been converted.  

                          (f)  The
issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares
of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section
4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of
2012 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of
the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as      

140   

of
the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the
certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion
thereof or (B) the commencement of business on the second Business Day after
the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates
required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section
4.  On and after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons
entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be
treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of
Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of
dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to
such effective date.  The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends
which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders
of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are
paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares.  

                          (g)  The
Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any
conversion of such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may
make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.  

                          (h)  The
Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and
unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of
2012 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights,
such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable
upon the conversion of all the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock then
outstanding.  

                          (i)  The
Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common
Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock
prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange,
if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such
delivery.  

                          (j)  The
Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer
taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on
conversions of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be
payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares
of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made
unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the
Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of
the Company, that such tax has been paid.  

                          5.     Redemption
At the Option of the Company   .  (a)  The 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the
Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to
all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and
(y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this
Section 5) per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for
redemption.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in cash
or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph
(c) of this Section 5.  From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends
on shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to
accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease,
except the right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the
redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the
Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full
cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set
aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, the
Company may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5.  

                          (b)  Unless
otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5
will be sent to the holders of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown
on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by
first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may
be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the
redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii)
the total number of shares of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and,
if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number
of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price;
(iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common
Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of
certificated 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates
for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi)
that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such
redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed,
the period within which conversion rights may be      

141   

exercised
and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon
conversion of a share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined.  The
Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously
converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set
forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price
until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly
endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company
shall so require and the notice shall so state).  

                          (c)  The
Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon
redemption of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of
Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such
shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market
Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current
Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the
greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock then being redeemed.  

                          (d)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

                                      (i)   Adjustment
Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding
the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.  

                                      (ii)   Fair
Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of
capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are
publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or
securities for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of
any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date
as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as
determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced
in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the
Board or a committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of
paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined
by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance
with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the
2012 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5)
or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a
redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market
Value of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume
(i) that all dividends on the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid
when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to
Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal
(together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of
the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2012 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about January 12, 2012
between the Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications
thereto).  

              6.     Consolidation,
Merger, etc.     (a)  If the Company consummates any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the
outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for
or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or
resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying
employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock
within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable,
for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such
consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall
become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in
respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences
and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the
redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications,
limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock had
immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following:  

                          (1)  After
such transaction each share of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4
hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so
receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior
to such transaction.  

142   

(2)  The
Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar
transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as
aforesaid.  

                          (b)  If
the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business
combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by
operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other
stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof,
other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying
employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and
cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares
of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the
Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this
Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger,
consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation
into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of
2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same
terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged
for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable
in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock
into which such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted
immediately prior to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure
of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election
with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such
transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the
2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall,
by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of
Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock,
securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of
the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction
if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to
the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon
such transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other
property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing
share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property
receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind
and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares.  

                          (c)  In
the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph
(b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as
soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business
Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and
the material terms thereof to each holder of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and each
such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to
receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is
consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption
and retirement of such 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of
2012 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued
and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or
(y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the
last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately
preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated.  No such notice of
redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of
business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction,
unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior
notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be
withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of
business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction.  

(d)  In
the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and
shall be continuing, each holder of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the
right to convert shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common
Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until
the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because
the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has
expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company
not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates
(the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor
of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so
given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to
the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.  

For purposes
of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
below:  

143   

(i) 
 Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall
have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange
Act.  

(ii)  A
 Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company
or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is
defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer
to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer,
such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to
acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting
power of the Company.  

7.     Liquidation
Rights   .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
Company, the holders of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available
for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall
be made on the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus
a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares
accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution.  

(b)  Neither
the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company,
nor the merger or consolidation of the Company into or with any other
corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or
with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding
up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7.  

(c)  After
the payment to the holders of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the
remaining assets of the Company.  

(d)  In
the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders
of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or
winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be
insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made
on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other
capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2012 ESOP
Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless
proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts
for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such
dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.  

(e)  Subject
to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of
stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation,
dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made
in full to the holders of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided
in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes
of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock upon
liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any)
applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be
paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall not be entitled to share therein.  

8.     Ranking   .  For
the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes
of the Company shall be deemed to rank:  

(a)  prior
to the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be
entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon
dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in
preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock;  

(b)  on
a parity with shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or
upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or
redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any,
be different from those of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such
stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable
upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the      

144   

case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend
rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the
other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2012
ESOP Preferred Stock; and  

(c)  junior
to shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of
2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of
amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares
of such series or class or classes.  

9.     Priority
of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock   .  The shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred
Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2003 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock, its 2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2006
ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2007 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, its 2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and its 2011 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.    

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designations to be
signed by John G. Stumpf, its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer,
and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, whereby such
President and Chief Executive Officer affirms, under penalties of perjury, that
this Certificate of Designations is the act and deed of the Company and that
the facts stated herein are true, this 10th day of January, 2012.  

WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY  

By            /s/
John G. Stumpf                                      

  John
G. Stumpf  

  i)                             
  Chairman, President and   

  ii)                           
  Chief Executive Officer  

Attest:  

/s/
Jeannine E. Zahn                                            

  Jeannine
E. Zahn  

  Assistant
Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
January 10, 2012.]  

  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

  _____________________  

  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
General Corporation Law 
of the State of Delaware 
_____________________  

  NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK,
SERIES N 
(Without Par Value)  

  _____________________  

                          WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Delaware (the     Corporation    ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant
to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the     Board
of Directors    ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of      

145   

Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which
authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock,
without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities
Committee of the Board of Directors (the     Committee    ) in accordance with
Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware
(the     General Corporation Law    ), the following resolutions were duly
adopted by the Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the
Committee duly adopted on August 14, 2012, in accordance with
Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:  

Resolved,     that pursuant to the authority vested in the
Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors
dated January 27, 2009, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of
Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and
that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and
other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional
or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof,
of the shares of such series, are as follows:  

RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES   

Section 1.        Designation   . 
The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Non-Cumulative
Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series N, with no par value and a
liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share  (the     Series N Preferred
Stock    ).  Each share of Series N Preferred Stock shall be identical in
all respects to every other share of Series N Preferred Stock except with
respect to the date from which dividends may accrue. Series N Preferred
Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with respect to the payment of
dividends and distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of
dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.   

Section 2.        Number
of Shares   .  The number of authorized shares of Series N Preferred
Stock shall be 30,000.  Such number may from time to time be increased
(but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock)
or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series N Preferred Stock
then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors
of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors
of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the
provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or
decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation
shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series N Preferred
Stock.   

   Section 3.        Definitions   .  As used herein with respect to Series N
Preferred Stock:   

      Business Day     means any day, other than a
Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking
institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New
York, New York.   

      Certificate of Designation     means this Certificate
of Designation relating to the Series N Preferred Stock, as it may be amended
from time to time.  

    Common Stock    
means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as
the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock
may be constituted from time to time.  

      Depositary Company     has the meaning set forth
in Section 6(d) hereof.   

    Dividend Payment Date     has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.   

      Dividend Period     has the meaning set forth in
Section 4(a) hereof.  

146   

DTC     means The
Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.   

     Junior Stock    
means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the
Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series N
Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in
the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   

      Liquidation Preference     has the meaning set
forth in Section 5(a) hereof.  

      Nonpayment Event     shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 7(b).  

      Parity Stock     means any other class or series
of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on
par with the Series N Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such
dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in
the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding
up of the affairs of the Corporation.  

      Preference Stock     means any and all series of
preference stock, having no par value, of the Corporation.    

      Preferred Stock     means any and all series of
preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series
N Preferred Stock.  

      Preferred Stock Directors     shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 7(b).  

      Regulatory Capital Treatment Event     means the
Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment
to, or change (including any announced prospective change) in, the laws or
regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the
United States that is enacted or becomes effective after the initial issuance
of any shares of Series N Preferred Stock; (ii) proposed change in those laws
or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial
issuance of any shares of Series N Preferred Stock; or (iii) official
administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other
official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that
is announced after the initial issuance of any shares of Series N Preferred
Stock, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not
be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of all shares of
Series N Preferred Stock then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent)
for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the
appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as
long as any share of Series N Preferred Stock is outstanding.  

      Series N Preferred Stock     has the meaning set
forth in Section 1 hereof.   

  iii)                                                                                         
      Voting Parity Stock     means
any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series N Preferred Stock.   

  iv)                                                                                         

Section 4.        Dividends.

(a)        Rate   . 
Dividends on the Series N Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of
Series N Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared
by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally
available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference
amount of $25,000 per share of the Series N Preferred Stock, payable quarterly
in arrears on the 15th day of March, June, September and December       of
each year       (commencing on December 15, 2012);    provided   ,    however   ,
if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise
payable on that date will be made on the      

147   

next
succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in
respect of such delay (each such day on which dividends are payable a     Dividend
Payment Date    ).  A     Dividend Period     means the period from, and
including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding
Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be
the period from, and including, August 16, 2012 to, but excluding, December 15,
2012.  Dividends on each share of Series N Preferred Stock will accrue at a
rate    per annum    equal to 5.20%.  The record date for payment of
dividends on the Series N Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the
calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend
Payment Date falls or such other date as determined by the Corporation s Board
of Directors.  The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis
of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  Dollar amounts resulting from
that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded
upward.  

   (b)       Non-Cumulative Dividends   .  Dividends on shares of Series N Preferred
Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable
on the shares of Series N Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not
declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not
cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall
have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall
have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the
Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or
interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared
for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series N Preferred Stock or
any other series of authorized Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common
Stock of the Corporation.   

   (c)        Priority of Dividends   .  So long as any shares of Series N Preferred
Stock remain outstanding,   

(1)                
  no dividend shall be declared and
paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or
set aside for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall
be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the
Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made
available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the
Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the
acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application
of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock);   

(2)                
  no dividend shall be declared and
paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or
set aside for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no
shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed
or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or
indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking
fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the
Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior
Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder
rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan,
(iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights
where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants,
options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is
being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a
reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other
Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other
than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the
use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of
Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior
Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of
its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans
or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting
arrangements) adopted before or after August 9, 2012, (viii) any purchase of
fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant
to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock other than Common
Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of
Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any
other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof
or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common      

148   

Stock
by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in
connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the
ordinary course of business); and  

(3)                
  no shares of Parity Stock will be
repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the
Corporation otherwise than pursuant to pro rata offers to purchase all, or a
pro rata portion, of the Series N Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during
a Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity
Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or
conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity
Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially
contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any
purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of
the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director
incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance
or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after August 9, 2012, (v) any
purchase of fractional interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the
conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being
converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo
Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with
the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo
Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with
market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of
business),   

unless,
in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all
outstanding shares of the Series N Preferred Stock have been declared and paid
or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been
set aside.  

Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any
shares of Series N Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be
declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period
unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series N Preferred Stock for
the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum
sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the
Corporation declares dividends on the Series N Preferred Stock and on any
Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the
Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among
the holders of shares of Series N Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity
Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar
dividend rights.    

Subject to the
foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise)
as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly
authorized committee of the board of Directors of the Corporation may be
declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity Stock
or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available for such
payment, and the shares of Series N Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to
participate in any such dividends.  

   Section 5.        Liquidation Rights.    

   (a)        Liquidation   .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation,
holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of
assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution
or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for
the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the
rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking
senior to the Series N Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating
distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any
dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of
any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the     Liquidation
Preference    ).  The holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.   

149   

(b)       Partial
Payment   .  If the assets of the
Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all
holders of Series N Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the
amounts paid to the holders of Series N Preferred Stock and to the holders of
all Parity Stock shall be    pro rata    in accordance with the respective
aggregate liquidation preference of Series N Preferred Stock and all such
Parity Stock.    

   (c)        Residual Distributions   .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in
full to all holders of Series N Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid
in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Common Stock and any
other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the
Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.   

   (d)       Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not
Liquidation   .  For purposes of
this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of
stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the
property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business
combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation
or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination
transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be
deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up
of the affairs of the Corporation.   

   Section 6.        Redemption.   

   (a)        Optional Redemption   .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of
Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation, may redeem, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve
Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares
of Series N Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any
Dividend Payment Date on or after September 15, 2017, upon notice given as
provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series
N Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any
dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption date
without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.   

  Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90
days of the Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital
Treatment Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of
Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation, may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking
agency, redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in
part, the shares of Series N Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to
September 15, 2017, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The
redemption price for shares of Series N Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per
share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not
paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.   

   (b)       Notice of Redemption   .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series
N Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their
respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the
Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70
days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided
in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such
notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any
holder of shares of Series N Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other
shares of Series N Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the
redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series N Preferred Stock to be
redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be
redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such
holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the
certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the
redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will
cease      

150   

to accrue on the redemption date. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series N Preferred Stock is held in
book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner
permitted by DTC.    

   (c)        Partial Redemption   .  In case of any redemption of only part of the
shares of Series N Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of
Series N Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either    pro rata   
from the holders of record of Series N Preferred Stock in proportion to the
number of Series N Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner
as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and
equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of
Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Series N Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from
time to time.   

   (d)       Effectiveness of Redemption   .  If notice of redemption has been duly given
and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds
necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set aside by the
Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the    pro
rata    benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to
be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with
a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation
or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the     Depositary
Company    ) in trust for the    pro rata    benefit of the holders of the
shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for
any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation,
on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall
cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease
to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such
shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only
the right of the holders  thereof to receive the amount payable on such
redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption date
from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be
entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any
interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for
redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so
deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall,
to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after
which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only
to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.   

   Section 7.        Voting Rights.    

   (a)        General.     The holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or
as required by applicable law.  

   (b)       Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment
Events.     Whenever dividends payable
on any shares of Series N Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting
Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to,
as to any class or series, at least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent,
whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a     Nonpayment Event    ),
the holders of the outstanding Series N Preferred Stock, voting together as a
class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable,
will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors of the
Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next annual meeting of
stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the     Preferred
Stock Directors    ) by a plurality of the votes cast;    provided    that
the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock
Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the
holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to
like voting rights).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the
maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall
automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be
filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding Series N Preferred Stock
(together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting
Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the Series N
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for each share held (the holders
of shares of any other series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such
number of votes, if any, for      

151   

each share of such stock
as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series N Preferred
Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more
other series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock Directors shall
continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full dividends for the
equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, at
which time such right with respect to the Series N Preferred Stock shall
terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to revesting in the event of
each and every subsequent default of the character described in this Section
7(b).  

  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of
all shares of Series N Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for
Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors
then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate
immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without
cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series N
Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights
described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur
among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality
of the votes cast by the holders of Series N Preferred Stock and Voting Parity
Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class,
unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall
each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before
the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the
directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special
voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this Section 7(b) shall
have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided
for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to this Section
7(b).  

   (c)     Other Voting Rights   .  In addition to any other vote required by law or
the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series
N Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the
outstanding shares of Series N Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all
other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote
of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series N Preferred
Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person
or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for
the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more
of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware
law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference
Stock ranking senior to the Series N Preferred Stock in the payment of
dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any
amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the Bylaws that
would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of
the Series N Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or
Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares
of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series N Preferred Stock with
respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in
the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification
involving the Series N Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with
another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series N Preferred
Stock will have no right to vote under this section 7(c)(iv) if in each case
(a) the shares of Series N Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case
of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is
not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for
preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate
parent, and (b) such shares of Series N Preferred Stock remaining outstanding
or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not
materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences,
privileges and voting powers of the Series N Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;
   provided, however   , that any authorization, creation or increase in the
authorized amount of or issuance of the Series N Preferred Stock or any Parity
Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of
Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are
cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely
affect      

152   

the rights, preferences, privileges or voting
powers of the Series N Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series N Preferred
Stock shall have no right to vote thereon.  

  If
any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified
in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of
voting Preferred Stock (including the Series N Preferred Stock), then only
those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the
matter together as a  class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).  

  Each
holder of the Series N Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any
matter on which holders of the Series N Preferred Stock are entitled to vote,
whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the
Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being
entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be
granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written
consent.   

  (1)           
   (d)       Changes after
Provision for Redemption.     No vote or
consent of the holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant
to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any
such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all
outstanding Series N Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of
redemption has been given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably
deposited in trust to effect such redemption.  

(e)
       Procedures for Voting and Consents.    The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the
holders of Series N Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing
of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies
at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any
rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time,
which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national
securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series N Preferred
Stock is listed or traded at the time.   

   Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion   .  The holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall not
have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series N Preferred
Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.   

   Section 9.        Reacquired Shares   .  Shares of Series N Preferred Stock which have been
issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall
be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock
without designation as to series.   

   Section 10.      No Sinking Fund   .  Shares of Series N Preferred Stock are not subject
to the operation of a sinking fund.   

   Section 11.      Additional Classes or Series of Stock   .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the
contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized
committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of
the holders of the Series N Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional
shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the
holders of the Series N Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote
thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred
Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series N Preferred Stock as to the
payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.  

153   

In
Witness Whereof, Wells Fargo   Company     has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S.
Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn,
its Assistant Secretary, this 14 th  day of August, 2012.  

Wells
  Fargo   Company    

By   :   

/s/ Barbara S. Brett  

Barbara S. Brett, Senior
  Vice President and Assistant Treasurer   

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                                
Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
August 15, 2012.]  

   WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

  _____________________  

   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
   Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
General Corporation Law 
of the State of Delaware 
_____________________  

   NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK,
SERIES O 
(Without Par Value)   

  _____________________  

                          WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Delaware (the     Corporation    ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant
to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the     Board
of Directors    ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of
not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and
pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of
Directors (the     Committee    ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of
the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the     General
Corporation Law    ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the
Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly
adopted on November 16, 2012, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the
General Corporation Law:  

Resolved,     that pursuant to the authority vested in the
Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors
dated January 27, 2009, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of
Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and
that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and
other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional
or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof,
of the shares of such series, are as follows:  

RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES   

Section 1.        Designation   . 
The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Non-Cumulative
Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series O, with no par value and a
liquidation preference amount      

154   

of $25,000 per share 
(the     Series O Preferred Stock    ).  Each share of Series O Preferred
Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series O
Preferred Stock except with respect to the date from which dividends may
accrue. Series O Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with
respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in the event of
any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
affairs of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to
the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs
of the Corporation.   

Section 2.        Number
of Shares   .  The number of authorized shares of Series O Preferred
Stock shall be 27,600.  Such number may from time to time be increased
(but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock)
or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series O Preferred Stock
then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors
of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors
of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the
provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or
decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation
shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series O Preferred
Stock.   

   Section 3.        Definitions   .  As used herein with respect to Series O
Preferred Stock:   

      Business Day     means any day, other than a
Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking
institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New
York, New York.   

      Certificate of Designation     means this
Certificate of Designation relating to the Series O Preferred Stock, as it may
be amended from time to time.  

    Common Stock    
means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as
the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock
may be constituted from time to time.  

      Depositary Company     has the meaning set forth
in Section 6(d) hereof.   

    Dividend Payment Date     has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.   

      Dividend Period     has the meaning set forth in
Section 4(a) hereof.  

      DTC     means The Depository Trust Company,
together with its successors and assigns.   

     Junior Stock    
means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the
Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series O
Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in
the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   

      Liquidation Preference     has the meaning set
forth in Section 5(a) hereof.  

      Nonpayment Event     shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 7(b).  

      Parity Stock     means any other class or series
of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on
par with the Series O Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such
dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in
the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding
up of the affairs of the Corporation.  

155   

Preference Stock    
means any and all series of preference stock, having no par value, of the
Corporation.    

      Preferred Stock     means any and all series of
preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series
O Preferred Stock.  

      Preferred Stock Directors     shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 7(b).  

      Regulatory Capital Treatment Event     means the
Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment
to, clarification of, or change (including any announced prospective change) in,
the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or
in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective on or after November
13, 2012; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced
or becomes effective on or after November 13, 2012; or (iii) official
administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other
official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that
is announced on or after November 13, 2012, there is more than an insubstantial
risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation
preference amount of all shares of Series O Preferred Stock then outstanding as
Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy
guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal banking agency, as then in
effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series O Preferred Stock is
outstanding.  

      Series O Preferred Stock     has the meaning set
forth in Section 1 hereof.   

  v)                                                                                           
      Voting Parity Stock     means
any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series O Preferred Stock.  

vi)                           Section 4.        Dividends.    

   (a)        Rate   . 
Dividends on the Series O Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of
Series O Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared
by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally
available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference
amount of $25,000 per share of the Series O Preferred Stock, payable quarterly
in arrears on the 15th day of March, June, September and December       of
each year       (commencing on March 15, 2013);    provided   ,    however   ,
if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise
payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business
Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such
day on which dividends are payable a     Dividend Payment Date    ).  A     Dividend
Period     means the period from, and including, a Dividend Payment Date to,
but excluding, the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date, except for the
initial Dividend Period, which will be the period from, and including, November
20, 2012 to, but excluding, March 15, 2013.  Dividends on each share of Series
O Preferred Stock will accrue at a rate    per annum    equal to 5.125%. 
The record date for payment of dividends on the Series O Preferred Stock shall
be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month
during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other date as determined
by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  The amount of dividends payable shall
be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 
Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest
cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward.  

   (b)       Non-Cumulative Dividends   .  Dividends on shares of Series O Preferred
Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable
on the shares of Series O Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not
declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not
cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall
have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall
have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the
Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or
interest with respect to      

156   

such dividends, whether or
not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to
Series O Preferred Stock or any other series of authorized Preferred Stock,
Preference Stock, or Common Stock of the Corporation.   

   (c)        Priority of Dividends   .  So long as any shares of Series O Preferred
Stock remain outstanding,   

(1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set
aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside
for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be
repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the
Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made
available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the
Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the
acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application
of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock);   

(2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set
aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside
for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of
Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or
otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or
indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking
fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the
Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior
Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder
rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan,
(iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights
where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants,
options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is
being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a
reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other
Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other
than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the
use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of
Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior
Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of
its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans
or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting
arrangements) adopted before or after November 13, 2012, (viii) any purchase of
fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant
to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock other than Common
Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of
Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any
other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof
or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo
Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with
market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of
business); and  

(3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased,
redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise
than pursuant to    pro rata    offers to purchase all, or a    pro rata   
portion, of the Series O Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a
Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity
Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or
conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity
Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially
contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any
purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of
the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director
incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance
or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after November 13, 2012, (v) any
purchase of fractional interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the
conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being
converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo
Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with
the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo
Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with
market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of
business),   

157   

unless, in each case, the full dividends for the
then-current Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of the Series O
Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient
for the payment of those dividends has been set aside.  

Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as
any shares of Series O Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall
be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period
unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series O Preferred Stock for
the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum
sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the
Corporation declares dividends on the Series O Preferred Stock and on any
Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the
Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among
the holders of shares of Series O Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity
Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar
dividend rights.    

Subject to the
foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or
otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or
any duly authorized committee of the board of Directors of the Corporation may
be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity
Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available
for such payment, and the shares of Series O Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to participate in any such dividends.  

Section 5.        Liquidation Rights.    

   (a)        Liquidation   .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation,
holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of
assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution
or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for
the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the
rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking
senior to the Series O Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating
distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any
dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of
any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the     Liquidation
Preference    ).  The holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.   

   (b)       Partial Payment   .  If the assets of the Corporation are not
sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series O
Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the
holders of Series O Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock
shall be    pro rata    in accordance with the respective aggregate
liquidation preference of Series O Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.    

   (c)        Residual Distributions   .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in
full to all holders of Series O Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid
in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Common Stock and any
other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the
Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.   

   (d)       Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not
Liquidation   .  For purposes of
this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of
stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the
property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business
combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation
or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination
transaction of any other corporation or person into      

158   

or
with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution,
liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   

   Section 6.        Redemption.   

   (a)        Optional Redemption   .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of
Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation, may redeem, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve
Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares
of Series O Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any
Dividend Payment Date on or after December 15, 2017, upon notice given as
provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series
O Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends
that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption date without
accumulation of any undeclared dividends.   

  Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the
Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment
Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or
any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation,
may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem
out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares
of Series O Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to December 15,
2017, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption
price for shares of Series O Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an
amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without
accumulation of any undeclared dividends.   

   (b)       Notice of Redemption   .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series
O Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their
respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the
Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70
days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided
in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such
notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any
holder of shares of Series O Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other
shares of Series O Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the
redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series O Preferred Stock to be
redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be
redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such
holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the
certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the
redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will
cease to accrue on the redemption date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
the Series O Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the
Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.    

   (c)        Partial Redemption   .  In case of any redemption of only part of the
shares of Series O Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of
Series O Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either    pro rata   
from the holders of record of Series O Preferred Stock in proportion to the
number of Series O Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner
as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and
equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of
Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Series O Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from
time to time.   

   (d)       Effectiveness of Redemption   .  If notice of redemption has been duly given
and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds
necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set aside by the
Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the    pro
rata    benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to
be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with
a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation
or any duly      

159   

authorized committee of the Board of
Directors (the     Depositary Company    ) in trust for the    pro rata   
benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then,
notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has
not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all
shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends
with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date,
and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption
date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders  thereof to
receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Depository Company at
any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without
interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to
time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the
holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such
interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years
from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or
repaid to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called
for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption
price of such shares.   

   Section 7.        Voting Rights.    

   (a)        General.     The holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or
as required by applicable law.  

   (b)       Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment
Events.     Whenever dividends payable
on any shares of Series O Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting
Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to,
as to any class or series, at least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their
equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a     Nonpayment
Event    ), the holders of the outstanding Series O Preferred Stock, voting
together as a class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are
exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional
directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next
annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of
stockholders (the     Preferred Stock Directors    ) by a plurality of the
votes cast;    provided    that the Board of Directors shall at no time
include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of
this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity
Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  Upon the vesting
of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the
Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two
vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding
Series O Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or
more other series of Voting Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors,
each holder of the Series O Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for
each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity
Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such
stock as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series O
Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any
one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock
Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full
dividends for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods or
their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series O
Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to
revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character
described in this Section 7(b).  

  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of
all shares of Series O Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for
Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors
then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate
immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without
cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series O
Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights
described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur
among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality
of the votes cast by the holders of Series O Preferred Stock and Voting Parity
Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class,
unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall
each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before
the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the
directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall      

160   

end
and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this
Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number
as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant
to this Section 7(b).  

   (c)     Other Voting Rights   .  In addition to any other vote required by law or
the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series
O Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the
outstanding shares of Series O Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all
other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote
of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series O Preferred
Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person
or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for
the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more
of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware
law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference
Stock ranking senior to the Series O Preferred Stock in the payment of
dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any
amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the Bylaws that
would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of
the Series O Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or
Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares
of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series O Preferred Stock with
respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in
the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification
involving the Series O Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with
another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series O Preferred
Stock will have no right to vote under this section 7(c)(iv) if in each case
(a) the shares of Series O Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case
of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is
not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for
preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate
parent, and (b) such shares of Series O Preferred Stock remaining outstanding
or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not
materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences,
privileges and voting powers of the Series O Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;
   provided, however   , that any authorization, creation or increase in the
authorized amount of or issuance of the Series O Preferred Stock or any Parity
Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of
Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are
cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely
affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series O Preferred
Stock, and holders of the Series O Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote
thereon.  

  If
any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation
specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all
series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series O Preferred Stock), then
only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on
the matter together as a  class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred
Stock).  

Each
holder of the Series O Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any
matter on which holders of the Series O Preferred Stock are entitled to vote,
whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the
Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being
entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be
granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written
consent.   

  (1)           
   (d)       Changes after
Provision for Redemption.     No vote or
consent of the holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant
to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any
such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all      

161   

outstanding Series O Preferred Stock shall have been
redeemed, or notice of redemption has been given and sufficient funds shall
have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption.  

(e)
       Procedures for Voting and Consents.    The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the
holders of Series O Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing
of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies
at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any
rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time,
which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national
securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series O Preferred
Stock is listed or traded at the time.   

   Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion   .  The holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall not
have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series O Preferred
Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.   

   Section 9.        Reacquired Shares   .  Shares of Series O Preferred Stock which have been
issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall
be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock
without designation as to series.   

   Section 10.      No Sinking Fund   .  Shares of Series O Preferred Stock are not subject
to the operation of a sinking fund.   

   Section 11.      Additional Classes or Series of Stock   .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the
contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized
committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of
the holders of the Series O Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional
shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the
holders of the Series O Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote
thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred
Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series O Preferred Stock as to the
payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.  

  dms.us.51005459.05  

In Witness Whereof, Wells
Fargo   Company     has caused this
Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice
President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant
Secretary, this 19 th  day of November, 2012.  

Wells
  Fargo   Company    

By   :   

/s/ Barbara S. Brett  

Barbara S. Brett, Senior
  Vice President and Assistant Treasurer   

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                               
Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary  

162   

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
November 19, 2012.]  

  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

  ___________________________________  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION  

  Pursuant to Section 151 of the  

  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware  

  ___________________________________  

2013 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

  (Without Par Value)  

  ___________________________________  

WELLS FARGO  
COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority
conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the
provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as
amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of
Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to
authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the
 ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation
Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by the
resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly
adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000,
January 27, 2009, and February 24, 2009, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to
the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on January 7, 2013, in
accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:  

1.         On
January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolution (the  ESOP Board
Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP
Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions,
in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock
( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan
hereinafter referred to:   

RESOLVED
that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed
by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ),
which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to
these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP
Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1 2/3 par
value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection
therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other
rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell
such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such
purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to
take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or
appropriate.  

2.         On
January 27, 2009, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  January
2009 Resolutions ) amending the ESOP Board Resolutions to allow the ESOP
Committee to establish the voting rights of any series of ESOP Preferred Stock:  

RESOLVED that the resolution set forth in the [ESOP
Board Resolutions] under the caption  Voting Rights of ESOP Preferred Stock  is
hereby deleted in its entirety.  

163   

RESOLVED that the [ESOP
Board Resolutions] are hereby further amended to delete  Appendix A   Voting
Rights  in its entirety.  

3.         Pursuant to resolutions adopted on February
24, 2009, the Board designated John G. Stumpf as the sole member of the ESOP
Committee, effective April 29, 2009.  

4.         On January 7, 2013, pursuant to authority
conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions as amended by the
January 2009 Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolution
by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation
Law:  

RESOLVED that the
issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is
hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and
relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set
forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended,
are hereby fixed as follows:  

2013 ESOP CUMULATIVE
CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

1.     Designation
and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue   .   

(a) The
designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for
herein shall be  2013 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter
referred to as the  2013 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized
shares constituting the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock is 1,200,000, based on an
offering price for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,090.00 per share.  Each
share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per
share.  The number of authorized shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock may be
reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities
Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction
has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares
of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding
number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized
shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the
2013 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company
shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and
may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock.  

(b)  Shares
of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee )
acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor
to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which
the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with
respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of record ownership of
shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor
trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred,
upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder
thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par
value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms
otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4
hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers,
preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed
to shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers
and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a conversion, the
transferee of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all
purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the
date of such transfer.  Shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated
or uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates representing shares
of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall      

164   

bear a legend to
reflect the foregoing provisions.  In the case of uncertificated 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall
note the foregoing provisions on each 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry
account.  The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record
ownership of any uncertificated 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed
transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
are subject to the foregoing provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in
paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of
Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of
Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder
thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon
the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof.  

              2.     Voting
Rights   .  No shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights
except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as
set forth in this Section 2, as follows:  

(a)  Whenever,
at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the
aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares
of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as
a class with holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity
Stock, as defined in paragraph (e) of this Section 2,whose voting rights are
exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company s Board at the Company s
next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of
stockholders (the  Preferred Stock Directors ) by a plurality of the votes
cast; provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than
two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all
directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to
elect pursuant to like voting rights).  At elections for such directors, each
holder of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote
for each share held (the holders of shares of any series of Voting Parity Stock
being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred
Stock held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such
holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall
automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be
filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting
Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The
right of such holders of such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting
together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more series of
Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable) to elect Preferred
Stock Directors as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends
accumulated on such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in
full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided,
subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the
character above mentioned.  

(b)  Upon
any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote for Preferred Stock
Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office
elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any
Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the
holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above
(voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the
Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the
votes cast by the holders of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock
having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless
the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each
be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the
Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors
elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting
powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have
expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in
the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the
provisions of this Section 2(b).  

165   

(c)  In addition to
any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so
long as any shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or
consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
and outstanding shares of all series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on
the matter, by a vote of at least two-thirds in voting power of all such
outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and such series of Voting
Parity Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in
writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be
necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following
whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law:  

(i)  the
authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2013
ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets on the Company s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up, or   

(ii)  the
amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise,
of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the
resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designation designating shares of
2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences, powers and relative,
participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications,
limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely
affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2013
ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any
increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and
issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of
authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a
parity with or junior to the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect
to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely
affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers.  

(d)  The
foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when
the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be
effected, all outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been
redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to
effect such redemption.  

(e) 
As used in this Section 2,  Voting Parity Stock  means any other class or
series of stock of the Company now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks
on par with the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether
such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of
assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up of the affairs of the Company and having similar voting rights as
the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock.  

3.            Dividends   .  (a)(i) 
Holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive,
when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out
of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend
of $85.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject
to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3.  

(ii)  The
Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2014 and on each December 1 thereafter until
December 1, 2021, as follows:    

(1)  If
the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock
on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if
November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment
Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than
the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash
dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $90.00 per
share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).    

166   

(2)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the
next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year
listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the
Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend
for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $95.00 per share
(the  Second Adjusted Dividend ).  

(3)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next
preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed
in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price
shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately
following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend.  

167   

Dividend Adjustment
Table    

(4)  As
an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above,
if on November 30, 2014, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock
is $37.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve
month period per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $90.00, with
the first quarterly payment of such $90.00 dividend to be made on March 1,
2015.  If on November 30, 2015, the Current Market Price of one share of Common
Stock is $45.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following
twelve month period per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $95.00,
with the first quarterly payment of such $95.00 dividend to be made on March 1,
2016.  If on November 30, 2016, the Current Market Price of one share of
Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock would
equal $85.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $85.00 dividend to be
made on March 1, 2017.  

(5)  For
purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second
Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the
term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section
4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in
Section 4(c)(vi).  

(iii)  If
one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table
shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of
shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up,
combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon
shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target
Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each
subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted.  

(iv)  Dividends
payable on shares of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are
equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable
quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year,
commencing March 1, 2013.  Dividends on shares of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2013
ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of
record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates,
not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof,
as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof.  The
amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be
computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted Dividend,
whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial
dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be
calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve
30-day months.  

(b)(i)  No
full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock
of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2013
ESOP Preferred Stock for any period      

168   

unless full
cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared
and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set apart for such
payment on shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods
terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative
dividends.  When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares
of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on
a parity as to dividends with 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared
upon shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred
Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall
be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2013
ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all
cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the
shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock
bear to each other.  Holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not
be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in
excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in
respect of any dividend payment or payments on 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock which
may be in arrears.  

(ii)  So
long as any shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend
(other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants,
or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other
stock ranking junior to 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon
liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3)
shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution
declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company
ranking junior to or on a parity with 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends
or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of
the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as
to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up be redeemed,
purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid
to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any
such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of
the Company ranking junior to 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up), unless, in each case, the full
cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current
dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods.  

4.     Conversion   .  Shares
of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter
pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that
number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of
each share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion
Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii)
of this Section 4), as follows:  

(a)  Each
share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the
Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted,
without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date
such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable
shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2013
ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.  

(b)  Subject
to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2013
ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of
business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5
or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of
Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   

(c)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
below:   

169   

(i)  The
 Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be
deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common
Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day
occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is
defined in Section 6(d) hereof).  

(ii)  A
 Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which
state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are
not required to be open.  

(iii)  (A)  For
purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant
Release Date.  

(B)  For
purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the
Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4)
is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.   

(C)  For
purposes of a conversion of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of
Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d)
hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.   

Each share of 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes
of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of
Common Stock into which the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be
converted.    

(iv)  The
 Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other
class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for
any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no
sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked
prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New
York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the
Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to
trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of
the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations
System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market
System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter
market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock
on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ, the average of
the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock
Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for
such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such quotations are
available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New
York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock
selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof.  

                                      (v)   Common
Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the
date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted
from time to time.  

(vi) 
 Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is
listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another
national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or
such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if      

170   

the Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System
of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or
(z) otherwise, any Business Day.  

                          (d) 
In connection with any conversion of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this
Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be
delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of
the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices
in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to
time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock by
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, which
Conversion Notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2013
ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares
of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly
assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly
executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated
2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for
the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this
Section 4.  Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a
mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of
shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of
the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion
hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or
certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so
converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to
be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z)
such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request.  

(e)  Upon
delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required
to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, 
the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class
mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at
the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the
number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon
conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates
representing shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be
converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s
designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate
or certificates representing the number of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
which shall not have been converted.  

                          (f)  The
issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares
of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this
Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of
shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section
4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of
such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of
(A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates
representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B)
the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to
effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and
after the effective date of a conversion, the person or persons entitled to
receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all
purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no
allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to
holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. 
The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have
accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2013
ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or
after the effective date of conversion of such shares.  

171   

(g)  The Company
shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock any
fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any conversion of such
shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment
in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.  

                          (h)  The
Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and
unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of
2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights,
such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable
upon the conversion of all the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock then
outstanding.  

                          (i)  The
Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common
Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange,
if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such
delivery.  

                          (j)  The
Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer
taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on
conversions of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be
payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares
of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made
unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the
Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of
the Company, that such tax has been paid.  

                          5.     Redemption
At the Option of the Company   .  (a)  The 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be redeemable out of assets legally available therefor,
in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption
price per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x)
$1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends
thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as
that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption.  Payment of the redemption
price shall be made by the Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a
combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5.  From and
after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue and all rights in respect of
such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the
redemption price.  Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be
deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be retired as provided in
paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full cumulative dividends have not been
paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all
outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not redeem
fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to
this Section 5.  

                          (b)  Unless
otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5
will be sent to the holders of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown
on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by
first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may
be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the
redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii)
the total number of shares of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and,
if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number
of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price;
(iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common
Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of
certificated 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates
for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi)
that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such
redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed,
the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which
the number of shares of Common Stock issuable      

172   

upon
conversion of a share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined.  The
Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously
converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set
forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price
until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly
endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company
shall so require and the notice shall so state).  

                          (c)  The
Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon
redemption of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of
Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such
shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market
Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current
Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2013
ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the
greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock then being redeemed.  

                          (d)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

                                      (i)   Adjustment
Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding
the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.  

                                      (ii)   Fair
Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of
capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are
publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or
securities for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of
any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date
as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as
determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced
in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the
Board or a committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of
paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined
by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance
with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the
2013 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5)
or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a redemption
under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the
2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all
dividends on the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due, and
(ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock held
by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would
have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued interest
thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the
terms of that certain 2013 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Note
Agreement dated on or about January 10, 2013 between the Company and the Plan
(including any amendments or modifications thereto).  

              6.     Consolidation,
Merger, etc.     (a)  If the Company consummates any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the
outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for
or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or
resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying
employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable,
for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation,
merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become
Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect
of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences and      

173   

relative, participating, optional or other special
rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof),
and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the
following:  

                          (1)  After
such transaction each share of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4
hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so
receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior
to such transaction.  

                          (2)  The
Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar
transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as
aforesaid.  

                          (b)  If
the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business
combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by
operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other
stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof,
other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying
employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and
cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares
of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the
Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this
Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger,
consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation
into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2013 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of
2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same
terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged
for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable
in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock
into which such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted
immediately prior to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure
of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election
with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such
transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the
2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall,
by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of
Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock,
securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of
the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such
holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind
or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such
transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other
property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing
share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property
receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind
and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares.  

                          (c)  In
the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph
(b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as
soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business
Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and
the material terms thereof to each holder of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and each
such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to
receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is
consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption
and retirement of such 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of
2013 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued
and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or
(y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the
last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately
preceding the date the Business Combination is      

174   

consummated.
 No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company
prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation
of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall
waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such
time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the
close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such
transaction.  

(d)  In
the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and
shall be continuing, each holder of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the
right to convert shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common
Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until
the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because
the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has
expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company
not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates
(the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor
of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so
given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to
the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.  

For
purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

(i) 
 Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person 
shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the
Exchange Act.  

(ii)  A
 Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company
or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is
defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer
to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer,
such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to
acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting
power of the Company.  

7.     Liquidation
Rights   .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
Company, the holders of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available
for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall
be made on or set aside for the Common Stock or any other class of stock
ranking junior to 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and subject to the rights of the
holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on
parity with or senior to the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the amount of $1,000.00
per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or
declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final
distribution.  

(b)  Neither
the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company,
nor the merger, consolidation or other business combination of the Company into
or with any other corporation, nor the merger, consolidation or other business
combination of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed
to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for
the purposes of this Section 7.  

(c)  After
the payment to the holders of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2013
ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the
remaining assets of the Company.  

(d)  In
the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders
of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or
winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be
insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made
on account of any shares of any      

175   

other series of
Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with
the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or
winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account
of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full
distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are
respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.  

(e)  Subject
to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of
stock ranking on parity with or prior to the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation,
dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made
in full to the holders of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided
in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes
of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock upon
liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any)
applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be
paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall not be entitled to share therein.  

8.     Ranking   .  For
the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes
of the Company shall be deemed to rank:  

(a)  prior
to the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if the holders of such series or class
or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts
distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as
the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2013
ESOP Preferred Stock;  

(b)  on
a parity with shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether or not the dividend rates,
dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or
sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of
dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding
up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective
dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over
the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of
2013 ESOP Preferred Stock; and  

(c)  junior
to shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if such class shall be Common Stock or
if the holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to
receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation,
or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to
the holders of shares of such series or class or classes.  

9.     Priority
of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock   .  The shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred
Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2004 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, its 2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2007 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock, its 2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2011
ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, and its 2012 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock.    

176   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this
Certificate of Designation to be signed by John G. Stumpf, its Chairman,
President and Chief Executive Officer, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its
Assistant Secretary, on this 9th day of January, 2013.  

WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY  

By            /s/
John G. Stumpf                              

  John
G. Stumpf  

  Chairman, President and   

  Chief Executive Officer  

Attest:  

/s/
Jeannine E. Zahn                                           

  Jeannine
E. Zahn  

  Assistant
Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
January 9, 2013.]  

   WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

  _____________________  

   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
   Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
General Corporation Law 
of the State of Delaware 
_____________________  

   NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK,
SERIES P 
(Without Par Value)   

  _____________________  

                          WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Delaware (the     Corporation    ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant
to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the     Board
of Directors    ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of
not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and
pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of
Directors (the     Committee    ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of
the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the     General
Corporation Law    ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the
Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly
adopted on March 19, 2013, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the
General Corporation Law:  

Resolved,     that pursuant to the authority vested in the
Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors
dated January 27, 2009, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of
Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and
that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the      

177   

voting and other powers, designations, preferences and
relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications,
limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as
follows:  

RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES   

Section 1.        Designation   . 
The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Non-Cumulative
Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series P, with no par value and a
liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share  (the     Series P Preferred
Stock    ).  Each share of Series P Preferred Stock shall be identical in
all respects to every other share of Series P Preferred Stock except with
respect to the date from which dividends may accrue. Series P Preferred
Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with respect to the payment of
dividends and distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of
dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.   

Section 2.        Number
of Shares   .  The number of authorized shares of Series P Preferred
Stock shall be 26,400.  Such number may from time to time be increased
(but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock)
or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series P Preferred Stock
then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors
of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors
of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the
provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or
decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation
shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series P Preferred
Stock.   

   Section 3.        Definitions   .  As used herein with respect to Series P
Preferred Stock:   

      Business Day     means any day, other than a
Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking
institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New
York, New York.   

      Certificate of Designation     means this
Certificate of Designation relating to the Series P Preferred Stock, as it may
be amended from time to time.  

    Common Stock    
means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as
the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock
may be constituted from time to time.  

      Depositary Company     has the meaning set forth
in Section 6(d) hereof.   

                  Dividend
Payment Date     has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.   

      Dividend Period     has the meaning set forth in
Section 4(a) hereof.  

      DTC     means The Depository Trust Company,
together with its successors and assigns.   

     Junior Stock    
means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the
Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series P
Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in
the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   

      Liquidation Preference     has the meaning set
forth in Section 5(a) hereof.  

      Nonpayment Event     shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 7(b).  

178   

Parity Stock    
means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or
hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the Series P Preferred Stock in the
payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative)
or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  

      Preference Stock     means any and all series of
preference stock, having no par value, of the Corporation.    

      Preferred Stock     means any and all series of
preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series
P Preferred Stock.  

      Preferred Stock Directors     shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 7(b).  

      Regulatory Capital Treatment Event     means the
Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment
to, clarification of, or change (including any announced prospective change) in,
the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or
in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective on or after March 15,
2013; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or
becomes effective on or after March 15, 2013; or (iii) official administrative
decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official
pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is
announced on or after March 15, 2013, there is more than an insubstantial risk
that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation
preference amount of all shares of Series P Preferred Stock then outstanding as
Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines
or regulations of the appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and
applicable, for as long as any share of Series P Preferred Stock is
outstanding.  

      Series P Preferred Stock     has the meaning set
forth in Section 1 hereof.   

      Voting Parity Stock     means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as
the Series P Preferred Stock.  

                 Section
4.        Dividends.    

   (a)        Rate   . 
Dividends on the Series P Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of
Series P Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared
by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally
available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference
amount of $25,000 per share of the Series P Preferred Stock, payable quarterly
in arrears on the 15th day of March, June, September and December       of
each year       (commencing on June 15, 2013);    provided   ,    however   ,
if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise
payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business
Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such
day on which dividends are payable a     Dividend Payment Date    ).  A     Dividend
Period     means the period from, and including, a Dividend Payment Date to,
but excluding, the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date, except for the
initial Dividend Period, which will be the period from, and including, March
22, 2013 to, but excluding, June 15, 2013.  Dividends on each share of Series P
Preferred Stock will accrue at a rate    per annum    equal to 5.25%. 
The record date for payment of dividends on the Series P Preferred Stock shall
be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month
during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other date as determined
by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  The amount of dividends payable shall
be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 
Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest
cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward.  

179   

(b)       Non-Cumulative
Dividends   .  Dividends on shares
of Series P Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that
any dividends payable on the shares of Series P Preferred Stock on any Dividend
Payment Date are not declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such
dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the
Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series P
Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such
Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any
time in the future or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not
dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to
Series P Preferred Stock or any other series of authorized Preferred Stock,
Preference Stock, or Common Stock of the Corporation.   

   (c)        Priority of Dividends   .  So long as any shares of Series P Preferred
Stock remain outstanding,   

  (1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set
aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside
for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be
repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the
Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made
available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the
Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the
acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application
of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock);   

  (2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set
aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside
for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of
Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or
otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or
indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking
fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the
Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior
Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder
rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan,
(iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights
where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants,
options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is
being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a
reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other
Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other
than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the
use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of
Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior
Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of
its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans
or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting
arrangements) adopted before or after March 15, 2013, (viii) any purchase of
fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant
to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock other than Common
Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of
Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any
other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof
or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo
Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with
market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of
business); and  

  (3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased,
redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise
than pursuant to    pro rata    offers to purchase all, or a    pro rata   
portion, of the Series P Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a
Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity
Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or
conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity
Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially
contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any
purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of
the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director
incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance
or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after March 15, 2013, (v) any
purchase of fractional      

180   

interests in shares of Parity
Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or
the securities being converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock
by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in
connection with the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock
by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in
connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the
ordinary course of business), unless, in each case, the full dividends for the
then-current Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of the Series P
Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient
for the payment of those dividends has been set aside.  

    Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as
any shares of Series P Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall
be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period
unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series P Preferred Stock for
the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum
sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the
Corporation declares dividends on the Series P Preferred Stock and on any
Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the
Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among
the holders of shares of Series P Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity
Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar
dividend rights.    

              Subject
to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or
otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or
any duly authorized committee of the board of Directors of the Corporation may
be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity
Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available
for such payment, and the shares of Series P Preferred Stock shall not be entitled
to participate in any such dividends.  

   Section 5.        Liquidation Rights.    

   (a)        Liquidation   .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation,
holders of Series P Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of
assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution
or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for
the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the
rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking
senior to the Series P Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating
distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any
dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of
any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the     Liquidation
Preference    ).  The holders of Series P Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.   

   (b)       Partial Payment   .  If the assets of the Corporation are not
sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series P
Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the
holders of Series P Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock
shall be    pro rata    in accordance with the respective aggregate
liquidation preference of Series P Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.    

   (c)        Residual Distributions   .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in
full to all holders of Series P Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid
in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Common Stock and any
other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the
Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.   

   (d)       Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not
Liquidation   .  For purposes of
this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of
stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the
property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or
involuntary      

181   

dissolution, liquidation or winding up of
the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any
other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any
other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business
combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the
Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation
or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   

   Section 6.        Redemption.   

   (a)        Optional Redemption   .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of
Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation, may redeem, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve
Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares
of Series P Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any
Dividend Payment Date on or after June 15, 2018, upon notice given as provided
in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series P
Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any
dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption date
without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.   

  Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90
days of the Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital
Treatment Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of
Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation, may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking
agency, redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in
part, the shares of Series P Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to
June 15, 2018, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The
redemption price for shares of Series P Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per
share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not
paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.   

   (b)       Notice of Redemption   .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series
P Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their
respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the
Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70
days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided
in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such
notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any
holder of shares of Series P Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other
shares of Series P Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the
redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series P Preferred Stock to be
redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be
redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such
holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the
certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the
redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will
cease to accrue on the redemption date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
the Series P Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the
Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.    

   (c)        Partial Redemption   .  In case of any redemption of only part of the
shares of Series P Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of
Series P Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either    pro rata   
from the holders of record of Series P Preferred Stock in proportion to the
number of Series P Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner
as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and
equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of
Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of
Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and
conditions upon which shares of Series P Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from
time to time.   

   (d)       Effectiveness of Redemption   .  If notice of redemption has been duly given
and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds
necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set      

182   

aside
by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the    pro
rata    benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to
be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with
a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation
or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the     Depositary
Company    ) in trust for the    pro rata    benefit of the holders of the
shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for
any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation,
on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall
cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease
to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such
shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only
the right of the holders  thereof to receive the amount payable on such
redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption date
from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be
entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any
interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for
redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so
deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall,
to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after
which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only
to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.   

   Section 7.        Voting Rights.    

   (a)        General.     The holders of Series P Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or
as required by applicable law.  

   (b)       Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment
Events.     Whenever dividends payable
on any shares of Series P Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting
Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to,
as to any class or series, at least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their
equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a     Nonpayment
Event    ), the holders of the outstanding Series P Preferred Stock, voting
together as a class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are
exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional
directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next
annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of
stockholders (the     Preferred Stock Directors    ) by a plurality of the
votes cast;    provided    that the Board of Directors shall at no time
include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of
this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity
Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  Upon the vesting
of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the
Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two
vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding
Series P Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or
more other series of Voting Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors,
each holder of the Series P Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for
each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity
Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such
stock as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series P
Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any
one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock
Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full
dividends for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods or
their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series P
Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to
revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character
described in this Section 7(b).  

  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of
all shares of Series P Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for
Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors
then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate
immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without
cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series P
Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights
described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur
among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality
of the votes cast by the holders of Series P Preferred Stock and Voting Parity
Stock having the voting      

183   

rights described above,
voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The
Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on
any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever
the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class
shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in
this Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such
number as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made
pursuant to this Section 7(b).  

   (c)     Other Voting Rights   .  In addition to any other vote required by law or
the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series
P Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the
outstanding shares of Series P Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all
other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote
of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series P Preferred
Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person
or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for
the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more
of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware
law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference
Stock ranking senior to the Series P Preferred Stock in the payment of
dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any
amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the Bylaws that
would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of
the Series P Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or
Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares
of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series P Preferred Stock with
respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in
the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification
involving the Series P Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with
another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series P Preferred
Stock will have no right to vote under this section 7(c)(iv) if in each case
(a) the shares of Series P Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case
of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is
not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for
preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent,
and (b) such shares of Series P Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such
preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences,
privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less
favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and
voting powers of the Series P Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;    provided,
however   , that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized
amount of or issuance of the Series P Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock or
Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity
Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative
or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the
rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series P Preferred
Stock, and holders of the Series P Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote
thereon.  

  If
any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation
specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all
series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series P Preferred Stock), then
only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on
the matter together as a class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred
Stock).  

  Each
holder of the Series P Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any
matter on which holders of the Series P Preferred Stock are entitled to vote,
whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the
Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being
entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be
granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written
consent.   

184   

(d)       Changes
after Provision for Redemption   .  No
vote or consent of the holders of Series P Preferred Stock shall be required
pursuant to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time
when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such
Section, all outstanding Series P Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or
notice of redemption has been given and sufficient funds shall have been
irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption.  

   (e)
       Procedures for Voting and Consents.    The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the
holders of Series P Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing
of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies
at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any
rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time,
which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national
securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series P Preferred
Stock is listed or traded at the time.   

   Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion   .  The holders of Series P Preferred Stock shall not
have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series P Preferred
Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.   

   Section 9.        Reacquired Shares   .  Shares of Series P Preferred Stock which have been
issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall
be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock
without designation as to series.   

   Section 10.      No Sinking Fund   .  Shares of Series P Preferred Stock are not subject
to the operation of a sinking fund.   

   Section 11.      Additional Classes or Series of Stock   .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the
contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized
committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of
the holders of the Series P Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional
shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the
holders of the Series P Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote
thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred
Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series P Preferred Stock as to the
payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.  

                            In
Witness Whereof, Wells Fargo   Company     has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S.
Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn,
its Assistant Secretary, this 21 st  day of March, 2013.  

Wells
  Fargo   Company    

By:  

/s/ Barbara S. Brett  

Barbara S. Brett, Senior
  Vice President and Assistant Treasurer  

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                                
Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary  

185   

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
March 21, 2013.]  

   WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

  _____________________  

   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
   Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
General Corporation Law 
of the State of Delaware 
_____________________  

   5.85% FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL  
CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES Q 
(Without Par Value)   

  _____________________  

                          WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Delaware (the     Corporation    ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant
to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the     Board
of Directors    ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of
not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and
pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of
Directors (the     Committee    ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of
the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the     General
Corporation Law    ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the
Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly
adopted on July 19, 2013, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General
Corporation Law:  

Resolved,     that pursuant to the authority vested in the
Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors
dated January 27, 2009, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of
Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and
that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and
other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional
or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof,
of the shares of such series, are as follows:  

RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES   

Section 1.        Designation   . 
The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated 5.85%
Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series
Q, with no par value and a liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share
(the     Series Q Preferred Stock    ).  Each share of Series Q Preferred
Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series Q
Preferred Stock except with respect to the date from which dividends may
accrue. Series Q Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with
respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in the event of
any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
affairs of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to
the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs
of the Corporation.   

Section 2.        Number
of Shares   .  The number of authorized shares of Series Q Preferred
Stock shall be 69,000.  Such number may from time to time be increased
(but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock)
or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series Q Preferred Stock
then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors
of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors
of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the
provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or
decrease, as the case      

186   

may be, has been so
authorized.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional
shares of Series Q Preferred Stock.   

   Section 3.        Definitions   .  As used herein with respect to Series Q
Preferred Stock:   

      Business Day     means for dividends payable for
the Fixed Rate Period (as defined below) any day, other than a Saturday or
Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions
are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York,
and for dividends payable for the Floating Rate Period (as defined below), it
means any date that would be considered a Business Day during the Fixed Rate
Period that is also a London Banking Day (as defined below).  

      Calculation Agent            means Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. or any other successor appointed by the Corporation, acting as
Calculation Agent.  

      Certificate of Designation     means this
Certificate of Designation relating to the Series Q Preferred Stock, as it may
be amended from time to time.  

    Common Stock    
means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as
the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock
may be constituted from time to time.  

      Depositary Company     has the meaning set forth
in Section 6(d) hereof.   

      Designated LIBOR Page     means the display on
Reuters, or any successor service, on page LIBOR01, or any other page as may
replace that page on that service, for the purpose of displaying the London
interbank rates for U.S. dollars.  

                  Dividend
Payment Date     has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.   

      Dividend Period     has the meaning set forth in
Section 4(a) hereof.  

      DTC     means The Depository Trust Company,
together with its successors and assigns.   

      Fixed Rate Period     has the meaning set forth
in Section 4(a) hereof.  

      Floating Rate Period     has the meaning set
forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  

    Junior Stock    
means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation
now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series Q Preferred Stock
has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution
of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding
up of the affairs of the Corporation.   

      LIBOR Determination Date     means the second
London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of the relevant Dividend
Period.  

      Liquidation Preference     has the meaning set
forth in Section 5(a) hereof.  

      London Banking Day     means any day on which
commercial banks and foreign exchange markets settle payments in London.  

      Nonpayment Event     shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 7(b).  

187   

Parity Stock    
means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter
authorized that ranks on par with the Series Q Preferred Stock in the payment
of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in
the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  

      Preference Stock     means any and all series of
preference stock, having no par value, of the Corporation.    

      Preferred Stock     means any and all series of
preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series
Q Preferred Stock.  

      Preferred Stock Directors     shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 7(b).  

      Regulatory Capital Treatment Event     means the
Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment
to, clarification of, or change (including any announced prospective change)
in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision
of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective on or after
July 15, 2013; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that
is announced or becomes effective on or after July 15, 2013; or (iii)
official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action
or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or
regulations that is announced on or after July 15, 2013, there is more
than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat
the full liquidation preference amount of all shares of Series Q Preferred
Stock then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of
the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal
banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of
Series Q Preferred Stock is outstanding.  

      Series Q Preferred Stock     has the meaning set
forth in Section 1 hereof.   

      Three-month LIBOR     means, for any LIBOR
Determination Date, the arithmetic mean of the offered rates for deposits in
U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the second London Banking
Day immediately following that LIBOR Determination Date that appear on the
Designated LIBOR Page as of 11:00 a.m., London time, on that LIBOR
Determination Date, if at least two offered rates appear on the Designated
LIBOR Page, provided that if the specified Designated LIBOR Page by its terms
provides only for a single rate, that single rate will be used.  If (i) fewer
than two offered rates appear or (ii) no rate appears and the Designated LIBOR
Page by its terms provides only for a single rate, then the Calculation Agent
will request the principal London offices of each of four major banks in the
London interbank market, as selected by the Calculation Agent, to provide the Calculation
Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month
period commencing on the second London Banking Day immediately following that
LIBOR Determination Date to prime banks in the London interbank market at
approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that LIBOR Determination Date and in
a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time.  If at least two quotations are provided,
Three-month LIBOR determined on that LIBOR Determination Date will be the
arithmetic mean of those quotations.  If fewer than two quotations are
provided, Three-month LIBOR will be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at
approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on that LIBOR Determination Date
by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for
loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period and in
a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S.
dollars in that market at that time.  If the banks so selected by the
Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, Three-month LIBOR for
that LIBOR Determination Date will remain Three-month LIBOR for the immediately
preceding Dividend Period or, in the case of the Dividend Period beginning
September 15, 2023, 5.85%.  All percentages used in or resulting from any
calculation of Three-month LIBOR will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest
one hundred-thousandth of a percentages point, with .000005% rounded up to .00001%. 
The determination of Three-month      

188   

LIBOR for each
relevant Dividend Period by the Calculation Agent will (in the absence of
manifest error) be final and binding.  

      Voting Parity Stock     means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as
the Series Q Preferred Stock.  

                 Section
4.        Dividends.    

   (a)        Rate   . 
Dividends on the Series Q Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of
Series Q Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared
by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally
available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference
amount of $25,000 per share of the Series Q Preferred Stock, payable quarterly
in arrears on the 15 th  day of March, June, September and December,
commencing September 15, 2013.  From July 22, 2013 to, but excluding,
September 15, 2023 (the     Fixed Rate Period    ), dividends will accrue at
an annual rate of 5.85%, and from, and including, September 15, 2023 (the     Floating
Rate Period    ), dividends will accrue at an annual rate equal to Three-month
LIBOR plus 3.09%.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any date on or prior to
September 15, 2023 on which dividends otherwise would be payable is not a
Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will
be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest
or other payment in respect of such delay, and if any date after September 15,
2023 on which dividends otherwise would be payable is not a Business Day, then
payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next
succeeding Business Day unless that day falls in the next calendar month, in
which case payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be the
immediately preceding Business Day, and dividends will accrue to the actual
payment date (each such day on which dividends are payable a     Dividend
Payment Date    ).  A     Dividend Period     means the period from, and
including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding
Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be
the period from, and including, July 22, 2013 to, but excluding, September
15, 2013.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series Q Preferred
Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately
preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other
date as determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  The amount of
dividends payable for the Fixed Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of a
360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  The amount of dividends payable for
the Floating Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and
the actual number of days elapsed.  Dollar amounts resulting from that
calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being
rounded upward.  The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate,
and its calculation of the amount of dividends payable for the Floating Rate
Period, will be maintained on file at the Calculation Agent s principal
offices.  

   (b)       Non-Cumulative Dividends   .  Dividends on shares of Series Q Preferred
Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable
on the shares of Series Q Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not
declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not
cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have
no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series Q Preferred Stock shall have no
right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the Dividend
Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or interest
with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any
subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series Q Preferred Stock or any
other series of authorized Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common Stock
of the Corporation.   

   (c)        Priority of Dividends   .  So long as any shares of Series Q Preferred
Stock remain outstanding,   

  (1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set
aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside
for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be      

189   

repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for
consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies
be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such
Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common
Stock or (ii) the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or
through application of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock);   

  (2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set
aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside
for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of
Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or
otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or
indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking
fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the
Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior
Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder
rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan,
(iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights
where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants,
options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is
being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a
reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other
Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other
than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the
use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of
Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior
Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of
its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans
or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting
arrangements) adopted before or after July 15, 2013, (viii) any purchase
of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock
pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock other
than Common Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the
purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities,
LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the
distribution thereof or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common
Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the
Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market
activities in the ordinary course of business); and  

  (3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased,
redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise
than pursuant to    pro rata    offers to purchase all, or a    pro rata   
portion, of the Series Q Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a
Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity
Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or
conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity
Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially
contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any
purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of
the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director
incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance
or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after July 15, 2013, (v) any
purchase of fractional interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the
conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being
converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo
Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with
the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo
Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with
market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of
business),   

  unless,
in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all
outstanding shares of the Series Q Preferred Stock have been declared and paid
or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been
set aside.  

    Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as
any shares of Series Q Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall
be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period
unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series Q Preferred Stock for
the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum
sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the      

190   

Corporation declares dividends on the Series Q Preferred
Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared
dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional
basis among the holders of shares of Series Q Preferred Stock and the holders
of any Parity Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide
similar dividend rights.    

              Subject
to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or
otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or
any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may
be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity
Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available
for such payment, and the shares of Series Q Preferred Stock shall not be entitled
to participate in any such dividends.  

   Section 5.        Liquidation Rights.    

   (a)        Liquidation   .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation,
holders of Series Q Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of
assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution
or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for
the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the
rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking
senior to the Series Q Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating
distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any
dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of
any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the     Liquidation
Preference    ).  The holders of Series Q Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.   

   (b)       Partial Payment   .  If the assets of the Corporation are not
sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series Q
Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the
holders of Series Q Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock
shall be    pro rata    in accordance with the respective aggregate
liquidation preference of Series Q Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.    

   (c)        Residual Distributions   .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in
full to all holders of Series Q Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid
in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Common Stock and any
other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the
Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.   

   (d)       Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not
Liquidation   .  For purposes of
this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of
stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the
property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business
combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation
or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination
transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be
deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up
of the affairs of the Corporation.   

   Section 6.        Redemption.   

   (a)        Optional Redemption   .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of
Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation, may redeem, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve
Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares
of Series Q Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any
Dividend Payment Date on or after September 15,      

191   

2023,
upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price
for shares of Series Q Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an
amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the
redemption date without accumulation       of any undeclared dividends.   

  Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the
Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment
Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or
any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation,
may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem
out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares
of Series Q Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to September 15,
2023, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption
price for shares of Series Q Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an
amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without
accumulation of any undeclared dividends.   

   (b)       Notice of Redemption   .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series
Q Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their
respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the
Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70
days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided
in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such
notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any
holder of shares of Series Q Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other
shares of Series Q Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the
redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series Q Preferred Stock to be
redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be
redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such
holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the
certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the
redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will
cease to accrue on the redemption date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
the Series Q Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the
Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.    

   (c)        Partial Redemption   .  In case of any redemption of only part of the
shares of Series Q Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of
Series Q Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either    pro rata   
from the holders of record of Series Q Preferred Stock in proportion to the
number of Series Q Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner
as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and
equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of
Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors
shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon
which shares of Series Q Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.   

   (d)       Effectiveness of Redemption   .  If notice of redemption has been duly given
and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds
necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set aside by the
Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the    pro
rata    benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to
be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with
a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation
or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the     Depositary
Company    ) in trust for the    pro rata    benefit of the holders of the
shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for
any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation,
on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall
cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease
to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such
shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only
the right of the holders  thereof to receive the amount payable on such
redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption date
from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be
entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any
interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for
redemption shall have no claim to any      

192   

such
interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years
from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or
repaid to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called
for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption
price of such shares.   

   Section 7.        Voting Rights.    

   (a)        General.     The holders of Series Q Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or
as required by applicable law.  

   (b)       Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment
Events.     Whenever dividends payable
on any shares of Series Q Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting
Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to,
as to any class or series, at least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their
equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a     Nonpayment
Event    ), the holders of the outstanding Series Q Preferred Stock, voting
together as a class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are
exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional
directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next
annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of
stockholders (the     Preferred Stock Directors    ) by a plurality of the
votes cast;    provided    that the Board of Directors shall at no time
include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of
this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity
Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  Upon the vesting
of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the
Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two
vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding
Series Q Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or
more other series of Voting Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors,
each holder of the Series Q Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for
each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity
Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such
stock as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series Q
Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any
one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock
Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full
dividends for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods or
their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series Q
Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to
revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character
described in this Section 7(b).  

  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of
all shares of Series Q Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for
Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors
then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate
immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without
cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series Q
Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights
described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur
among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality
of the votes cast by the holders of Series Q Preferred Stock and Voting Parity
Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class,
unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall
each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before
the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the
directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special
voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this Section 7(b) shall
have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided
for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to this Section
7(b).  

   (c)     Other Voting Rights   .  In addition to any other vote required by law or
the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series
Q Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the
outstanding shares of Series Q Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all
other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote
of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series Q Preferred
Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person

193   

or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or
at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or
validate any one or more of the following actions, whether or not such approval
is required by Delaware law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of
Preferred Stock or Preference Stock ranking senior to the Series Q Preferred
Stock in the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of
the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding
up; (ii) any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the
Bylaws that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or
voting powers of the Series Q Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or
alteration of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the
Certificate of Designation, or Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the
authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares
of, any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to
the Series Q Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or
in the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of
a reclassification involving the Series Q Preferred Stock or a merger or
consolidation with another corporation or other entity, except holders of the
Series Q Preferred Stock will have no right to vote under this section 7(c)(iv)
if in each case (a) the shares of Series Q Preferred Stock remain outstanding
or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the
Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or
exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its
ultimate parent, and (b) such shares of Series Q Preferred Stock remaining
outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such
rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not
materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences,
privileges and voting powers of the Series Q Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;
   provided, however   , that any authorization, creation or increase in the
authorized amount of or issuance of the Series Q Preferred Stock or any Parity
Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of
Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are
cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely
affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series Q
Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series Q Preferred Stock shall have no
right to vote thereon.  

  If
any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation
specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all
series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series Q Preferred Stock), then
only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the
matter together as a class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).  

  Each
holder of the Series Q Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any
matter on which holders of the Series Q Preferred Stock are entitled to vote,
whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the
Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being
entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be
granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written
consent.   

   (d)       Changes after Provision for Redemption   .  No vote or consent of the holders of Series Q
Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or
(c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would
otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding Series Q
Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of redemption has been
given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to
effect such redemption.  

   (e)
       Procedures for Voting and Consents.    The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the
holders of Series Q Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing
of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies
at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any
rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time,
which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national
securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series Q Preferred
Stock is listed or traded at the time.   

194   

Section 8.        Preemption
and Conversion   .  The holders of
Series Q Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to
convert such Series Q Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital
stock of the Corporation.   

   Section 9.        Reacquired Shares   .  Shares of Series Q Preferred Stock which have been
issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall
be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock
without designation as to series.   

   Section 10.      No Sinking Fund   .  Shares of Series Q Preferred Stock are not subject
to the operation of a sinking fund.   

   Section 11.      Additional Classes or Series of Stock   .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the
contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized
committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of
the holders of the Series Q Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional
shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the
holders of the Series Q Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote
thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred
Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series Q Preferred Stock as to the
payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.  

195   

In Witness Whereof, Wells Fargo  
Company     has caused this Certificate
of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and
Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, this 19th
day of July, 2013.  

Wells
  Fargo   Company    

By:  

/s/ Barbara S. Brett  

Barbara S. Brett, Senior
  Vice President and Assistant Treasurer  

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                                
Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on July
19, 2013.]  

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY   

  _____________________  

   CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
   Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
General Corporation Law 
of the State of Delaware 
_____________________  

   6.625% FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL
 
CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES R 
(Without Par Value)   

  _____________________  

                          WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Delaware (the     Corporation    ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant
to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the     Board
of Directors    ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of
not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and
pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of
Directors (the     Committee    ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of
the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the     General
Corporation Law    ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee
pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly adopted on
December 11, 2013, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General
Corporation Law:  

Resolved,     that pursuant to the authority vested in the
Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors
dated January 27, 2009, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of
Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and
that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and
other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional
or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof,
of the shares of such series, are as follows:  

196   

RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES   

Section 1.        Designation   . 
The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated 6.625%
Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series
R, with no par value and a liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share
(the     Series R Preferred Stock    ).  Each share of Series R Preferred
Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series R
Preferred Stock except with respect to the date from which dividends may
accrue. Series R Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with
respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in the event of
any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs
of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the
payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs
of the Corporation.   

Section 2.        Number
of Shares   .  The number of authorized shares of Series R Preferred
Stock shall be 34,500.  Such number may from time to time be increased
(but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock)
or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series R Preferred Stock
then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors
of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors
of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the
provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or
decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation
shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series R Preferred Stock.

Section 3.        Definitions   .  As used herein with respect to Series R
Preferred Stock:   

      Business Day     means for dividends payable for
the Fixed Rate Period (as defined below) any day, other than a Saturday or
Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions
are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York,
and for dividends payable for the Floating Rate Period (as defined below), it
means any date that would be considered a Business Day during the Fixed Rate
Period that is also a London Banking Day (as defined below).  

      Calculation Agent            means Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. or any other successor appointed by the Corporation, acting as
Calculation Agent.  

      Certificate of Designation     means this
Certificate of Designation relating to the Series R Preferred Stock, as it may
be amended from time to time.  

    Common Stock    
means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as
the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock
may be constituted from time to time.  

      Depositary Company     has the meaning set forth
in Section 6(d) hereof.   

      Designated LIBOR Page     means the display on
Reuters, or any successor service, on page LIBOR01, or any other page as may
replace that page on that service, for the purpose of displaying the London
interbank rates for U.S. dollars.  

                  Dividend
Payment Date     has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.   

      Dividend Period     has the meaning set forth in
Section 4(a) hereof.  

      DTC     means The Depository Trust Company,
together with its successors and assigns.   

197   

Fixed Rate Period    
has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  

      Floating Rate Period     has the meaning set
forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  

    Junior Stock    
means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the
Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series R
Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in
the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.   

      LIBOR Determination Date     means the second
London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of the relevant Dividend
Period.  

      Liquidation Preference     has the meaning set
forth in Section 5(a) hereof.  

      London Banking Day     means any day on which
commercial banks and foreign exchange markets settle payments in London.  

      Nonpayment Event     shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 7(b).  

      Parity Stock     means any other class or series
of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on
par with the Series R Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such
dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in
the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding
up of the affairs of the Corporation.  

      Preference Stock     means any and all series of
preference stock, having no par value, of the Corporation.    

      Preferred Stock     means any and all series of
preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series
R Preferred Stock.  

      Preferred Stock Directors     shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 7(b).  

      Regulatory Capital Treatment Event     means the
Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment
to, clarification of, or change (including any announced prospective change)
in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision
of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective on or after
December 11, 2013; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that
is announced or becomes effective on or after December 11, 2013; or (iii)
official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action
or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or
regulations that is announced on or after December 11, 2013, there is more than
an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the
full liquidation preference amount of all shares of Series R Preferred Stock
then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the
capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal banking
agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series R
Preferred Stock is outstanding.  

      Series R Preferred Stock     has the meaning set
forth in Section 1 hereof.   

      Three-month LIBOR     means, for any LIBOR
Determination Date, the arithmetic mean of the offered rates for deposits in
U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the second London Banking
Day immediately following that LIBOR Determination Date that appear on the
Designated LIBOR Page as of 11:00 a.m., London time, on that LIBOR
Determination Date, if at least two offered rates appear on the Designated
LIBOR Page, provided that if the specified Designated LIBOR Page by its terms
provides only for a single rate,      

198   

that single rate
will be used.  If (i) fewer than two offered rates appear or (ii) no rate
appears and the Designated LIBOR Page by its terms provides only for a single
rate, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of
each of four major banks in the London interbank market, as selected by the
Calculation Agent, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation
for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the second
London Banking Day immediately following that LIBOR Determination Date to prime
banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time,
on that LIBOR Determination Date and in a principal amount that is
representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that
time.  If at least two quotations are provided, Three-month LIBOR determined on
that LIBOR Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations. 
If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-month LIBOR will be the
arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City
time, on that LIBOR Determination Date by three major banks in New York City
selected by the Calculation Agent for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European
banks for a three-month period and in a principal amount that is representative
of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time.  If the
banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above,
Three-month LIBOR for that LIBOR Determination Date will remain Three-month
LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period or, in the case of the
Dividend Period beginning March 15, 2024, 6.625%.  All percentages used in or
resulting from any calculation of Three-month LIBOR will be rounded, if
necessary, to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentages point, with
..000005% rounded up to .00001%.  The determination of Three-month LIBOR for
each relevant Dividend Period by the Calculation Agent will (in the absence of
manifest error) be final and binding.  

      Voting Parity Stock     means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as
the Series R Preferred Stock.  

                 Section
4.        Dividends.    

   (a)        Rate   . 
Dividends on the Series R Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of
Series R Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared
by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee
of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally
available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference
amount of $25,000 per share of the Series R Preferred Stock, payable quarterly in
arrears on the 15 th  day of March, June, September and December,
commencing March 15, 2014,   From December 18, 2013 to, but excluding, March
15, 2024 (the     Fixed Rate Period    ), dividends will accrue at an annual
rate of 6.625%, and from, and including, March 15, 2024 (the     Floating Rate
Period    ), dividends will accrue at an annual rate equal to Three-month
LIBOR plus 3.69%.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any date on or prior to
March 15, 2024 on which dividends otherwise would be payable is not a Business
Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made
on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or
other payment in respect of such delay, and if any date after March 15, 2024 on
which dividends otherwise would be payable is not a Business Day, then payment
of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next
succeeding Business Day unless that day falls in the next calendar month, in
which case payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be the
immediately preceding Business Day, and dividends will accrue to the actual
payment date (each such day on which dividends are payable a     Dividend
Payment Date    ).  A     Dividend Period     means the period from, and
including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding
Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be
the period from, and including, December 18, 2013 to, but excluding, March 15,
2014.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series R Preferred Stock
shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the
month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other date as
determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  The amount of dividends
payable for the Fixed Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day
year of twelve 30-day months.  The amount of dividends payable for the
Floating Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the
actual number of days elapsed.  Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation
will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half      

199   

cent
being rounded upward.  The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend
rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends payable for the Floating
Rate Period, will be maintained on file at the Calculation Agent s principal
offices.  

   (b)       Non-Cumulative Dividends   .  Dividends on shares of Series R Preferred
Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable
on the shares of Series R Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not
declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not
cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall
have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series R Preferred Stock shall
have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the
Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or
interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared
for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series R Preferred Stock or
any other series of authorized Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common
Stock of the Corporation.   

   (c)        Priority of Dividends   .  So long as any shares of Series R Preferred
Stock remain outstanding,   

  (1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set
aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside
for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be
repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the
Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made
available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the
Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the
acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application
of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock);   

  (2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set
aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside
for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of
Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or
otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or
indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking
fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the
Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior
Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder
rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan,
(iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights
where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants,
options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is
being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a
reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other
Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other
than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the
use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of
Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior
Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of
its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans
or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting
arrangements) adopted before or after December 11, 2013, (viii) any purchase of
fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant
to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock other than Common
Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of
Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any
other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof
or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo
Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with
market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of
business); and  

  (3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased,
redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise
than pursuant to    pro rata    offers to purchase all, or a    pro rata   
portion, of the Series R Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a
Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity
Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or
conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity
Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a      

200   

substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of
Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any purchase, redemption or other
acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its
subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or
arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements)
adopted before or after December 11, 2013, (v) any purchase of fractional
interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange
provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged,
(vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other
affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or
(vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other
affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other
secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business),   

  unless,
in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all
outstanding shares of the Series R Preferred Stock have been declared and paid
or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been
set aside.  

    Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as
any shares of Series R Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall
be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period
unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series R Preferred Stock for
the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum
sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the
Corporation declares dividends on the Series R Preferred Stock and on any
Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the
Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among
the holders of shares of Series R Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity
Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar
dividend rights.    

              Subject
to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or
otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or
any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may
be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity
Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available
for such payment, and the shares of Series R Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to participate in any such dividends.  

   Section 5.        Liquidation Rights.    

   (a)        Liquidation   .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation,
holders of Series R Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of
assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution
or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for
the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the
rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking
senior to the Series R Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating
distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any
dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of
any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the     Liquidation
Preference    ).  The holders of Series R Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.   

   (b)       Partial Payment   .  If the assets of the Corporation are not
sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series R
Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the
holders of Series R Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock
shall be    pro rata    in accordance with the respective aggregate
liquidation preference of Series R Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.    

   (c)        Residual Distributions   .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in
full to all holders of Series R Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid
in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Common Stock and any

201   

other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all
remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and
preferences.   

   (d)       Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not
Liquidation   .  For purposes of
this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of
stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the
property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or
involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business
combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation
or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination
transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be
deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up
of the affairs of the Corporation.   

   Section 6.        Redemption.   

   (a)        Optional Redemption   .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of
Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation, may redeem, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve
Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares
of Series R Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any
Dividend Payment Date on or after March 15, 2024, upon notice given as provided
in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series R
Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any
dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption date
without accumulation       of any undeclared dividends.   

  Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the
Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment
Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or
any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation,
may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem
out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares
of Series R Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to March 15, 2024,
upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for
shares of Series R Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount
equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without
accumulation of any undeclared dividends.   

   (b)       Notice of Redemption   .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series
R Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their
respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the
Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70
days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided
in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given,
whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such
notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any
holder of shares of Series R Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall
not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other
shares of Series R Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the
redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series R Preferred Stock to be
redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be
redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such
holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the
certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the
redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will
cease to accrue on the redemption date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
the Series R Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation
may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.    

   (c)        Partial Redemption   .  In case of any redemption of only part of the
shares of Series R Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of
Series R Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either    pro rata   
from the holders of record of Series R Preferred Stock in proportion to the
number of Series R Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner
consistent with the rules and policies of the New York Stock Exchange as the
Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the
Board of      

202   

Directors of the Corporation may determine
to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6,
the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of
the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the
terms and conditions upon which shares of Series R Preferred Stock shall be
redeemed from time to time.   

   (d)       Effectiveness of Redemption   .  If notice of redemption has been duly given
and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds
necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set aside by the
Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the    pro
rata    benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to
be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with
a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation
or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the     Depositary
Company    ) in trust for the    pro rata    benefit of the holders of the
shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for
any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation,
on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall
cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease
to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such
shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only
the right of the holders  thereof to receive the amount payable on such
redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption date
from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be
entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any
interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for
redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited
and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the
extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which
time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the
Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.   

   Section 7.        Voting Rights.    

   (a)        General.     The holders of Series R Preferred Stock shall not be
entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or
as required by applicable law.  

   (b)       Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment
Events.     Whenever dividends payable
on any shares of Series R Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting
Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to,
as to any class or series, at least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their
equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a     Nonpayment
Event    ), the holders of the outstanding Series R Preferred Stock, voting
together as a class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are
exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional
directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next
annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of
stockholders (the     Preferred Stock Directors    ) by a plurality of the
votes cast;    provided    that the Board of Directors shall at no time
include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of
this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity
Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  Upon the vesting
of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the
Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two
vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding
Series R Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or
more other series of Voting Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors,
each holder of the Series R Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for
each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity
Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such
stock as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series R
Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any
one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock
Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full
dividends for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods or
their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series R
Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to
revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character
described in this Section 7(b).  

203   

Upon any termination of
the right of the holders of all shares of Series R Preferred Stock and Voting
Parity Stock to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all
Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by only those holders voting
as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be
removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the
outstanding shares of Series R Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when
they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In
case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor
may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series R
Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described
above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled.
The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director
on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. 
Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as
a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as
provided in this Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall
be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any
increase made pursuant to this Section 7(b).  

   (c)     Other Voting Rights   .  In addition to any other vote required by law or
the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series
R Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the
outstanding shares of Series R Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all
other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote
of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series R Preferred
Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person
or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for
the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more
of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware
law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference
Stock ranking senior to the Series R Preferred Stock in the payment of
dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any
amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the Bylaws that
would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of
the Series R Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or
Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares
of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the
Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series R Preferred Stock with
respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in
the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification
involving the Series R Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with
another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series R Preferred
Stock will have no right to vote under this section 7(c)(iv) if in each case
(a) the shares of Series R Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case
of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is
not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for
preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate
parent, and (b) such shares of Series R Preferred Stock remaining outstanding
or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights,
preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not
materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences,
privileges and voting powers of the Series R Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;
   provided, however   , that any authorization, creation or increase in the
authorized amount of or issuance of the Series R Preferred Stock or any Parity
Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of
Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are
cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely
affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series R
Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series R Preferred Stock shall have no
right to vote thereon.  

  If
any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation
specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all
series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series R Preferred Stock), then
only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on
the matter together as a class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred
Stock).  

204   

Each holder of the Series R Preferred Stock will have
25 votes per share on any matter on which holders of the Series R Preferred
Stock are entitled to vote, whether separately or together with any other
series of stock of the Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other
series of stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share
of stock as may be granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise,
including by written consent.   

   (d)       Changes after Provision for Redemption   .  No vote or consent of the holders of Series R
Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or
(c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would
otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding Series R
Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of redemption has been
given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect
such redemption.  

   (e)
       Procedures for Voting and Consents.    The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the
holders of Series R Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing
of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies
at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or
matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any
rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time,
which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national
securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series R Preferred
Stock is listed or traded at the time.   

   Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion   .  The holders of Series R Preferred Stock shall not
have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series R Preferred
Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.   

   Section 9.        Reacquired Shares   .  Shares of Series R Preferred Stock which have been
issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall
be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock
without designation as to series.   

   Section 10.      No Sinking Fund   .  Shares of Series R Preferred Stock are not subject
to the operation of a sinking fund.   

   Section 11.      Additional Classes or Series of Stock   .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the
contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized
committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of
the holders of the Series R Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional
shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the
holders of the Series R Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote
thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred
Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series R Preferred Stock as to the
payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Corporation.  

  dms.us.53285252.04  

205   

In Witness Whereof, Wells Fargo  
Company     has caused this Certificate
of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and
Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, this 17 th 
day of December, 2013.  

Wells
  Fargo   Company    

By:  

/s/ Barbara S. Brett  

Barbara S. Brett, Senior
  Vice President and Assistant Treasurer  

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                                                        
Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
December 17, 2013.]  

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY  

  ___________________________________  

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION  

  Pursuant to Section 151 of the  

  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware  

  ___________________________________  

2014 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

  (Without Par Value)  

  ___________________________________  

WELLS FARGO  
COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority
conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the
provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as
amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of
Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to
authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the
 ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation
Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by the
resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly
adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000,
January 27, 2009, and February 24, 2009, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to
the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on January 7, 2014, in
accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law:  

1.         On
January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolution (the  ESOP Board
Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP
Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions,
in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of      

206   

Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee
on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to:   

RESOLVED
that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed
by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ),
which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to
these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP
Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1 2/3 par
value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection
therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other
rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell
such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such
purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to
take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or
appropriate.  

2.         On
January 27, 2009, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  January
2009 Resolutions ) amending the ESOP Board Resolutions to allow the ESOP
Committee to establish the voting rights of any series of ESOP Preferred Stock:  

RESOLVED that the resolution set forth in the [ESOP
Board Resolutions] under the caption  Voting Rights of ESOP Preferred Stock  is
hereby deleted in its entirety.  

RESOLVED that the [ESOP Board Resolutions] are hereby
further amended to delete  Appendix A   Voting Rights  in its entirety.  

3.         Pursuant to resolutions adopted on February
24, 2009, the Board designated John G. Stumpf as the sole member of the ESOP
Committee, effective April 29, 2009.  

4.         On January 7, 2014, pursuant to authority
conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions as amended by the
January 2009 Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolution
by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation
Law:  

RESOLVED that the
issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is
hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and
relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set
forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended,
are hereby fixed as follows:  

2014 ESOP CUMULATIVE
CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK  

1.     Designation
and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue   .   

(a) The
designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for
herein shall be  2014 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter
referred to as the  2014 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized
shares constituting the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock is 1,217,000, based on an
offering price for the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,089.00 per share.  Each
share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per
share.  The number of authorized shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock may be
reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities
Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction
has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares
of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding
number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized
shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the
2014 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company
shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized
but unissued shares of Preferred      

207   

Stock, without
designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of
2014 ESOP Preferred Stock.  

(b)  Shares
of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee )
acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor
to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which the
Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with
respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of record ownership of
shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor
trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred,
upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder
thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par
value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms
otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred
Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4
hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers,
preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed
to shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers
and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a conversion, the
transferee of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all
purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the
date of such transfer.  Shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated
or uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates representing shares
of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions. 
In the case of uncertificated 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for
the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2014
ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account.  The Company may require that, as a
condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares
of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1,
shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of
Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be
converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4
hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be
transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be
redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5
and 6(c) hereof.  

              2.     Voting
Rights   .  No shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights
except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as
set forth in this Section 2, as follows:  

(a)  Whenever,
at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the
aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares
of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as
a class with holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity
Stock, as defined in paragraph (e) of this Section 2,whose voting rights are
exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company s Board at the Company s next
annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of
stockholders (the  Preferred Stock Directors ) by a plurality of the votes
cast; provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than
two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all
directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to
elect pursuant to like voting rights).  At elections for such directors, each
holder of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote
for each share held (the holders of shares of any series of Voting Parity Stock
being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred
Stock held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such
holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall
automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be
filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred
Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting
Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The
right of such holders of such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting
together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or      

208   

more series of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights
are exercisable) to elect Preferred Stock Directors as aforesaid shall continue
until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with
respect to such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as
herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each
and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned.  

(b)  Upon
any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote for Preferred Stock
Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office
elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any
Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the
holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock
and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above
(voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the
Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the
votes cast by the holders of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock
having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless
the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each
be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the
Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors
elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting
powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have
expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in
the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the
provisions of this Section 2(b).  

(c)  In
addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, so long as any shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock remain
outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of
2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all series of Voting Parity
Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least two-thirds in
voting power of all such outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and
such series of Voting Parity Stock voting together as a class, given in person
or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for
the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more
of the following whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law:  

(i)  the
authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or
issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2014
ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution
of assets on the Company s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or
winding up, or   

(ii)  the
amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise,
of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the
resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designation designating shares of
2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences, powers and relative,
participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications,
limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely
affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2014
ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any
increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and
issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of
authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a
parity with or junior to the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect
to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely
affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers.  

(d)  The
foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when
the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be
effected, all outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been
redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to
effect such redemption.  

209   

(e)  As used in this Section
2,  Voting Parity Stock  means any other class or series of stock of the
Company now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the 2014
ESOP Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are
cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of
any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
affairs of the Company and having similar voting rights as the 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock.  

3.            Dividends   .  (a)(i) 
Holders of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive,
when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out
of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend
of $87.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject
to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3.  

(ii)  The
Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2015 and on each December 1 thereafter until
December 1, 2022, as follows:    

(1)  If
the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock
on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if
November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment
Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than
the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash
dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $92.00 per
share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).    

(2)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the
next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year
listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the
Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of
shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend
for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $97.00 per share (the
 Second Adjusted Dividend ).  

(3)  If
the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next
preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed
in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price
shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately
following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend.  

210   

Dividend Adjustment
Table    

(4)  As
an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above,
if on November 30, 2015, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock
is $51.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month
period per share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $92.00, with the
first quarterly payment of such $92.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2016. 
If on November 30, 2016, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock
is $61.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve
month period per share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $97.00, with
the first quarterly payment of such $97.00 dividend to be made on March 1,
2017.  If on November 30, 2017, the Current Market Price of one share of
Common Stock is $55.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately
following twelve month period per share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock would
equal $87.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $87.00 dividend to be
made on March 1, 2018.  

(5)  For
purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second
Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the
term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section
4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in
Section 4(c)(vi).  

(iii)  If
one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table
shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of
shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up,
combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon
shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target
Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each
subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted.  

(iv)  Dividends
payable on shares of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are
equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable
quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year,
commencing March 1, 2014.  Dividends on shares of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock
will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2014
ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of
record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates,
not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof,
as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof.  The
amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be
computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted Dividend,
whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial
dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be
calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve
30-day months.  

211   

(b)(i)  No
full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock
of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2014
ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been
or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for
the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the
date of payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid
in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and any
other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2014
ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred
Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to
dividends with 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the
amount of dividends declared per share on 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and such
other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same
ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred
Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other.  Holders of
shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend,
whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative
dividends, as herein provided, on 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock.  No interest, or
sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend
payment or payments on 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears.  

(ii)  So
long as any shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend
(other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants,
or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other
stock ranking junior to 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon
liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3)
shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution
declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company
ranking junior to or on a parity with 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends
or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of
the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock as
to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up be redeemed,
purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid
to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any
such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of
the Company ranking junior to 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up), unless, in each case, the full
cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current
dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods.  

4.     Conversion   .  Shares
of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter
pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that
number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of
each share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion
Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii)
of this Section 4), as follows:  

(a)  Each
share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the
Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted,
without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date
such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable
shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2014
ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.  

(b)  Subject
to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2014
ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of
business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5
or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock
held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of
Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2014 ESOP Preferred
Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.   

212   

(c)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
below:   

(i)  The
 Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be
deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common
Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day
occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is
defined in Section 6(d) hereof).  

(ii)  A
 Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which
state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are
not required to be open.  

(iii)  (A)  For
purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant
Release Date.  

(B)  For
purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock into
shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the
Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4)
is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2014 ESOP Preferred
Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock
designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.   

(C)  For
purposes of a conversion of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of
Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d)
hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.   

Each share of 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes
of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of
Common Stock into which the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock will be
converted.    

(iv)  The
 Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other
class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for
any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no
sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked
prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New
York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the
Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to
trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of
the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations
System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market
System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter
market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock
on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ, the average of
the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock
Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for
such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such quotations are
available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New
York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock
selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof.  

                                      (v)   Common
Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the
date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted
from time to time.  

213   

(vi)   Trading
Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or
admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national
securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other
national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common Stock is
quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be
made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day.  

                          (d) 
In connection with any conversion of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this
Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be
delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of
the transfer agent for the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices
in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to
time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock by
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, which
Conversion Notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2014
ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares
of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly
assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly
executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated
2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for
the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this
Section 4.  Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a
mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of
shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of
the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion
hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or
certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so
converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to
be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z)
such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request.  

(e)  Upon
delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock
of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required
to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4, 
the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class
mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at
the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the
number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon
conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates
representing shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be
converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s
designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate
or certificates representing the number of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock
which shall not have been converted.  

                          (f)  The
issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares
of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this
Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of
shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section
4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of
such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of
(A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates
representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B)
the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to
the Company or the transfer agent for the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to
effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and
after the effective date of a conversion, the person or persons entitled to
receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all
purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no
allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to
holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. 
The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall      

214   

have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable
to holders of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such
dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such
shares.  

                          (g)  The
Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2014 ESOP Preferred
Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any
conversion of such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may
make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law.  

                          (h)  The
Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and
unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of
2014 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights,
such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable
upon the conversion of all the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock then
outstanding.  

                          (i)  The
Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common
Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock
prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange,
if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such
delivery.  

                          (j)  The
Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer
taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on
conversions of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be
payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares
of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made
unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the
Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of
the Company, that such tax has been paid.  

                          5.     Redemption
At the Option of the Company   .  (a)  The 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock shall be redeemable out of assets legally available therefor,
in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption
price per share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x)
$1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends
thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as
that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption.  Payment of the redemption
price shall be made by the Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a
combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5.  From and
after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred
Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue and all rights in respect of
such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the
redemption price.  Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be
deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be retired as provided in
paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full cumulative dividends have not been
paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all
outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not redeem
fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to
this Section 5.  

                          (b)  Unless
otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5
will be sent to the holders of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown
on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2014 ESOP Preferred
Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by
first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may
be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the
redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii)
the total number of shares of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and,
if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number
of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price;
(iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common
Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of
certificated 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates
for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi)
that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such      

215   

redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the
shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be
exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable
upon conversion of a share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined. 
The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously
converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set
forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price
until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly
endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company
shall so require and the notice shall so state).  

                          (c)  The
Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon
redemption of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of
Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such
shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market
Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current
Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2014
ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the
greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock then being redeemed.  

                          (d)  For
purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

                                      (i)   Adjustment
Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding
the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined.  

                                      (ii)   Fair
Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of
capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are
publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or
securities for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of
any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2014 ESOP Preferred
Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date
as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as
determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced
in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the
Board or a committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of
paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined
by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance
with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the
2014 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5)
or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a
redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market
Value of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume
(i) that all dividends on the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid
when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to
Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal
(together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of
the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2014 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about January 10, 2014
between the Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications
thereto).  

              6.     Consolidation,
Merger, etc.     (a)  If the Company consummates any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the
outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for
or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or
resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying
employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock
within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable,
for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2014
ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such
consolidation, merger or similar      

216   

business
combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor
or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible,
the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other
special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6
hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the
2014 ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to
the following:  

                          (1)  After
such transaction each share of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4
hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so
receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior
to such transaction.  

                          (2)  The
Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar
transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as
aforesaid.  

                          (b)  If
the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business
combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by
operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other
stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof,
other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying
employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and
cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares
of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company
or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this Section 6), be
automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar
transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of
Common Stock into which such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock could have
been converted at such time so that each share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the
holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate
amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind)
receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior
to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure of such
transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with
respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such
transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the
2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall,
by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of
Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock,
securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of
the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2014 ESOP
Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction
if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to
the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon
such transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other
property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing
share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property
receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind
and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares.  

                          (c)  In
the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any
consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph
(b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as
soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business
Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and
the material terms thereof to each holder of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and each
such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to
receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is
consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption
and retirement of such 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of
2014 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued
and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such      

217   

transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of
2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph
(c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business
Combination is consummated.  No such notice of redemption shall be effective
unless given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business
Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the
successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of
redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal
given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day
prior to consummation of such transaction.  

(d)  In
the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and
shall be continuing, each holder of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the
right to convert shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common
Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until
the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because
the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has
expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company
not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates
(the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor
of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so
given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to
the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period.  

For
purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth below:  

(i) 
 Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person 
shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the
Exchange Act.  

(ii)  A
 Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company
or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is
defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer
to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer,
such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to
acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting
power of the Company.  

7.     Liquidation
Rights   .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the
Company, the holders of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available
for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall
be made on or set aside for the Common Stock or any other class of stock
ranking junior to 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and subject to the rights of the
holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on
parity with or senior to the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, the amount of $1,000.00
per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or
declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final
distribution.  

(b)  Neither
the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company,
nor the merger, consolidation or other business combination of the Company into
or with any other corporation, nor the merger, consolidation or other business
combination of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed
to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for
the purposes of this Section 7.  

(c)  After
the payment to the holders of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock of the
full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2014
ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the
remaining assets of the Company.  

(d)  In
the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders
of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or
winding up of the Company, whether      

218   

voluntary or
involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such
holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such
distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of
Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with
the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or
winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account
of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full
distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are
respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up.  

(e)  Subject
to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of
stock ranking on parity with or prior to the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred
Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation,
dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made
in full to the holders of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided
in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes
of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock upon
liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any)
applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be
paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock
shall not be entitled to share therein.  

8.     Ranking   .  For
the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes
of the Company shall be deemed to rank:  

(a)  prior
to the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if the holders of such series or class
or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts
distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as
the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2014
ESOP Preferred Stock;  

(b)  on
a parity with shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether or not the dividend rates,
dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or
sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of 2014 ESOP Preferred
Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of
dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding
up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective
dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over
the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of
2014 ESOP Preferred Stock; and  

(c)  junior
to shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if such class shall be Common Stock or
if the holders of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to
receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation,
or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to
the holders of shares of such series or class or classes.  

9.     Priority
of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock   .  The shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred
Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the
distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2005 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible
Preferred Stock, its 2007 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2008
ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2010 ESOP Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2011 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, its 2012 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, and its 2013 ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.    

219   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this
Certificate of Designation to be signed by John G. Stumpf, its Chairman,
President and Chief Executive Officer, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its
Assistant Secretary, on this 8th day of January, 2014.  

WELLS
FARGO   COMPANY  

By            /s/
John G. Stumpf                              

  John
G. Stumpf  

  Chairman, President and   

  Chief Executive Officer  

Attest:  

/s/
Jeannine E. Zahn                                           

  Jeannine
E. Zahn  

  Assistant
Secretary  

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
January 8, 2014.]  

220   

</EX-3>

<EX-10>
 3
 wfc10k_20131231-ex10q.htm
 EX-10.(Q)

Exhibit 10(q)       

Description of Non-Employee Director Equity
Compensation Program    
(Effective January 1, 2014)   

   Stock
Awards    

Award Value   :    

o  

Each non-employee director
  elected at the Company s annual meeting of stockholders shall automatically
  be granted, as of the date of such meeting, under the Long-Term Incentive
  Compensation Plan (LTICP), an award of Company common stock having an award
  value of $160,000.   

o  

A non-employee director who
  joins the Board effective as of any other date shall automatically be
  granted, as of such other date, under the LTICP, an award of Company common
  stock having an award value based on the full-year award value of $160,000
  prorated to reflect the number of months (rounded up to the next whole month)
  remaining until the next annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however,
  that if the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is not open on the day such
  director joins the Board, the award shall be granted as of the next following
  day on which the NYSE is open.   

Number of Shares Subject
  to Award   : The number of shares of
  Company common stock subject to an award shall be determined by dividing the
  award value by the NYSE-only closing price of Company common stock on the
  date of grant (rounded up to the nearest whole share).   

Vesting   : The stock awards shall vest in full immediately
  upon grant.   

Deferral   : Non-employee directors may elect to defer receipt
  of their stock awards in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
  Company s Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan.   

221   

</EX-10>

<EX-12>
 4
 wfc10k_20131231-ex12a.htm
 EX-12.(A)

262   

</EX-12>

<EX-12>
 5
 wfc10k_20131231-ex12b.htm
 EX-12.(B)

263   

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 6
 wfc10k_20131231-ex13.htm
 EX-13

29   

This
Annual Report, including the Financial Review and the Financial Statements and
related Notes, contains forward-looking statements, which may include forecasts
of our financial results and condition, expectations for our operations and
business, and our assumptions for those forecasts and expectations. Do not
unduly rely on forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially
from our forward-looking statements due to several factors. Factors that could
cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking
statements are described in this Report, including in the  Forward-Looking
Statements          and     
     Risk Factors  sections,
and in the  Regulation and Supervision  section of our Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 (2013 Form 10-K).    

When
we refer to  Wells Fargo,   the Company,   we,   our  or  us  in this
Report, we mean Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries (consolidated).
When we refer to the  Parent,  we mean Wells Fargo   Company. When we
refer to  legacy Wells Fargo,  we mean Wells Fargo excluding Wachovia
Corporation (Wachovia). See
the Glossary of Acronyms at the end of this Report for terms used throughout
this Report.   

Financial Review   

Overview                                                                                                                                                                               

Wells Fargo
  Company is a nationwide, diversified, community-based financial services
company with $1.5 trillion in assets. Founded in 1852 and headquartered in San
Francisco, we provide banking, insurance, investments, mortgage, and consumer
and commercial finance through more than 9,000 locations, 12,000 ATMs
and the Internet (wellsfargo.com), and we have offices in 36 countries to
support our customers who conduct business in the global economy. With more
than 264,000 active, full-time equivalent team members, we serve one in three
households in the United States and rank No. 25 on    Fortune s     2013
rankings of America s largest corporations. We ranked fourth in assets and
first in the market value of our common stock among all U.S. banks at December
31, 2013.      

  Our vision is to satisfy all our
customers  financial needs, help them succeed financially, be recognized as the
premier financial services company in our markets and be one of America s great
companies. Our primary strategy to achieve this vision is to increase the
number of our products our customers utilize and to offer them all of the
financial products that fulfill their needs. Our cross-sell strategy,
diversified business model and the breadth of our geographic reach facilitate
growth in both strong and     weak
economic cycles. We can grow by expanding the number of products our current
customers have with us, gain new customers in our extended markets, and
increase market share in many businesses.  

Financial Performance   

  We
produced another outstanding year of financial results in 2013 and ended the
year as America s most profitable bank. We continued to demonstrate the benefit
of our diversified business model by generating record earnings, growing loans
and deposits, achieving significant improvement in credit quality and rewarding
our shareholders by increasing our dividend and buying back more shares.     Wells
Fargo net income was $21.9 billion in 2013, an increase of 16% compared
with 2012, with record diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $3.89, also up 16%
from the prior year. We achieved 16 consecutive quarters of EPS growth and 11     consecutive
quarters of record EPS. The drivers of our earnings growth during 2013 reflected
the changing economic and interest rate environment. Home affordability
remained str0ng, despite an increase in interest rates and home prices.     As
interest rates rose during 2013, mortgage refinance volume declined compared
with 2012. However, over the same period we had double-digit fee growth in
brokerage, investment banking, cards and mortgage servicing. The economy
maintained its pace of moderate growth with gains in consumer spending,
business investment and employment.      

  Noteworthy items included:      

our
loans increased $26.2 billion, up 3% even with the planned runoff in our
non-strategic/liquidating portfolios, and our core loan portfolio grew by $39.9
billion, up 6%;  

our
deposit franchise continued to generate strong deposit growth, with total
deposits up $76.3 billion, or 8%;  

our
credit performance continued to be strong with total net charge-offs down $4.5
billion, or 50%, from a year ago;  

we
resolved many outstanding issues including the Independent Foreclosure Review
as well as repurchase demands and mortgage-backed securities matters, primarily
involving pre-2009 mortgage loan originations, with government-sponsored
entities;  

we
continued to focus on meeting our customers  financial needs and achieved
record cross-sell across the Company;  

our
return on assets (ROA) increased by 10 basis points to 1.51%, and return on
equity (ROE) increased by 92 basis points to 13.87%;  

we
continued to generate strong capital growth as our estimated Common Equity Tier
I ratio under Basel III increased to 9.78%, above our internal target of 9%;
and  

our      common
stock price increased 33% and we returned $11.4 billion in capital to our
shareholders through an increased common stock dividend and additional share
repurchases (up 33% from 2012).  

Balance Sheet and Liquidity   

  Our balance sheet grew 7% in 2013 to $1.5 trillion, funded largely by
strong deposit growth. These deposits have diluted our net interest margin
(down to 3.39% in 2013 compared with 3.76% in 2012), but provide an opportunity
to generate business through cross-selling efforts in the future. We also have
been able to grow our loans on a year-over-year basis for 10 consecutive quarters,
and for the past     seven
quarters  
  year-over-year loan growth has
been at least 3%, despite the planned runoff from our non-strategic/liquidating
portfolios.  
  Our non-strategic/liquidating
loan portfolios decreased $13.7 billion during the year     (now less than 10% of total loans) and our
core loan portfolios increased $39.9 billion from the prior year.   O  ur federal funds sold, securities purchased under
resale agreements and other short-term investments (collectively referred to as
federal funds sold and other short-term investments elsewhere in this Report) increased
by      

30   

$76.5     billion during the year     on
continued strong growth in interest-earning deposits, and we grew our investment
securities portfolio by $29.2 billion in 2013.      

  While we believe our liquidity position was
already strong with increased regulatory expectations, we have been adding to
our position over the past year. We issued long-term debt and term-deposits at
very low interest rates and most of the proceeds went into cash and federal
funds sold and other short term investments.     Deposit growth remained strong with period-end deposits
up $76.3     billion from 2012. Average deposits have
grown while deposit costs (down 5 basis points from a year ago to 11 basis
points in fourth quarter 2013) have declined for 13     consecutive quarters. We grew our primary consumer
checking customers by a net 4.7% from a year ago     (November 2013 compared with November 2012)  . The growth in these relationship-based
customers should benefit our future results as we remain focused on meeting
more of our customers  financial needs.  

Credit Quality   

  Credit
quality continued to improve in 2013, with solid performance in several of our
commercial and consumer loan portfolios, reflecting our long-term risk focus
and the benefit from the improving housing market.     Net charge-offs of $4.5 billion
were 0.56% of average loans, down 61     basis points from a
year ago. Net losses
in our commercial portfolio were only $206 million, or 6 basis points of
average loans. Net consumer losses declined to 98 basis points     in
2013 from 184 basis points in 2012.     We continued to have strong
improvement in our commercial and residential real estate portfolios. Our
commercial real estate portfolios were in a net recovery position for each
quarter of 2013 and losses on our consumer real estate portfolios declined $3.5     billion from a year ago, down 59%.  
  The consumer
loss levels reflected     the positive momentum in the
residential real estate market, with home values improving significantly in
many markets, as well as lower default frequency.  

  Reflecting these improvements in
our loan portfolios, our provision for credit losses in 2013 was $2.3 billion,
which was $4.9 billion less than a year ago. This provision reflected     a
release of $2.2 billion from the allowance for credit losses, compared with a release
of $1.8 billion a year ago. Given current favorable conditions, we continue to
expect future allowance releases, absent a significant deterioration in the
economy.  

  In addition to lower net charge-offs and provision
expense, nonperforming assets (NPAs) also improved and were down $4.9 billion,
or 20%, from 2012. Nonaccrual loans declined $4.8 billion from the prior year
while foreclosed assets were down slightly from 2012.  

   Capital   

  We continued to strengthen our capital levels     in 2013 even as we returned more capital to our
shareholders, increasing total equity to $171.0 billion at December 31, 2013,
up $12.1 billion from the prior year. Our Tier 1 common equity ratio was 10.82%
of risk-weighted assets (RWA) under Basel I.   Our estimated Common Equity Tier 1     ratio
under Basel III, using the advanced approach method,     increased to 9.76% in 2013, exceeding our internal target
of 9%, which includes a 100 basis point internal capital buffer.     The increase in the Basel III ratio was the result of our
strong underlying earnings performance and a reduction in RWA, which was due to
our improved credit profile and model refinements for our commercial
portfolios. We gained more clarity regarding Basel III capital requirements in
2013 and took a number of actions to further reduce RWA such as disposing of an
asset that had a punitive risk weighting and obtaining more granular data
related to the underlying investments of life insurance assets.  

  For 2013 we paid a total dividend of $1.15 per
share,     an increase of 31% from the prior year, and we
purchased 124 million shares of common stock in the year. We also executed a
$500 million forward purchase contract that is expected to settle in first
quarter 2014 for approximately 11 million shares.  

  Our other regulatory capital ratios under
Basel I remained strong with a     total
risk-based capital ratio of 15.43%, Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of     12.33% and Tier 1 leverage ratio of     9.60% at December 31, 2013,     compared with     14.63%, 11.75% and 9.47%, respectively, at December 31,
2012.   In July 2013, U.S. banking regulatory
agencies issued a supplementary leverage ratio proposal for Basel III.   Based on our review, our current leverage
levels would exceed the applicable proposed requirements for the holding
company and each of our insured depository institutions.     See the  Capital Management  section in this
Report for more information regarding our capital, including the calculation of
common equity for regulatory purposes. We remain committed to returning more
capital to our shareholders.  

31   

Overview        (continued)              

32   

33   

Earnings
Performance                                                                                                                                                  

Wells
Fargo net income for 2013 was $21.9 billion ($3.89 diluted earnings per common share),
compared with $18.9     billion
($3.36 diluted per share) for 2012 and $15.9 billion ($2.82 diluted per share)
for 2011. Our 2013 earnings reflected strong execution of our business strategy
as well as growth in many of our businesses.   Our financial performance in 2013     was
significantly affected by a reduced provision for credit losses, reflecting
strong underlying credit performance. We also generated diversified sources of fee
income across many of our businesses and grew loans and deposits.  

  Revenue, the sum of net interest
income and noninterest income, was $83.8 billion in 2013, compared with $86.1 billion
in 2012 and $80.9 billion in 2011. The decrease in revenue for 2013 was predominantly
due to     a
decrease in noninterest income, reflecting declines in mortgage banking     origination
volume as interest rates rose during 2013. In 2013, net interest income of
$42.8 billion represented 51% of revenue, compared with $43.2 billion (50%) in
2012 and $42.8 billion (53%) in 2011.  

Noninterest income was $41.0
billion in 2013, representing 49% of revenue, compared with $42.9 billion (50%)
in 2012 and $38.2 billion (47%) in 2011. The decrease in 2013 was driven
predominantly by a 25% decline in mortgage banking income due to decreased net
gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities, offset by higher servicing
income. Mortgage loan originations were $351 billion in 2013, down from $524
billion a year ago.  

  Noninterest expense was $48.8
billion in 2013, compared with $50.4 billion in 2012 and $49.4 billion in 2011.
Noninterest expense as a percentage of revenue (efficiency ratio) was 58.3% in
2013, 58.5% in 2012 and 61.0% in 2011, reflecting our expense management
efforts. The
decrease in 2013 compared with 2012 reflected lower operating losses, lower
foreclosed assets expense, and lower FDIC and other deposit assessments.  

  Table 3 presents the components
of revenue and noninterest expense as a percentage of revenue for
year-over-year results.  

34   

35   

Earnings

Performance                 (continued)              

Net Interest
Income   

  Net
interest income is the interest earned on debt securities, loans (including
yield-related loan fees) and other interest-earning assets minus the interest
paid for deposits, short-term borrowings and long-term debt. The net interest
margin is the average yield on earning assets minus the average interest rate
paid for deposits and our other sources of funding. Net interest income and the
net interest margin are presented on a taxable-equivalent basis in Table 5 to consistently reflect
income from taxable and tax-exempt loans and securities based on a 35% federal
statutory tax rate.  

  While the Company believes that
it has the ability to increase net interest income over time, net interest
income and the net interest margin in any one period can be significantly
affected by a variety of factors including the mix and overall size of our
earning assets portfolio   and
the cost of funding those assets. In addition, some variable     sources
of interest income, such as resolutions from purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loans,
loan prepayment fees and collection of interest on nonaccrual loans, can vary
from period to period.     Net interest income growth has
been challenged during the prolonged low interest rate environment as higher
yielding loans and securities runoff have been replaced with lower yielding
assets. The pace of this repricing has slowed in recent periods.   

  Net interest income on a
taxable-equivalent basis was $43.6     billion
in 2013, compared with $43.9     billion
in 2012, and $43.5 billion in 2011. The net interest margin was 3.39% in 2013,
down 37 basis points from 3.76% in 2012 and down 55     basis points from 3.94% in 2011.   The decrease in net
interest income for 2013, compared with 2012,     was
largely driven by declines in interest income from MHFS and loans as the
portfolio mix changed. Strong growth in commercial, retained real estate and
automobile loans has replaced runoff of higher yielding liquidating portfolios.
Net interest income declines were partially offset by reduced funding costs due
to disciplined deposit pricing and the maturity of higher yielding long-term
debt  . The
decline in net interest margin in 2013, compared with a year ago, was   primarily driven by higher funding balances, including
actions taken in response to increased regulatory liquidity expectations which
raised long-term debt and term deposits in addition to customer-driven deposit
growth. This growth in funding increased cash and federal funds sold and other
short-term investments and was dilutive to net interest margin although essentially
neutral to net interest income.  

Table 4 presents the components
of earning assets and funding sources as a percentage of earning assets to
provide a more meaningful analysis of year-over-year   changes that influenced net
interest income.  

  Average earning assets increased
$115.2 billion in 2013 from a year ago, as average investment securities
increased     $26.1     billion and average
federal funds sold and other short-term investments increased $70.8     billion
for the same period, respectively. In addition, average loans increased $29.8
billion in 2013, compared with a year ago. The increases in average investment
securities, average federal funds sold and other short-term investments and
average loans were partially offset by a $13.7 billion decline in average MHFS.  

  Core deposits are an important
low-cost source of funding and affect both net interest income and the net
interest margin. Core deposits include noninterest-bearing deposits,
interest-bearing checking, savings certificates, market rate and other savings,
and certain foreign deposits (Eurodollar sweep balances). Average core deposits
rose to $942.1 billion in 2013, compared with $893.9 billion in 2012, and
funded 117% of average loans compared with 115% a year ago. Average core
deposits decreased to 73% of average earning assets in 2013, compared with 76%
a year ago. The cost of these deposits has continued to decline due to a
sustained low interest rate environment and a shift in our deposit mix from
higher cost certificates of deposit to lower yielding checking and savings
products. About 95% of our average core deposits are in checking and savings
deposits, one of the highest industry percentages.  

  Table 5 presents the individual
components of net interest income and the net interest margin.   The effect on interest
income and costs of earning asset and funding mix changes described above,
combined with rate changes during 2013, are analyzed in Table 6.  

36   

37   

Earnings

Performance                 (continued)              

(1)      Our average prime rate
was 3.25% for 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The average
three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) was 0.27%, 0.43%, 0.34%, 0.34%,
and 0.69% for the same years, respectively.  

  (2)      Yield/rates and
amounts include the effects of hedge and risk management activities associated
with the respective asset and liability categories.  

  (3)      Interest
income/expense for trading assets represents interest and dividend income
earned on trading securities.  

  (4)      The average balance
amounts represent amortized cost for the periods presented.  

38   

(5)      Includes
$6.3 billion of federal agency mortgage-backed securities purchased during the
fourth quarter of 2013 and $6.0 billion of auto asset-backed securities that
were transferred near the end of 2013 from the available-for-sale portfolio.  

  (6)      Nonaccrual
loans and related income are included in their respective loan categories.  

  (7)      Includes
taxable-equivalent adjustments of $792 million, $701 million, $696 million, $629
million and $706 million for 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively,
primarily related to tax-exempt income on certain loans and securities. The
federal statutory tax rate utilized was 35% for the periods presented.       

39   

Earnings

Performance                 (continued)              

Table 6 allocates the changes in
net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis to changes in either average
balances or average rates for both interest-earning assets and interest bearing
liabilities. Because of the numerous simultaneous volume and rate changes
during any period, it is     not
possible to precisely allocate such changes between volume and rate. For this
table, changes that are not solely due to either volume or rate are allocated
to these categories on a pro-rata basis based on the absolute value of the
change due to average volume and average rate.  

40   

Noninterest
income of $41.0     billion represented 49% of
revenue for 2013 compared with $42.9 billion, or 50%, for 2012 and $38.2
billion, or 47%, for 2011. The     decrease      in noninterest income
in 2013 reflected declines in our mortgage banking business, partially offset
by growth in many
of our other businesses, including retail deposits, credit card, merchant card
processing, commercial banking, corporate banking, capital markets,
asset-backed finance, commercial real estate, commercial mortgage servicing,
corporate trust, asset management, wealth management, brokerage and retirement. Excluding mortgage
banking, noninterest income increased $988 million from a year ago.  

  Our service charges on deposit accounts
increased in 2013 by $340     million, or     7%,      from      2012,      due
to primary consumer checking customer growth, product changes and continued
customer adoption of overdraft services. These charges increased $403 million,
or 9%, in 2012 compared with 2011, predominantly due to product and account
changes including changes to service charges and fewer fee waivers, continued
customer adoption of overdraft services and customer account growth.  

  Brokerage advisory, commissions
and other fees are received   for
providing services to full service and discount brokerage customers.
Income from these brokerage-related activities include transactional
commissions based on the number of transactions executed at the customer s
direction, and asset based fees, which are based on the market value of
the customer s assets. These fees increased to $8.4     billion      in      2013, from $7.5 billion and $7.3     billion in 2012 and 2011,
respectively.   The
increase in brokerage income for both periods was predominantly due to higher
asset-based fees as a result of higher market values and growth in assets under
management.     Brokerage
client assets totaled $1.4 trillion     at
December 31, 2013, an     increase
from $1.2 trillion at December 31, 2012 and $1.1 trillion at December 31, 2011.  

  We earn trust and investment
management fees from managing and administering assets, including mutual funds,
corporate trust, personal trust, employee benefit trust and agency assets.
Trust and investment management fees are largely based on a tiered scale
relative to the market value of the assets under management or administration.  
  These fees
increased to $3.3 billion in 2013 from $3.1 billion in 2012 and $3.0 billion in
2011, primarily due
to growth in assets under management reflecting higher market values.   At December 31, 2013, these
assets totaled $2.4     trillion,
an increase from $2.2 trillion at both December 31, 2012 and 2011.  

  We earn investment banking fees
from underwriting debt and equity securities, arranging loan syndications, and
performing other related advisory services. Investment banking fees increased
to $1.7     billion in 2013, from $1.3 billion in 2012 and $964
million in 2011,     primarily due to increased loan
syndication volume and equity originations.  

  Card fees were $3.2     billion
in     2013,
compared with $2.8 billion in 2012, which was down from $3.7 billion
in 2011. Card
fees increased in 2013
due to account growth and increased purchase activity. During 2012, card fees
decreased compared with 2011 because of lower debit card interchange rates
resulting from the Federal Reserve Board rules implementing the debit
interchange provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, which became effective in fourth
quarter 2011. The reduction in debit interchange income for 2012 was partially
offset by growth in purchase volume and new accounts.  

  Mortgage banking income,     consisting of net servicing
income and net gains on loan origination/sales activities, totaled $8.8 billion
in 2013, compared with $11.6     billion
in 2012 and $7.8 billion in 2011.  

  Net mortgage loan servicing
income includes amortization of commercial mortgage servicing rights (MSRs),
changes in the fair value of residential MSRs during the period, as well as
changes in the value of derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the
residential MSRs.  
Net servicing income of $1.9 billion for 2013 included a $489 million net MSR
valuation gain ($3.4     billion
increase in the fair value of the MSRs offset by a $2.9     billion hedge loss). Net
servicing income of $1.4 billion for 2012 included a $681     million net MSR valuation gain ($2.9  
  billion decrease in the
fair value of MSRs offset by a $3.6     billion
hedge gain), and net servicing income of   $3.3 billion for 2011 included a
$1.6 billion net MSR valuation gain ($3.7 billion decrease in the fair
value of MSRs offset by a $5.3 billion hedge gain). The decrease in the 2012
net MSR valuation gain from that for 2011 reflected a $677 million
reduction in valuation due to additional costs associated with implementation
of the servicing standards developed in connection with our settlement with the
Department of Justice (DOJ) and other state and federal agencies relating to
our mortgage servicing      

41   

Earnings

Performance                 (continued)              

and foreclosure practices as
well as higher foreclosure costs. Our portfolio of loans serviced for others
was $1.90 trillion at December 31, 2013, $1.91 trillion at December 31,
2012, and $1.85 trillion at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2013, the ratio
of MSRs to related loans serviced for others was 0.88%, compared with 0.67% at December
31, 2012 and 0.76% at December 31, 2011. See the  Risk Management   Mortgage
Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  section in this Report for additional
information regarding our MSRs risks and hedging approach.  

  Net gains on mortgage loan
origination/sale activities were $6.9 billion in   2013  , compared with $10.3 billion in
2012 and $4.6 billion in 2011.   The
decrease from 2012 was     primarily
driven by lower     margins and origination volumes,
and the increase in 2012 from 2011 was driven by higher loan origination volume
and margins.     Mortgage
loan originations were $351 billion     in
2013, of which 47% were for home purchases, compared with $524 billion and 35%,
respectively, for 2012 and $357 billion and 40%, respectively, for 2011.   During   2013,    we retained for investment $3.6     billion
($19.4 billion for 2012) of 1-4 family conforming first mortgage loans,
forgoing approximately $120     million ($575 million for 2012)
of revenue that could have been generated had the loans been originated for
sale along with other agency conforming loan production.     While
retaining these mortgage loans on our balance sheet reduced mortgage revenue,
we expect to generate spread income in future quarters from mortgage loans with
higher yields than mortgage-backed securities we could have purchased in the
market. While we do not currently plan to hold additional conforming mortgages
on balance sheet, we have a large mortgage business and strong capital that
provides us with the flexibility to make such choices in the future to benefit our
long-term results.   Mortgage
applications     were
$438     billion in
2013, compared with $736 billion in 2012 and $537 billion in 2011. The 1-4
family first mortgage unclosed pipeline was $25     billion at December 31, 2013, compared with $81 billion
at December 31, 2012 and $72 billion at December 31, 2011. For additional
information about our mortgage banking activities and results, see the  Risk
Management   Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  section and Note 9
(Mortgage Banking Activities) and Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and
Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report.  

  Net gains on mortgage loan
origination/sales activities include the cost of additions to the mortgage
repurchase liability. Mortgage loans are repurchased from third parties based
on standard representations and warranties, and early payment default clauses
in mortgage sale contracts. Additions to the mortgage repurchase liability that
were charged against net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities
during     2013   
  totaled $428     million
(compared with $1.9     billion for   2012 and $1.3 billion for 2011  ), of which $285     million
($1.7     billion for  
2012 and $1.2 billion for 2011  )
was for subsequent increases in estimated losses on prior period loan sales. In
September and December 2013, we announced agreements with Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA),
respectively, which resolved substantially all agency repurchase liabilities
for mortgage loans sold or originated prior to 2009. As a result, outstanding
repurchase demands were down $1.2     billion from a year
ago and our repurchase liability declined to $899 million, the lowest level
since second quarter 2009.     For additional information about
mortgage loan repurchases, see the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  
Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  section and Note 9 (Mortgage
Banking Activities) to Financial Statements in this Report.  

  We engage in trading activities
primarily to accommodate the investment activities of our customers, execute
economic hedging to manage certain of our balance sheet risks and for a     very limited amount of
proprietary trading for our own account.   Net gains (losses) from trading
activities, which reflect unrealized changes     in fair value of our trading
positions and realized gains and losses, were $1.6     billion in 2013, $1.7     billion
in 2012 and $1.0 billion in 2011. The year-over-year decrease     in
2013 was largely driven by lower results in customer accommodation, and the
increase in 2012 from 2011 was driven by gains on customer accommodation
trading activities and economic hedging gains, which included higher gains on
deferred compensation plan investments based on participant elections (offset
entirely in employee benefit expense).     Net gains from trading
activities do not include interest and dividend income and expense on trading
securities. Those amounts are reported within interest income from trading
assets and other interest expense from trading liabilities.     Proprietary
trading generated $13 million     and $15 million of net gains in
2013 and 2012, respectively, and $14 million of net losses in 2011.     Interest
and fees related to proprietary trading are reported in their corresponding
income statement line items. Proprietary trading activities are not significant
to our client-focused business model.     For additional
information about proprietary and other trading, see the  Risk Management  
Asset and Liability Management   Market Risk   Trading Activities  section in
this Report.  

  Net gains on debt and equity
securities totaled $1.4     billion
for both 2013 and 2012     and
$1.5 billion for 2011, after other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) write-downs
of $344 million,     $416
million and $711 million, respectively, for the same periods.  

  All other income was $113 million
for 2013 compared with $1.1 billion in 2012 and $1.2 billion in 2011. All other
income includes ineffectiveness recognized on derivatives that qualify for
hedge accounting and pre-tax losses on tax credits and foreign currency
adjustments, any of which can cause other income losses.   Lower other income for
2013 compared with a year ago reflected larger ineffectiveness losses on
derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting and interest-related valuation
changes on certain mortgage-related assets carried at fair value.      

42   

Noninterest expense was $48.8 billion in 2013, down 3% from $50.4
billion in 2012, which was up 2% from $49.4 billion in 2011. The decrease in
2013 was driven predominantly by lower operating losses ($821 million, down
from $2.2 billion in 2012), lower foreclosed assets expense ($605 million, down
from $1.1 billion in 2012), lower FDIC and other deposit assessments ($961
million, down from $1.4 billion in 2012), and the completion of Wachovia merger
integration activities in the prior year ($218 million in first quarter 2012),
partially offset by higher personnel expense ($30.1 billion, up from $28.8
billion in 2012). The increase in 2012 from 2011 was driven by higher personnel
expense and higher operating losses, partially offset by lower merger
integration costs.  

  Personnel expenses, which include salaries,
commissions, incentive compensation and employee benefits, were up $1.3     billion, or 5%, in 2013 compared with 2012,
primarily due to annual salary increases and related salary taxes, and higher
revenue-based compensation (non-mortgage-related).     Included in personnel expense was a $422 million
increase in employee benefits, a significant portion of which was driven by
higher deferred compensation expense (offset in trading income). For 2012,
these expenses were up 4% compared with 2011 due mostly to higher revenue-based
compensation, higher employee benefits, and increased staffing.  

  The completion of Wachovia integration
activities in the prior year contributed to a year-over-year reduction in
noninterest expense for 2013, primarily in outside professional services and
contract services. Lower costs associated with our mortgage servicing regulatory
consent orders also contributed to the decline in outside professional services
in 2013, though this was partially offset by project spend on business
investments and compliance and regulatory     related initiatives. Outside professional services were
also elevated in 2012 and 2011, reflecting investments by our businesses in
their service delivery systems and higher costs associated with regulatory
driven mortgage servicing and foreclosure matters.  

  Foreclosed assets expense was down 43% in
2013 compared with 2012 and down 22% in 2012 compared with 2011, reflecting
lower write-downs, gains on sale, and lower expenses associated with foreclosed
properties, primarily driven by the real estate market improvement.   

  FDIC and other deposit assessments were down
29% in 2013 compared with 2012, due primarily to lower FDIC assessment rates
related to improved credit performance and the Company s liquidity position.  

  Operating losses were down 63% in 2013
compared with 2012, which was elevated predominantly due to mortgage servicing
and foreclosure-related matters, including the Attorneys General settlement
announced in February 2012, a $175 million settlement in July 2012 with the
U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), which resolved alleged claims related to our
mortgage lending practices, and the $766     million accrual for the Independent
Foreclosure Review (IFR) settlement and additional remediation-related costs.  

  All other expenses of $2.1 billion in 2013
were down from $2.4 billion in 2012, primarily due to a $250 million charitable
contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation in 2012.   

Income Tax
Expense   

  The 2013 annual effective tax rate was 32.2% compared with 32.5% in 2012
and 31.9% in 2011. The effective tax rate for 2013 included a net reduction in
the reserve for uncertain tax positions primarily due to settlements with
authorities regarding certain cross border transactions and tax benefits
recognized from the realization for tax purposes of a previously written down
investment. The 2012 effective tax rate included a tax benefit resulting from
the surrender of previously written-down Wachovia life insurance investments.     The 2011 effective tax rate included a
decrease in tax expense associated with leverage leases, as well as tax
benefits related to charitable donations of appreciated securities. See Note 21
(Income Taxes) to Financial Statements in this Report for information regarding
tax matters related to undistributed foreign earnings.      

43   

Earnings

Performance                 (continued)              

Operating
Segment Results   

  We are organized
for management reporting purposes into three operating segments: Community
Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. These
segments are defined by product type and customer segment and their results are
based on our management accounting process, for which there is no
comprehensive, authoritative financial accounting guidance equivalent to
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).     Table 9 and the following discussion present
our results by operating segment.   For a more
complete description of our operating segments, including additional financial
information and the underlying management accounting process, see Note 24
(Operating Segments) to Financial Statements in this Report.  

Community Banking      offers a complete line of diversified financial
products and services for consumers and small businesses. These products
include investment, insurance and trust services in 39 states and D.C., and
mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states and D.C. through its Regional
Banking and Wells Fargo Home Lending business units. Cross-sell of our products
is an important part of our strategy to achieve our vision to satisfy all our
customers  financial needs. Our retail bank household cross-sell was a record 6.16 products
per household in November 2013, up from 6.05 in November 2012     and 5.93 in November 2011. We believe there
is more opportunity for cross-sell as we continue to earn more business from
our customers. Our goal is eight products per household, which is approximately
one-half of our estimate of potential demand for an average U.S. household. In
November 2013, one of every four of our retail banking households had eight or
more of our products.  

  Community Banking reported net income of
$12.7 billion in 2013, up $2.2 billion, or 21%, from $10.5 billion in 2012, which
was up 15% from $9.1 billion in 2011. Revenue was $50.3 billion in 2013, a
decrease of $3.1 billion, or 6%, compared with $53.4 billion in 2012, which was
up 5% compared with $50.8 billion in 2011. The decrease in 2013 was a result of
lower mortgage banking revenue, partially offset by higher trust and investment
fees, and revenue from debit, credit and merchant card volumes. The increase in
2012 was the result of higher mortgage banking revenue and growth in deposit
service charges, partially offset by lower debit card revenue due to regulatory
changes enacted in October 2011, and lower net interest income. Average core
deposits increased $28.9 billion in 2013, or 5%, from 2012, which increased
$34.9 billion, or 6%, from 2011. Noninterest expense declined $2.1 billion in
2013, or 7%, from 2012,     which
increased $1.6 billion, or 5%, from 2011. The decrease in noninterest expense
for 2013 reflected lower FDIC and other deposit insurance assessments due to
lower FDIC assessment rates. Noninterest expense for 2012 was elevated,
compared with 2013 and 2011, due to costs associated with settling mortgage
servicing and foreclosure-related matters including the DOJ and the IFR
settlement, and a $250 million contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation. The
provision for credit losses of $2.8 billion in 2013 was 60% lower than 2012, which
was $1.1 billion, or 14%, lower than 2011, due to improved portfolio
performance in both 2013 and 2012.      

44   

Wholesale Banking      provides financial solutions to
businesses across the United States and globally with annual sales generally in
excess of $20 million. Products and business segments include Middle Market
Commercial Banking, Government and Institutional Banking, Corporate Banking,
Commercial Real Estate, Treasury Management, Wells Fargo Capital Finance,
Insurance, International, Real Estate Capital Markets, Commercial Mortgage
Servicing, Corporate Trust, Equipment Finance, Wells Fargo Securities,
Principal Investments, Asset Backed Finance, and Asset Management.     Wholesale Banking cross-sell was a record
7.1 products per customer in September 2013, up from 6.8 in September 2012
and 6.5 in September     2011.   

  Wholesale Banking reported net
income of $8.1 billion in 2013, up $359 million, or 5%, from $7.8 billion in
2012, which was up 11% from     $7.0 billion in 2011. The year over year
increase in net income during 2013 was the result of improvement in provision
for credit losses and stable revenue performance partially offset by increased
noninterest expense. The year over year increase in net income during 2012 was
the result of strong revenue growth partially offset by increased noninterest
expense and a higher provision for credit losses.     Revenue in 2013 of $24.1 billion
was flat from 2012, as business growth from asset backed finance, asset
management, capital markets and commercial real estate was offset by lower PCI
resolution income.     Revenue in 2012 of $24.1 billion increased $2.5 billion, or 12%,
from 2011, due to broad-based business growth as well as growth from
acquisitions. Net interest income of $12.3 billion in 2013 decreased $350
million, or 3%, from 2012, which was up 9% from 2011. The decrease in 2013 was
due to a strong loan and deposit growth, which was more than offset by lower
PCI resolutions and net interest margin compression. The increase in 2012 was
driven by strong loan and deposit growth. Average loans of $290.0 billion in
2013     increased
$16.2 billion, or 6%, from $273.8 billion in 2012, which was up 10% from $249.1
billion in 2011. The loan growth in both 2013 and 2012 was driven by strong
customer demand as well as growth from acquisitions.     Average core deposits of $237.2
billion in 2013 increased $10.2 billion, or 4%, from 2012     which was up 12%, from 2011,
reflecting continued strong customer liquidity for both years. Noninterest
income of $11.8     billion
in 2013 increased $322 million, or 3%, from 2012 due to strong growth in asset
backed finance, asset management, capital markets, commercial banking,
commercial real estate and corporate banking.     Noninterest income of $11.4
billion in 2012 increased $1.5 billion, or 15%, from 2011 due to strong growth
in asset backed finance, capital markets, commercial banking, commercial real
estate and     real   estate capital markets  .      Total noninterest expense in 2013 increased
$296 million, or 2%, compared with 2012, which was up 8%, or $905 million, from
2011. The increase in both 2013 and 2012 was due to higher personnel expenses
and higher non-personnel expenses related to growth initiatives and compliance
and regulatory requirements, partially offset in 2013 by lower foreclosed asset
expenses. The provision for credit losses decreased $731 million from 2012, due
to lower loan losses, while the provision for credit losses increased $396
million in 2012 from 2011, as a $319 million decline in loan losses was more
than offset by a provision for increase in loans, particularly from
acquisitions.  

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement      provides a full range of financial advisory
services to clients using a planning approach to meet each client's financial
needs. Wealth Management provides affluent and high net worth clients with a
complete range of wealth management solutions, including financial planning,
private banking, credit, investment management and fiduciary services. Abbot
Downing, a Wells Fargo business, provides comprehensive wealth management
services to ultra high net worth families and individuals as well as endowments
and foundations. Brokerage serves customers' advisory, brokerage and financial
needs as part of one of the largest full-service brokerage firms in the United
States. Retirement is a national leader in providing institutional retirement
and trust services (including 401(k) and pension plan record keeping) for
businesses, retail retirement solutions for individuals, and reinsurance
services for the life insurance industry. Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement
cross-sell reached a record 10.42 products per household in November 2013, up
from 10.27 in November 2012 and 10.05 in November 2011.  

  Wealth  , Brokerage and Retirement reported net income of $1.7
billion in 2013, up $384 million, or 29%, from 2012, which was up 4% from $1.3 billion in 2011. Net income
growth in 2013 was driven by higher noninterest income and improved credit
quality. Growth in net income for 2012 was affected by the   $153     million gain on the sale of the H.D. Vest
Financial Services business included in the 2011 results.   Revenue of $13.2 billion in 2013 increased
$1.0 billion from 2012, which was flat   compared with
2011. The increase in revenue for 2013 was due to increases in both net
interest income and noninterest income.     Net interest income increased 4% in 2013,
due to growth in loan balances and low-cost core deposits, partially offset by
lower interest rates on the loan and investment portfolios.   Net interest income     decreased 3% in 2012 due to
lower interest rates on the loan and investment portfolios partially offset by
the impact of growth in low-cost core deposits  . Average core deposits in 2013 of $150.1 billion
increased 9% from 2012, which was up 6% from 2011.     Noninterest income increased 10%     in 2013 from 2012, largely due to strong
growth in asset-based fees from improved market performance and growth in
assets under management, partially offset by reduced securities gains in the
brokerage business.   A slight increase     of $59 million in noninterest
income in 2012 compared with 2011 was due to higher asset-based fees and gains
on deferred compensation plan investments (offset in expense), partially offset
by the 2011 gain on the sale of H.D. Vest Financial Services business, lower
transaction revenue and reduced securities gains in the brokerage business.   Noninterest expense for 2013 was up 6% from
2012, which was flat from 2011. The increase in 2013 was predominantly due to
higher personnel expenses, primarily reflecting increased broker commissions. Noninterest
expense for 2012 included the impact of deferred compensation plan expense
(offset in revenue). Total provision for credit losses improved for both 2013
and 2012, driven by lower net charge-offs and continued improvement in credit
quality.      

Balance
Sheet Analysis                                                                                                                                                        

At December 31, 2013, our assets totaled $1.5 trillion, up $104.0     billion from December 31, 2012.
The predominant areas of asset growth were in federal funds sold and other short-term
investments, which increased $76.5 billion, investment securities,      

45   

Balance

Sheet Analysis        (continued)              

which increased $29.2 billion, and loans, which increased
$26.2 billion,     partially      offset by a $30.4 billion     decrease in mortgages held for
sale.     Deposit
growth of $76.3 billion,     total equity growth of $12.1 billion and an
increase in long-term debt of $25.6 billion     from December 31, 2012 were the
predominant sources     funding our asset growth during 2013. The deposit growth resulted
in an increase in the proportion of interest-bearing deposits.     Equity growth benefited from $14.7     billion in earnings     net of dividends paid,     as well as from the issuance of
preferred     stock.      The strength of our business
model produced record earnings and continued internal capital generation as
reflected in our capital ratios, all of which improved from December 31, 2012.
Tier 1 capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets increased to 12.33%,
total capital increased to 15.43%, Tier 1 leverage increased to 9.60%, and Tier
1 common equity increased to 10.82% at December 31, 2013, compared with 11.75%,
14.63%, 9.47%, and 10.12%, respectively, at December 31, 2012.  

  The following discussion
provides additional information     about the major components of our balance
sheet. Information regarding our capital and changes in our asset mix is included
in the  Earnings Performance   Net Interest Income  and  Capital Management 
sections     and
Note 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in
this Report.  

Table 10   presents a summary of our investment
securities     portfolio, which consists of  
  debt securities
classified as available-for-sale and held-to-maturity and marketable equity
securities classified as available-for-sale.     During fourth quarter
2013, we began purchasing high-quality agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS)
into our held-to-maturity portfolio. Additionally, we transferred a portfolio
of asset-backed securities (ABS) primarily collateralized by auto loans and
leases from available-for-sale, reflecting our intent to hold these securities
to maturity. Our investment securities portfolio increased $29.2     billion
from December 31, 2012, primarily due to purchases of agency MBS.     The
total net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities were $3.9 billion
at December
31, 2013,
down from net unrealized gains of $11.9 billion at December 31, 2012, due primarily to an
increase in long-term interest rates.  

  The size and composition of the investment
securities portfolio is largely dependent upon the Company s liquidity and
interest rate risk management objectives. Our business generates assets
and liabilities, such as loans, deposits and long-term debt, which have
different maturities, yields, re-pricing, prepayment characteristics and other
provisions that expose us to interest rate and liquidity risk. The
available-for-sale securities portfolio consists primarily of liquid, high
quality     agency debt and     MBS, privately issued residential
and commercial     MBS, securities issued by U.S.
states and political subdivisions, corporate debt securities, and highly rated collateralized
loan obligations.     Due to its highly liquid nature,
the available-for-sale portfolio can be used to meet funding needs that arise
in the normal course of business or due to market stress. Changes in our
interest rate risk profile may occur due to changes in overall economic or
market conditions, which could influence     loan origination
demand, prepayment speeds, or deposit balances and mix. In response, the
available-for-sale securities portfolio can be rebalanced to meet the Company s
interest rate risk management objectives. In addition to meeting liquidity
and interest rate risk management objectives, the available-for-sale securities
portfolio may provide yield enhancement over other short-term assets. See
the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management  section in this Report for
more information on liquidity and interest rate risk.     The held-to-maturity
securities portfolio consists primarily of high quality agency MBS and ABS
primarily collateralized by auto loans and leases, where our intent is to hold
these securities to maturity and collect the contractual cash flows. The
held-to-maturity portfolio may also provide yield enhancement     over      short-term
assets.  

  We analyze securities for OTTI
quarterly or more often if a potential loss-triggering event occurs. Of
the $344     million in
OTTI write-downs recognized in 2013, $158     million
related to debt securities and $25 million related to marketable equity
securities, which are each included in     available-for-sale
securities.     Another $161 million
in OTTI write-downs is related to nonmarketable equity investments, which are
included in other assets. For a discussion of our OTTI accounting policies and
underlying considerations and analysis see Note 1 (Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies   Investments)     and
Note 5 (Investment Securities) to Financial Statements in this Report.  

  At December 31, 2013,     investment
securities     included $42.5     billion of municipal
bonds, of which 86% were rated  A-  or better based predominantly     on
external and, in some cases, internal     ratings. Additionally,
some of the securities in our total municipal bond portfolio are guaranteed
against loss by bond insurers. These guaranteed bonds are predominantly
investment grade and were generally underwritten in accordance with our own
investment standards prior to the determination to purchase, without relying on
the      

46   

bond insurer s guarantee in making the investment
decision. Our municipal bond holdings are monitored as part of our ongoing
impairment analysis.  

  The weighted-average expected
maturity of debt securities available-for-sale was 7.5     years at December 31, 2013.
Because 60% of this portfolio is MBS, the expected remaining maturity is
shorter than the remaining contractual maturity because borrowers generally
have the right to prepay obligations before the underlying mortgages mature.
The estimated effects of a 200 basis point increase or decrease in interest
rates on the fair value and the expected remaining maturity of the MBS
available-for-sale are shown in Table 11.  

See Note 5 (Investment
Securities) to Financial Statements in this Report for a summary of investment securities  
  by security type.  

47   

Balance

Sheet Analysis        (continued)              

Loan Portfolio   

  Total loans were $825.8 billion at   December 31, 2013, up   $26.2     billion from   December 31, 2012  . Table 12
  provides
a summary of total outstanding loans by non-strategic/liquidating and core loan portfolios. The     runoff
in the non-strategic/liquidating portfolios was $13.7 billion, while loans in
the core portfolio grew $39.9 billion from December 31,  
  2012. Our core loan growth
in 2013 included:  

a
$20.7     billion
increase in the commercial segment predominantly from growth in commercial and
industrial loans and foreign loans, which included $5.2 billion of commercial
real estate portfolio acquisitions, consisting of $4.0     billion U.K.
commercial real estate loans classified within foreign loans and $1.2 billion
within commercial real estate mortgage; and  

a
$19.2 billion increase in consumer loans,     predominantly from
growth in     first lien mortgages.      

Additional
information on the non-strategic and liquidating loan portfolios is included in
Table 17 in the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  section in this
Report.  

A discussion of average loan
balances and a comparative detail of average loan balances is included in Table
5 under  Earnings Performance   Net Interest Income  earlier in this Report. Additional
information on total loans outstanding by portfolio segment and class of
financing receivable is included in the  Risk Management   Credit Risk
Management  section in this Report. Period-end balances and other loan related
information are in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial
Statements in this Report  .   

  Table 13 shows contractual loan
maturities for loan categories normally not subject to regular periodic
principal reduction and sensitivities of those loans to changes in interest
rates.  

48   

Deposits   

  Deposits
totaled $1.1 trillion at December 31, 2013, compared with $1.0     trillion at December
31, 2012. Table 14 provides additional information regarding deposits. Deposit
growth of $76 billion from December 31, 2012 reflected continued
customer-driven growth as well as liquidity-related issuances of term deposits.
Information regarding the impact of deposits on net interest income and a
comparison of average deposit balances is provided in  Earnings Performance  
Net Interest Income  and Table 5 earlier in this Report. Total core deposits
were $980.1 billion at December 31, 2013, up $34.4 billion from
$945.7 billion at December 31, 2012.   

Equity   

  Total equity was $171.0 billion at December
31, 2013 compared with $158.9 billion at December 31, 2012. The increase was
predominantly driven by a $14.7 billion increase in retained earnings from
earnings net of dividends paid, partially offset by a $4.3 billion decline in
cumulative other comprehensive income (OCI). The decline in OCI was due to     a   
  $7.9      billion ($4.9
billion     after tax) reduction in net unrealized gains     on our investment securities     portfolio      resulting
from an increase in long-term interest rates. This decline was partially offset
by our     re-measurement of our pension and post-retirement
plan liabilities, combined with pension settlement losses and amortization of
actuarial losses, which increased cumulative other comprehensive income by $1.8     billion ($1.1 billion after     tax). See Note 5 (Investment Securities) and     Note 20 (Employee Benefits and Other
Expenses) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information.  

Off-Balance
Sheet Arrangements                                                                                                                                       

In the ordinary course of business, we engage in financial
transactions that are not recorded on the balance sheet, or may be recorded on
the balance sheet in amounts that are different from the full contract or
notional amount of the transaction. Our off-balance sheet arrangements include
commitments to lend, transactions with unconsolidated entities, guarantees,
derivatives, and other commitments.     These transactions are designed to (1) meet
the financial needs of customers, (2) manage our credit, market or liquidity
risks, and/or     (3)
diversify our funding sources.   

Commitments
to Lend   

  We enter into
commitments to lend funds to customers, which are usually at a stated interest
rate, if funded, and for specific purposes and time periods. When we make
commitments, we are exposed to credit risk. However, the maximum credit risk
for these commitments will generally be lower than the contractual amount
because a significant portion of these commitments are not expected to be fully
utilized or will expire without being used by the customer. For more
information on lending commitments, see Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit
Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.  

Transactions
with Unconsolidated Entities   

  We routinely enter into various types of on- and off-balance
sheet transactions with special purpose entities (SPEs), which are
corporations, trusts or partnerships that are established for a limited
purpose. Generally, SPEs are formed in connection with securitization
transactions. For more information on securitizations, including sales proceeds
and cash flows from securitizations, see Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable
Interest Entities) to Financial Statements in this Report.  

Guarantees
and Certain Contingent Arrangements   

  Guarantees
are contracts that contingently require us to make payments to a guaranteed
party based on an event or a change in an underlying asset, liability, rate or
index. Guarantees are generally in the form of standby letters of credit,
securities lending and other indemnifications, liquidity agreements, written
put options, recourse obligations for loans and mortgages sold, and contingent
consideration.  

  For more information on
guarantees and certain contingent arrangements, see Note 14 (Guarantees,
Pledged Assets and Collateral) to Financial Statements in this Report.  

Derivatives   

49   

Off-Balance

Sheet Arrangements                 (continued)              

We primarily
use derivatives to manage exposure to market risk, including interest rate
risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk, and to assist customers with their
risk management objectives. Derivatives     are
recorded on the balance sheet at fair value and can be measured in terms of the
notional amount, which is generally not exchanged, but is used only as the
basis on which interest and other payments are determined. The notional amount
is not recorded on the balance sheet and is not, when viewed in isolation, a
meaningful measure of the risk profile of the instruments.   

  For more information on
derivatives, see Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report.  

Contractual
Cash Obligations   

  In
addition to the contractual commitments and arrangements previously described,
which, depending on the nature of the obligation, may or may not require use of  
  our resources, we enter
into other contractual obligations that may require future cash payments in the
ordinary course of business, including debt issuances for the funding of
operations and leases for premises and equipment.   

  Table 15 summarizes these
contractual obligations as of December 31, 2013, excluding the projected cash
payments for obligations for short-term borrowing arrangements and pension and
postretirement benefit plans. More information on those obligations is in Note
12 (Short-Term Borrowings) and Note 20 (Employee Benefits and Other Expenses)
to Financial Statements in this Report.      

We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S.,
its states and municipalities, and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which
we operate. We have various unrecognized tax obligations related to these
operations that may require future cash tax payments to various taxing
authorities. Because of their uncertain nature, the expected timing and amounts
of these payments generally are not reasonably estimable or determinable. We
attempt to estimate the amount payable in the next 12 months based on the status
of our tax examinations and settlement discussions. See Note 21 (Income Taxes)
to Financial Statements in this Report for more information.  

Transactions
with Related Parties   

  The
Related Party Disclosures topic of the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) requires
disclosure of material related party transactions, other than compensation
arrangements, expense allowances and other similar items in the ordinary course
of business. We had no related party transactions required to be reported for
the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.  

50   

Risk
Management                                                                                                                                                         

Financial institutions must manage a
variety of business risks that can significantly affect their financial
performance. Among the key risks that we must manage are operational risks, credit
risks, and asset/liability management risks, which include interest rate,     market, and
liquidity and funding risks. Our risk culture is strongly rooted in our    Vision
and Values   , and in order to succeed in our mission of satisfying all our
customers  financial needs and helping them succeed financially, our business
practices and operating model must support prudent risk management practices.   

   Risk
Management Framework and Culture   

  The
key elements of our risk management framework and culture include the
following:  

We
strongly believe in managing risk as close to the source as possible   .  We manage risk
through three lines of defense, and the first line of defense is our team
members in our lines of business who are responsible for identifying,
assessing, monitoring, managing, mitigating, and owning the risks in their
businesses. All of our team members have accountability for risk management.   

We
recognize the importance of strong oversight   .  Our Corporate Risk group, led
by our Chief Risk Officer who reports to the Board s Risk Committee, as well as
other corporate functions such as the Law Department, Corporate Controllers,
and the Human Resources Department serve as the second line of defense and
provide company-wide leadership, oversight, an enterprise view, and appropriate
challenge to help ensure effective and consistent understanding and management
of all risks by our lines of business. Wells Fargo Audit Services, led by our
Chief Auditor who reports to the Board s Audit and Examination Committee,
serves as the third line of defense and through its audit, assurance, and
advisory work evaluates and helps improve the effectiveness of the governance,
risk management, and control processes across the enterprise.  

We
have a significant bias for conservatism   .  We strive to maintain a conservative
financial position measured by satisfactory asset quality, capital levels,
funding sources, and diversity of revenues. Our risk is distributed by
geography, product type, industry segment, and asset class, and while we want
to grow the Company, we will attempt to do so in a way that supports our long-term
goals and does not compromise our ability to manage risk.   

We
have a long-term customer focus   .  Our focus is on knowing our customers
and meeting our customers  long-term financial needs by offering products and
value-added services that are appropriate for their needs and circumstances. In
addition, our team members are committed to operational excellence, and we
recognize that our infrastructure, systems, processes, and compliance programs
must support the financial success of our customers through a superior customer
service experience.  

We
must understand and follow our risk appetite   .  Our risk management framework
is based on understanding and following our overall enterprise statement of risk
appetite,     which describes
the nature and level of risks that we are willing to take to achieve our
strategic and business objectives. This statement provides the philosophical
underpinnings that guide business and risk leaders as they manage risk on a
day-to-day basis. Our CEO and Operating Committee, which consists of our Chief
Risk Officer and other senior executives, develop our enterprise statement of risk
appetite in the context of our risk management framework and culture described
above. The Board approves our statement of risk appetite annually, and the
Board s Risk Committee reviews and approves any proposed changes to the
statement to help ensure that it remains consistent with our risk profile.   

  As
part of our review of our risk appetite, we maintain metrics along with
associated objectives to measure and monitor the amount of risk that the Company
is prepared to take. Actual results of these metrics are reported to the
Enterprise Risk Management Committee on a quarterly basis as well as to the
Risk Committee of the Board. Our operating segments also have business-specific
risk appetite statements based on the enterprise statement of risk appetite.
The metrics included in the operating segment statements are harmonized with
the enterprise level metrics to ensure consistency where appropriate. Business
lines also maintain metrics and qualitative statements that are unique to their
line of business. This allows for monitoring of risk and definition of risk
appetite deeper within the organization.  

  Our
risk culture seeks to promote proactive risk management and putting the
customer first by implementing an ongoing program of training, performance
management, and regular communication. Our risk culture also depends on the
 tone at the top  set by our Board, CEO, and Operating Committee members.
Through oversight of the three lines of defense, the Board and the Operating
Committee are the starting point for establishing and reinforcing our risk
culture and have overall and ultimate responsibility for oversight of our
risks, which they carry out through committees with specific risk management
functions.   

   Board
Oversight of Risk   

  The
Board performs its risk oversight function primarily through its seven standing
committees, all of which report to the full Board. Each of the Board s
committees is responsible for oversight of specific risks, including reputation
risks, as outlined in each of their charters and as summarized on the following
chart. The Risk Committee assists the Board and its other committees by, among
other things, helping to ensure end-to-end ownership of oversight of all risk
issues in one Board committee, overseeing risk across the entire Company and
across all risk types, and by reviewing and monitoring the Company s overall
risk appetite. To facilitate discussion and communication about enterprise-wide
risk matters and avoid unnecessary duplication, the Risk Committee s members
consist of the chairs of each of the Board s other committees.  

51   

Risk

Management   Credit Risk              Management        (continued)              

52   

Management s Oversight of Risk   

  The
Board and its committees work closely with management in overseeing risk. Each
Board committee receives reports and information regarding risk issues directly
from management. Managers are accountable for managing risks through day-to-day
operations and, in some cases, management committees     have
been established to inform the risk management framework and provide governance
and advice regarding management functions. These committees include:   

The    Operating Committee   , which meets weekly to, among other
things, discuss strategic, operational and risk issues at the enterprise level.  

The    Enterprise Risk Management Committee (ERMC)   , which
meets regularly during the year and reviews significant and emerging risk
topics and high-risk business initiatives, particularly those that may result
in additional regulatory or reputational risk.   

The    Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO)   , which is
responsible for enterprise-wide oversight of the Company's balance sheet,
interest rate exposure, market risks, liquidity, and capital. The committee
provides guidance and recommendations to management and the Board related to
risk management for these areas.  

The    Market Risk Committee,    which provides oversight of the Company s
market risk exposures to ensure significant market risks throughout the Company
are identified, measured and monitored in accordance with the Company s stated
risk appetite.  

The    Compliance and Operational Risk Committee (CORC)   , which
provides a forum for senior risk managers to focus on enterprise-wide
compliance and operational risk issues, and provides leadership and direction
in evaluating management of operational risks, establishing priorities, and
fostering collaboration and coordination of risk management activities across
the Company.  

The    Regulatory Compliance Risk Management Committee (RCRM)   ,
which provides a forum for senior compliance managers to provide leadership,
direction, and assessment of the management of enterprise-wide regulatory
risks, and to escalate such risks to the chief compliance officer as necessary  

The    Corporate
Allowance for Credit Losses Approval Committee,    which reviews
the process and supporting analytics for allowance for loan and lease losses
and the allowance for unfunded credit commitments to help ensure allowances for
credit losses are maintained at adequate levels in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles and regulatory guidelines.   

These committees help management facilitate enterprise-wide
understanding and monitoring of risks and challenges faced by the Company.
Management s corporate risk organization, which is part of the second line of
defense, is headed by the Company s Chief Risk Officer who, among other things,
provides oversight, opines on the performance and strategy of all risks taken
by the businesses, and provides credible challenge to risks incurred. The Chief
Risk Officer, as well as the Chief Enterprise, Credit, Market, and Operational
Risk Officers as his or her direct reports, work closely with the Board s
committees and frequently provide reports and updates to the committees and the
committee chairs on risk issues during and outside of regular committee
meetings, as appropriate. The full Board receives reports at each of its
meetings from the committee chairs about committee activities, including risk
oversight matters, and receives a quarterly report from the ERMC regarding
current or emerging risk issues.  

  Further
discussion and specific examples of reporting, measurement and monitoring
techniques we use in each risk area are included within the subsequent
sub-sections of the Risk Management section in this Report.  

Operational
Risk Management   

  Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from
inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, or resulting from external
events or third parties. Information security is a significant   operational risk for financial institutions such as Wells
Fargo, and includes the risk of losses resulting from cyber attacks.   Wells
Fargo and reportedly other financial institutions continue to be the target of
various evolving and adaptive denial-of-service or other cyber attacks as part
of what appears to be a coordinated effort to disrupt the operations of
financial institutions and potentially test their cybersecurity capabilities.
Wells Fargo has not experienced any material losses relating to these or other
cyber attacks. Cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of
our controls, processes and systems to protect our networks, computers,
software, and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority
for Wells Fargo. See the  Risk Factors  section in this Report for additional
information regarding the risks associated with a failure or breach of our
operational or security systems or infrastructure, including as a result of
cyber attacks.  

53   

Risk

Management   Credit Risk              Management        (continued)              

Credit Risk Management    

  Loans represent the largest component of assets on our
balance sheet and their related credit risk is a significant risk we manage. We
define credit risk as the risk of loss associated with a borrower or
counterparty default (failure to meet obligations in accordance with agreed
upon terms). Table 16 presents our total loans outstanding by portfolio segment
and class of financing receivable.  

We manage our credit risk by establishing
what we believe are sound credit policies for underwriting new business, while
monitoring and reviewing the performance of our existing loan portfolios. We
employ various credit risk management and monitoring activities to mitigate
risks associated with multiple risk factors affecting loans we hold, could acquire or originate     including:   

Loan
concentrations and related credit quality  

Counterparty
credit risk  

Economic
and market conditions  

Legislative
or regulatory mandates  

Changes
in interest rates  

Merger
and acquisition activities  

Reputation
risk  

Our credit risk management
oversight process is governed centrally, but provides for decentralized
management and accountability by our lines of business. Our overall credit
process includes comprehensive credit policies, disciplined credit
underwriting, frequent and detailed risk measurement and modeling, extensive
credit training programs, and a continual loan review and audit process.  

  A key to our credit risk
management is adherence to a well-controlled underwriting process, which we
believe is appropriate for the needs of our customers as well as investors who
purchase the loans or securities collateralized by the loans.  

54   

Credit Quality Overview          Credit quality continued to improve during 2013 due in part
to improving economic conditions as well as our proactive credit risk
management activities. The improvement occurred for both commercial and
consumer portfolios as evidenced by their credit metrics:  

Nonaccrual
loans decreased to $3.5 billion and $12.2 billion in our commercial and
consumer portfolios, respectively, at December 31, 2013, from $5.8 billion and
$14.7 billion at December 31, 2012. Nonaccrual loans represented 1.90% of total
loans at December 31, 2013, compared with 2.56% at December 31, 2012.   

Net
charge-offs as a percentage of average total loans improved to 0.56% in 2013     compared with 1.17%
a year ago and were 0.06% and 0.98% in our commercial and consumer portfolios,
respectively, compared with     0.35%
and 1.84%     in      2012.   

Loans
that are not government insured/guaranteed and 90 days or more past due and
still accruing decreased to     $143
million     and $902 million     in our commercial
and consumer portfolios, respectively, at     December 31, 2013, from $303 million and $1.1
billion     at December 31,
2012.  

In addition to credit
metric improvements we saw improvement in various economic indicators such as
home prices that influenced our evaluation of the allowance and provision for
credit losses. Accordingly:  

Our
provision for credit losses decreased to $2.3 billion     in 2013 from $7.2
billion in 2012.   

The
allowance for credit losses decreased to $15.0 billion     at December 31,
2013 from $17.5 billion  
  at
December 31, 2012.  

Additional
information on our loan portfolios and our credit quality trends follows.   

Non-Strategic
and Liquidating Loan Portfolios          We continually evaluate and modify
our credit policies to address appropriate levels of risk. We may designate
certain portfolios and loan products as non-strategic or liquidating after we
cease their continued origination and actively work to limit losses and reduce
our exposures.  

  Table 17 identifies our
non-strategic and liquidating loan portfolios. They consist primarily of the
Pick-a-Pay mortgage portfolio and PCI loans acquired from Wachovia, certain
portfolios from legacy Wells Fargo Home Equity and Wells Fargo Financial, and
our education finance government guaranteed loan portfolio. The total balance
of our non-strategic and liquidating loan portfolios has decreased 58% since
the merger with Wachovia at December 31, 2008, and decreased 14% from the end
of 2012.  

  The home equity portfolio of
loans generated through third party channels is designated as liquidating.
Additional information regarding this portfolio, as well as the liquidating PCI
and Pick-a-Pay loan portfolios, is provided in the discussion of loan
portfolios that follows.   

55   

Risk

Management   Credit Risk              Management        (continued)              

PURCHASED
CREDIT-IMPAIRED (PCI) Loans       L  oans acquired with evidence of credit
deterioration since their origination and where it is probable that we will not
collect all contractually required principal and interest payments are PCI
loans. Substantially all of our PCI loans were acquired in the Wachovia
acquisition on December 31, 2008. PCI loans are recorded at fair value at the
date of acquisition, and the historical allowance for credit losses related to
these loans is not carried over. The carrying value of PCI loans     totaled      $26.7 billion at   December
31, 2013  , down from $31.0
billion and $58.8 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2008, respectively.     Such loans are considered to be accruing due
to the existence of the accretable yield and not based on consideration given
to contractual interest payments.     The
accretable yield at December 31, 2013, was $17.4 billion, which reflects a
revision from the $19.1 billion reported in our earnings release, filed January
14, 2014, on Form 8-K. This revision primarily reflects a correction of
our projected cash flow estimates for our Pick-a-Pay portfolio related to the
anticipated volume of future modifications and defaults on modified loans. As a
result, the estimated weighted-average life of our projected cash flow
estimates for our Pick-a-Pay portfolio declined from 14.0 years to 12.7 years.  

  A nonaccretable difference is established
for PCI loans to absorb losses expected on those loans at the date of
acquisition. Amounts absorbed by the nonaccretable difference do not affect the
income statement or the allowance for credit losses.  

  Substantially all commercial and industrial,
CRE and foreign PCI loans are accounted for as individual loans. Conversely,
Pick-a-Pay and other consumer PCI loans have been aggregated into pools based
on common risk characteristics. Each pool is accounted for as a single asset
with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash
flows.  

Resolutions of loans may include sales to
third parties, receipt of payments in settlement with the borrower, or
foreclosure of the collateral. Our policy is to remove an individual PCI loan
from a pool based on comparing the amount received from its resolution with its
contractual amount. Any difference between these amounts is absorbed by the
nonaccretable difference. This removal method assumes     that the amount received from resolution approximates
pool  
  performance expectations. The
accretable yield percentage is     unaffected
by the resolution and any changes in the effective yield for the remaining
loans in the pool are addressed by our quarterly cash flow evaluation process
for each pool. For loans that are resolved by payment in full, there is no
release of the nonaccretable difference for the pool because there is no
difference between the amount received at resolution and the contractual amount
of the loan. Modified PCI loans are not removed from a pool even if those loans
would otherwise be deemed TDRs. Modified PCI loans that are accounted for
individually are TDRs, and removed from PCI accounting, if there has been a concession
granted in excess of the original nonaccretable difference. We include these
TDRs in our impaired loans.  

  During 2013, we recognized as income $91 million
released from the nonaccretable difference related to commercial PCI loans due
to payoffs and other resolutions. We also transferred $971     million from the nonaccretable difference to
the accretable yield for PCI loans with improving credit-related cash flows and
absorbed $751 million of losses in the nonaccretable difference from loan
resolutions and write-downs. Our cash flows expected to be collected have been
favorably affected by lower than expected defaults and losses as a result of
observed economic strengthening, particularly in housing prices, and by our loan
modification efforts. See the  Real Estate 1-4 Family First and Junior Lien
Mortgage Loans  section in this Report for additional information.     Table 18 provides an analysis of changes in
the nonaccretable difference.  

56   

Table 18:  Changes in Nonaccretable Difference for PCI Loans   

Other   

(in millions)  

Commercial   

Pick-a-Pay   

consumer   

Total   

Balance, December 31, 2008  

$   

10,410   

26,485   

4,069   

40,964   

Addition of nonaccretable difference due to acquisitions  

188   

-   

-   

188   

Release of nonaccretable difference due to:  

Loans resolved by settlement with borrower (1)  

(1,345)   

-   

-   

(1,345)   

Loans resolved by sales to third parties (2)  

(299)   

-   

(85)   

(384)   

Reclassification to accretable yield for loans with improving
  credit-related cash flows (3)  

(1,216)   

(2,383)   

(614)   

(4,213)   

Use of nonaccretable difference due to:  

Losses from loan resolutions and write-downs (4)  

(6,809)   

(14,976)   

(2,718)   

(24,503)   

Balance, December 31, 2011  

929   

9,126   

652   

10,707   

Addition of nonaccretable difference due to acquisitions  

7   

-   

-   

7   

Release of nonaccretable difference due to:  

Loans resolved by settlement with borrower (1)  

(81)   

-   

-   

(81)   

Loans resolved by sales to third parties (2)  

(4)   

-   

-   

(4)   

Reclassification to accretable yield for loans with improving
  credit-related cash flows (3)  

(315)   

(648)   

(178)   

(1,141)   

Use of nonaccretable difference due to:  

Losses from loan resolutions and write-downs (4)  

(114)   

(2,246)   

(164)   

(2,524)   

Balance, December 31, 2012   

422    

6,232    

310    

6,964    

Addition of nonaccretable difference due to acquisitions   

18    

-    

-    

18    

Release of nonaccretable difference due to:   

Loans resolved by settlement with borrower (1)   

(86)    

-    

-    

(86)    

Loans resolved by sales to third parties (2)   

(5)    

-    

-    

(5)    

Reclassification to accretable yield for loans with improving credit-related
  cash flows (3)   

(74)    

(866)    

(31)    

(971)    

Use of nonaccretable difference due to:   

Losses from loan resolutions and write-downs (4)   

(10)    

(662)    

(79)    

(751)    

Balance, December 31, 2013   

$   

265    

4,704    

200    

5,169    

(1)  

Release of the nonaccretable difference for settlement with
  borrower, on individually accounted PCI loans, increases interest income in
  the period of settlement. Pick-a-Pay and Other consumer PCI loans do not
  reflect nonaccretable difference releases for settlements with borrowers due
  to pool accounting for those loans, which assumes that the amount received
  approximates the pool performance expectations.  

(2)  

Release of the nonaccretable difference as a result of sales to
  third parties increases noninterest income in the period of the sale.  

(3)  

Reclassification of nonaccretable difference to accretable yield
  for loans with increased cash flow estimates will result in increased
  interest income as a prospective yield adjustment over the remaining life of
  the loan or pool of loans.   

(4)  

Write-downs to net realizable value of PCI loans are absorbed by
  the nonaccretable difference when severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or
  other indications of severe borrower financial stress exist that indicate
  there will be a loss of contractually due amounts upon final resolution of
  the loan. Also includes foreign exchange adjustments related to underlying
  principal for which the nonaccretable difference was established.  

Since December 31, 2008, we have released $8.2
billion in nonaccretable difference, including $6.3 billion transferred from
the nonaccretable difference to the accretable yield and $1.9 billion
released to income through loan resolutions. Also, we have provided $1.7
billion for losses on certain PCI loans or pools of PCI loans that have had
credit-related decreases to cash flows expected to be collected. The net result
is a $6.5 billion reduction from December 31, 2008, through   December 31, 2013  , in our initial projected losses of $41.0 billion on
all PCI loans.  

At   December
31, 2013  , the allowance for
credit losses on certain PCI loans was $30 million. The allowance is to absorb
credit-related decreases in cash flows expected to be collected and primarily
relates to individual PCI commercial loans. Table 19 analyzes the actual and
projected loss results on PCI loans since acquisition through   December 31, 2013  .   

  For additional information on PCI loans,   see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies   Loans)     and Note 6
(Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report  .   

57   

Risk

Management   Credit Risk              Management        (continued)              

Table 19:  Actual and Projected Loss Results on PCI Loans Since
  Acquisition of Wachovia   

Other   

(in millions)  

Commercial   

Pick-a-Pay   

consumer   

Total   

Release of nonaccretable difference due to:  

Loans resolved by settlement with borrower (1)  

$   

1,512   

-   

-   

1,512   

Loans resolved by sales to third parties (2)  

308   

-   

85   

393   

Reclassification to accretable yield for loans with improving
  credit-related cash flows (3)  

1,605   

3,897   

823   

6,325   

Total releases of nonaccretable difference due to better than
  expected losses  

3,425   

3,897   

908   

8,230   

Provision for losses due to credit deterioration (4)  

(1,641)   

-   

(107)   

(1,748)   

Actual and projected losses on PCI loans less than originally
  expected  

$   

1,784   

3,897   

801   

6,482   

(1)  

Release of the nonaccretable difference for settlement with
  borrower, on individually accounted PCI loans, increases interest income in
  the period of settlement. Pick-a-Pay and Other consumer PCI loans do not
  reflect nonaccretable difference releases for settlements with borrowers due
  to pool accounting for those loans, which assumes that the amount received
  approximates the pool performance expectations.  

(2)  

Release of the nonaccretable difference as a result of sales to
  third parties increases noninterest income in the period of the sale.  

(3)  

Reclassification of nonaccretable difference to accretable yield
  for loans with increased cash flow estimates will result in increased
  interest income as a prospective yield adjustment over the remaining life of
  the loan or pool of loans.   

(4)  

Provision for additional losses is recorded as a charge to
  income when it is estimated that the cash flows expected to be collected for
  a PCI loan or pool of loans may not support full realization of the carrying
  value.  

Significant Loan Portfolio Reviews     
     Measuring and monitoring our
credit risk is an ongoing process that tracks delinquencies, collateral values,
FICO scores, economic trends by geographic areas, loan-level risk grading for
certain portfolios (typically commercial) and other indications of credit risk.
Our credit risk monitoring process is designed to enable early identification
of developing risk and to support our determination of an appropriate allowance
for credit losses. The following discussion provides additional characteristics
and analysis of our significant portfolios. See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for
Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for more analysis and
credit metric information.  

Commercial AND
INDUSTRIAL Loans and Lease Financing       For
purposes of portfolio risk management, we aggregate commercial and industrial
loans and lease financing according to market segmentation
and standard industry codes. Table 20 summarizes commercial and
industrial loans and lease financing by industry with the related nonaccrual totals.
We generally subject commercial and industrial loans and lease financing to
individual risk assessment using our internal borrower and collateral quality
ratings. Our ratings are aligned to regulatory definitions of pass and
criticized categories with criticized divided between special mention,
substandard and doubtful categories.  

  The commercial and industrial loans and
lease financing portfolio, which totaled $209.2     billion or 25% of total loans at December     31, 2013,      generally experienced credit improvement in 2013. The
net charge-off rate for this portfolio declined to     0.18% in 2013 from     0.46% in 2012.     At December     31,     2013, 0.37% of this portfolio was nonaccruing compared with
0.72% at December 31,     2012.   
  In addition, $15.5     billion of this portfolio was     rated as criticized in accordance with
regulatory guidance at December     31,     2013, down from $19.0 billion at
December     31,     2012.   

  A majority of our commercial and industrial loans and
lease financing portfolio is secured by short-term assets, such as accounts
receivable, inventory and securities, as well as long-lived assets, such as
equipment and other business assets. Generally, the collateral securing this
portfolio represents a secondary source of repayment. See Note 6 (Loans and
Allowance for Credit Losses)     to
Financial Statements in this Report for additional credit metric information.  

*         Less than 1%.  

  (1)      Includes $215 million
PCI loans, which are considered to be accruing due to the existence of the
accretable yield and not based on consideration given to contractual interest
payments.  

  (2)      No other single
category had loans in excess of $4.8     billion.   

Risk mitigation actions,
including the restructuring of repayment terms, securing collateral or guarantees,
and entering into extensions, are based on a re-underwriting of the loan and
our assessment of the borrower s ability to perform under the agreed-upon
terms. Extension terms generally range from six to thirty-six months and may
require that the borrower provide additional economic support in the form of
partial repayment, or additional collateral or guarantees. In cases where the
value of collateral or financial condition of the borrower is insufficient to
repay our loan, we may rely upon the support of an outside repayment guarantee
in providing the extension.  

  Our ability to seek performance
under a guarantee is directly related to the guarantor s creditworthiness,
capacity and willingness to perform, which is evaluated on an annual basis, or
more frequently as warranted. Our evaluation is based on the most current
financial information available and is focused on various key financial
metrics, including net worth, leverage, and current and future liquidity. We
consider the guarantor s reputation, creditworthiness, and willingness to work
with us based on our analysis as well as other lenders  experience with the
guarantor. Our assessment of the guarantor s credit strength is reflected in
our loan risk ratings for such loans. The loan      

58   

risk
rating and accruing status are important factors in our allowance methodology.  

  In considering the accrual
status of the loan, we evaluate the collateral and future cash flows as well as
the anticipated support of any repayment guarantor. In many cases the strength
of the guarantor provides sufficient assurance that full repayment of the loan
is expected. When full and timely collection of the loan becomes uncertain,
including the performance of the guarantor, we place the loan on nonaccrual
status. As appropriate, we also charge the loan down in accordance with our
charge-off policies, generally to the net realizable value of the collateral
securing the loan, if any.  

  A  t the time of any modification of terms or extensions
of maturity, we evaluate whether the loan should be classified as a TDR, and
account for it accordingly. For more information on TDRs, see  Troubled Debt
Restructurings  later in this section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for
Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.    
Commercial Real Estate (CRE)     The
CRE portfolio totaled $123.8 billion, or 15% of total loans at December 31,
2013, and consisted of  
  $107.1     billion of mortgage loans and $16.7     billion of construction loans.     Table 21  
summarizes CRE loans by state and property type with the related nonaccrual
totals. The   portfolio is diversified both
geographically and by property type.     The
largest geographic concentrations of combined CRE loans are in California (28%
of the total CRE portfolio), and in Florida and Texas (8% in each state). By
property type, the largest concentrations are office buildings at 28% and apartments
at 13% of the portfolio.  
  CRE nonaccrual loans totaled 2.2%
of the CRE outstanding balance at   December
31, 2013, compared with   3.5%   at December 31, 2012  .      At December
31, 2013, we had $11.8 billion of criticized CRE mortgage loans, down from
$18.8     billion at December 31, 2012, and $2.0 billion of
criticized CRE construction loans, down from $4.5     billion
at December 31, 2012.   See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit
Losses) to Financial Statements
in this Report for additional     information
on criticized loans.      

  At   December 31, 2013,   the recorded investment in PCI
CRE loans totaled $1.6     billion,
down     from
$12.3     billion
when acquired at December 31, 2008, reflecting principal payments, loan
resolutions and write-downs.  

FOREIGN
Loans and country risk         exposure     
  We
classify loans for financial statement and certain regulatory purposes as
foreign primarily based on whether the borrower s primary address is outside of
the United States. At December 31, 2013, foreign loans totaled $47.7 billion,
representing approximately 6% of our total consolidated loans outstanding,
compared with $37.8 billion, or approximately 5% of total consolidated loans
outstanding, at December 31, 2012. A significant portion of the growth in
foreign loans was due to the acquisition of CRE loans in the U.K. in third
quarter 2013. Foreign loans were approximately     3% of our      

59   

Risk

Management   Credit Risk              Management        (continued)              

consolidated total assets at December 31, 2013 and at
December 31, 2012.  

  Our foreign country risk monitoring
process incorporates frequent dialogue with our financial institution
customers, counterparties and regulatory agencies, enhanced by centralized
monitoring of macroeconomic and capital markets conditions in the respective
countries. We establish exposure limits for each country through a centralized
oversight process based on customer needs, and in consideration of relevant
economic, political, social, legal, and transfer risks. We monitor exposures
closely and adjust our country limits in response to changing conditions.  

We evaluate our individual
country risk exposure on an ultimate country of risk basis, which is normally
based on the country of residence of the guarantor or collateral location, and
is different from the reporting based on the borrower s primary address. Our
largest single foreign country exposure on an ultimate risk basis at December
31, 2013, was the United Kingdom, which totaled $21.1 billion, or approximately
1% of our total assets, and included $3.0 billion of sovereign claims. Our
United Kingdom sovereign claims arise primarily from deposits we have placed
with the Bank of England pursuant to regulatory requirements in support of our
London branch.  

  We conduct periodic stress tests
of our significant country risk exposures, analyzing the direct and indirect
impacts on the risk of loss from various macroeconomic and capital markets
scenarios. We do not have significant exposure to foreign country risks because
our foreign portfolio is relatively small.     However, we have
identified exposure to increased loss from U.S. borrowers associated with the
potential impact of a regional or worldwide economic downturn on the U.S.
economy. We mitigate these potential impacts on the risk of loss through our
normal risk management processes which include active monitoring and, if
necessary, the application of aggressive loss mitigation strategies.  

  Table 22     provides information
regarding our top 20 exposures by country (excluding the U.S.) and our Eurozone
exposure, on an ultimate risk basis.   

60   

Real Estate 1-4
Family FIRST AND JUNIOR LIEN Mortgage Loans    
  Our
real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgage loans primarily include
loans we have made to customers and retained as part of our asset liability
management strategy. These loans include the Pick-a-Pay portfolio acquired from
Wachovia and the home equity portfolio, which are discussed later in this
Report. These loans also include other purchased loans and loans included on
our balance sheet due to the adoption of consolidation accounting guidance
related to variable interest entities (VIEs).   

  Our underwriting and periodic
review of loans secured by residential real estate collateral includes
appraisals or estimates from automated valuation models (AVMs) to support
property values. AVMs
are computer-based tools used to estimate the market value of homes. AVMs are a
lower-cost alternative to appraisals and support valuations of large numbers of
properties in a short period of time using market comparables and price trends
for local market areas. The primary risk associated with the use of AVMs is
that the value of an individual property may vary significantly from the
average for the market area. We have processes to periodically validate AVMs
and specific risk management guidelines addressing the circumstances when AVMs
may be used. AVMs are generally used in underwriting to support property values
on loan originations only where the loan amount is under $250,000. We generally
require property visitation appraisals by a qualified independent appraiser for
larger residential property loans.  

  Some of our real estate 1-4
family first and junior lien mortgage loans include an interest-only feature as
part of the loan terms. These interest-only loans were approximately     15% of total loans at December
31, 2013, compared with 18% at December 31, 2012.   

  We believe we have manageable
adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) reset risk across our owned mortgage loan
portfolios.   We
do not offer option ARM products, nor do we offer variable-rate mortgage
products with fixed payment amounts, commonly referred to within the financial
services industry as negative amortizing mortgage loans. Our liquidating option
ARM loans are included in the Pick-a-Pay portfolio which was acquired from
Wachovia. Since our acquisition of the Pick-a-Pay loan portfolio at the end of
2008, we have reduced the option payment portion of the portfolio, from 86% to 44%
at December 31, 2013. For more information, see the  Pick-a-Pay Portfolio 
section in this Report.  

  We
continue to modify real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans to assist homeowners
and other borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. Loans are underwritten
at the time of the modification in accordance with underwriting guidelines
established for governmental and proprietary loan modification programs. As a
participant in the U.S. Treasury s Making Home Affordable (MHA) programs, we
are focused on helping customers stay in their homes. The MHA programs      

61   

Risk

Management   Credit Risk              Management        (continued)              

create a standardization of modification terms including
incentives paid to borrowers, servicers, and investors. MHA includes the Home
Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) for first lien loans and the Second Lien
Modification Program (2MP) for junior lien loans. Under both our proprietary
programs and the MHA programs, we may provide concessions such as interest rate
reductions, forbearance of principal, and in some cases, principal forgiveness.
These programs generally include trial payment periods of three to four months,
and after successful completion and compliance with terms during this period,
the loan is permanently modified. Once the loan enters a trial period or
permanent modification, it is accounted for as a TDR. See the  Critical
Accounting Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses  section in this Report for
discussion on how we determine the allowance attributable to our modified
residential real estate portfolios.  

  Real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgage
loans by state are presented in Table 23. Our real estate 1-4 family mortgage
loans to borrowers in California represented approximately 13% of total loans
at December 31, 2013, located mostly within the larger metropolitan areas,
with no single California metropolitan area consisting of more than 3% of total
loans. We monitor changes in real estate values and underlying economic or
market conditions for all geographic areas of our real estate 1-4 family
mortgage portfolio as part of our credit risk management process.  

  We monitor the credit performance
of our junior lien mortgage portfolio for trends and factors that influence the
frequency and severity of loss. In 2012, we aligned our nonaccrual reporting with
Interagency Guidance issued by bank regulators so that a junior lien is
reported as a nonaccrual loan if the related first lien is 120 days past due or
is in the process of foreclosure, regardless of delinquency status. Additionally,
in third quarter 2012, we aligned our nonaccrual and troubled debt
reclassification policies in accordance with guidance in the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency (OCC) update to the Bank Accounting Advisory Series (OCC Guidance),  
  which requires consumer
loans discharged in bankruptcy to be written down to net realizable collateral
value and classified as nonaccrual TDRs, regardless of their delinquency
status.   

*         Less than 1%.  

  (1)      Consists of 45 states;
no state had loans in excess of $614 million.  

  (2)      Consists of 41 states;
no state had loans in excess of $7.1 billion.  

  (3)      Represents loans whose
repayments are predominantly insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA)
or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).  

Part of our credit monitoring
includes tracking delinquency, FICO scores and collateral values (LTV/CLTV) on
the entire real estate 1-4 family mortgage loan portfolio.   These credit risk
indicators,     which exclude government insured/guaranteed loans,     continued
to improve in fourth quarter     2013 on the non-PCI mortgage
portfolio.   Loans 30
days or more delinquent at December 31, 2013, totaled $11.9 billion, or 4%, of
total non-PCI mortgages, compared with $15.5 billion, or     5%, at December 31, 2012. Loans
with FICO scores lower than 640 totaled $31.5 billion at December 31, 2013, or 10%
of total non-PCI mortgages, compared with $37.7 billion, or 13%, at December
31, 2012. Mortgages with a LTV/CLTV greater than 100% totaled $34.3 billion
at December 31, 2013, or 11% of total non-PCI mortgages, compared with $58.7
billion, or 20%, at December 31, 2012. Information regarding credit risk
indicators can be found in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to
Financial Statements in this Report.  

62   

Pick a Pay Portfolio    
  The
Pick-a-Pay portfolio was one of the consumer residential first mortgage
portfolios we acquired from Wachovia and a majority of the portfolio was
identified as PCI loans.  

  The Pick-a-Pay portfolio includes
loans that offer payment options (Pick-a-Pay option payment loans), and also
includes loans that were originated without the option payment feature, loans
that no longer offer the option feature as a result of our modification efforts
since the acquisition, and loans where the customer voluntarily converted to a
fixed-rate product. The Pick-a-Pay portfolio is included in the consumer real
estate 1-4 family first mortgage class of loans throughout this Report. Real
estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgages and lines of credit associated with
Pick-a-Pay loans are reported in the home equity portfolio. Table 24   provides balances by types of
loans as of December 31, 2013, as a result of modification efforts, compared to
the types of loans included in the portfolio at acquisition.     Total adjusted unpaid principal
balance of PCI Pick-a-Pay loans was $28.8 billion at December 31, 2013,
compared with $61.0 billion at acquisition. Modification efforts have largely involved
option payment PCI loans, which, based on adjusted unpaid principal balance,  
  have declined to 17% of the
total Pick-a-Pay portfolio at December 31, 2013, compared with 51% at
acquisition.  

Pick-a-Pay loans may have fixed
or adjustable rates with payment options that include a minimum payment, an
interest-only payment or fully amortizing payment (both 15 and 30 year
options). Total interest deferred due to negative amortization on Pick-a-Pay
loans was $902     million at December 31, 2013, and
$1.4 billion at December 31, 2012. Approximately 93% of the Pick-a-Pay
customers making a minimum payment in December 2013 did not defer interest, compared
with 90% in December 2012  .   

  Deferral of interest on a
Pick-a-Pay loan may continue as long as the loan balance remains below a
pre-defined principal cap, which is based on the percentage that the current
loan balance represents to the original loan balance. The majority of the
Pick-a-Pay portfolio has a cap of 125% of the original loan balance. Most of
the Pick-a-Pay loans on which there is a deferred interest balance re-amortize
(the monthly payment amount is reset or  recast ) on the earlier of the date
when the loan balance reaches its principal cap, or generally the 10-year
anniversary of the loan. After a recast, the customers  new payment terms are
reset to the amount necessary to repay the balance over the remainder of the
original loan term.  

  Due to the terms of the Pick-a-Pay portfolio, there
is little recast risk in the near term where borrowers will have a payment
change over 7.5%. Based on assumptions of a flat rate environment, if all
eligible customers elect the minimum payment option 100% of the time and no
balances prepay, we would expect the following balances of loans to recast
based on reaching the principal cap and also experiencing a payment change over
the annual 7.5% reset: $40 million in 2014, $69 million in 2015 and $45
million in 2016. In addition, in a flat rate environment, we would expect the
following balances of loans to start fully amortizing due to reaching their
recast anniversary date and also having a payment change over the annual 7.5%
reset: $211     million
in 2014, $411 million in 2015 and $470 million in 2016. In 2013, the amount of
loans reaching their recast anniversary date and also having a payment change
over the annual 7.5% reset was $36     million.   

  Table 25 reflects the geographic distribution of the
Pick-a-Pay portfolio broken out between PCI loans and all other loans. The LTV
ratio is a useful metric in predicting future real estate 1-4 family first
mortgage loan performance, including potential charge-offs. Because PCI loans
were initially recorded at fair value, including write-downs for expected
credit losses, the ratio of the carrying value to the current collateral value
will be lower compared with the LTV based on the adjusted unpaid principal
balance. For informational purposes, we have included both ratios for PCI loans
in the following table.  

63   

Risk

Management   Credit Risk              Management        (continued)              

Table 25:  Pick-a-Pay Portfolio (1)   

December
  31, 2013  

PCI
  loans   

All
  other loans   

Ratio
  of   

Ratio
  of   

Adjusted   

carrying   

carrying   

unpaid   

Current   

value
  to   

value
  to   

principal   

LTV   

Carrying   

current   

Carrying   

current   

(in millions)  

balance
  (2)   

ratio
  (3)   

value
  (4)   

value
  (5)   

value
  (4)   

value
  (5)   

California  

$  

19,797   

89   

%   

$   

16,213   

72   

%   

$   

13,219   

65   

%   

Florida  

2,395   

98   

1,827   

69   

2,764   

80   

New Jersey  

1,029   

87   

974   

74   

1,770   

74   

New York  

609   

84   

592   

73   

797   

73   

Texas  

266   

70   

241   

62   

1,081   

56   

Other states  

4,704   

89   

4,001   

74   

7,492   

75   

Total Pick-a-Pay loans  

$   

28,800   

$   

23,848   

$   

27,123   

(1)  

The individual states shown in this table represent the top five
  states based on the total net carrying value of the Pick-a-Pay loans at the
  beginning of 2013.  

(2)  

Adjusted unpaid principal balance includes write-downs taken on
  loans where severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or other indications of
  severe borrower financial stress exist that indicate there will be a loss of
  contractually due amounts upon final resolution of the loan.  

(3)  

The current LTV ratio is calculated as the adjusted unpaid
  principal balance divided by the collateral value. Collateral values are
  generally determined using automated valuation models (AVM) and are updated
  quarterly. AVMs are computer-based tools used to estimate market values of
  homes based on processing large volumes of market data including market
  comparables and price trends for local market areas.  

(4)  

Carrying value, which does not reflect the allowance for loan
  losses, includes remaining purchase accounting adjustments, which, for PCI
  loans may include the nonaccretable difference and the accretable yield and,
  for all other loans, an adjustment to mark the loans to a market yield at
  date of merger less any subsequent charge-offs.  

(5)  

The ratio of carrying value to current value is calculated as
  the carrying value divided by the collateral value.  

To
maximize return and allow flexibility for customers to avoid foreclosure, we
have in place several loss mitigation strategies for our Pick-a-Pay loan
portfolio. We contact customers who are experiencing financial difficulty and
may in certain cases modify the terms of a loan based on a customer s
documented income and other circumstances.  

  We
also have taken steps to work with customers to refinance or restructure their
Pick-a-Pay loans into other loan products. For customers at risk, we offer
combinations of term extensions of up to 40 years (from 30 years), interest
rate reductions, forbearance of principal, and, in geographies with substantial
property value declines, we may offer permanent principal forgiveness.  

  In
2013, we completed more than 11,800     proprietary and Home Affordability Modification
Program (HAMP) Pick-a-Pay loan modifications. We have completed more than 123,000     modifications
since the Wachovia acquisition, resulting in $5.8 billion of principal
forgiveness to our Pick-a-Pay customers as well as an additional $229     million of
conditional forgiveness that can be earned by borrowers through performance
over a three year period.   

  Due to better than expected performance observed on the Pick-a-Pay
PCI portfolio compared with the original acquisition estimates, we have
reclassified $3.9 billion from the nonaccretable   difference to the accretable yield
since acquisition, including $866 million in 2013. Our cash flows expected to
be collected have been favorably affected by lower expected defaults and losses
as a result of observed and forecasted economic strengthening, particularly in
housing prices, and our loan modification efforts.  
These factors are expected to reduce the frequency and severity of defaults and
keep these loans performing for a longer period, thus increasing future
principal and interest cash flows. The resulting increase in the accretable
yield will be realized over the remaining life of the portfolio, which is
estimated to have a weighted-average remaining life of approximately     12.7     years
at December 31, 2013. The accretable yield percentage at December 31, 2013
was 4.98%, up from 4.70% at the end of 2012 due to increased cash flows from
improved economic outlook and credit trends. Fluctuations in the accretable
yield are driven by changes in interest rate indices for variable rate PCI
loans, prepayment assumptions, and expected principal and interest payments
over the estimated life of the portfolio, which will be affected by the pace
and degree of improvements in the U.S. economy and housing markets and
projected     lifetime performance
resulting from loan modification activity. Changes in the projected timing of
cash flow events, including loan liquidations, modifications and short sales,
can also affect the accretable yield rate and the estimated weighted-average
life of the portfolio.  

  The Pick-a-Pay portfolio includes a significant portion of our PCI
loans. For further information on the judgment involved in estimating expected
cash flows for PCI loans,  see the      Critical Accounting
Policies   Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans  section and Note 1 (Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report.  

64   

Home
Equity Portfolios       Our home equity portfolios     consist of real estate
1-4 family junior lien mortgages and first and junior lien lines of credit
secured by real estate. Our first lien lines of credit represent 22% of our
home equity portfolio and are included in real estate 1-4 family first
mortgages. The majority of our junior lien loan products are amortizing payment
loans with fixed interest rates and repayment periods between five to 30 years.      

  Our first and junior lien lines
of credit products generally have a draw period of 10 years (with some up to 15
or 20 years)     with variable interest rate and payment options
during the draw period of (1) interest only or (2) 1.5% of outstanding
principal balance plus accrued interest.     During the draw
period, the borrower has the option of converting all or a portion of the line
from a variable interest rate to a fixed rate with terms including
interest-only payments for a fixed period between three to seven years or a
fully amortizing payment with a fixed period between five to 30 years. At the
end of the draw period, a line of credit generally converts to an amortizing
payment schedule with repayment terms of up to 30 years based on the balance at
time of conversion. Certain lines and loans have been structured with a balloon
payment, which requires full repayment of the outstanding balance at the end of
the term period. The conversion of lines or loans to fully amortizing or
balloon payoff may result in a significant payment increase, which can affect
some borrowers  ability to repay the outstanding balance.  

  The lines that enter their
amortization period may experience higher delinquencies and higher loss rates
than the ones in their draw or term period.     We have considered
this increased inherent risk in our allowance for credit loss estimate.   

  In anticipation of our borrowers     reaching
the end of their contractual commitment, we have created a program     to
inform, educate and help these borrowers transition from interest-only to
fully-amortizing payments or full repayment.     We monitor the performance
of the borrowers moving through the program in an effort to refine our ongoing
program strategy.  

  Table 26     reflects the
outstanding balance of our home equity portfolio segregated into scheduled end
of draw or end of term periods and products that are currently amortizing, or
in balloon     repayment status. It excludes real estate 1-4 family
first lien line reverse mortgages, which total     $2.4 billion,     because
they are predominantly insured by the FHA, and     it excludes PCI loans,
which total $156 million,     because their losses were
generally     reflected in     our nonaccretable
difference established at the date of acquisition.  

65   

Risk

Management   Credit Risk              Management        (continued)              

We
continuously monitor the credit performance of our junior lien mortgage
portfolio for trends and factors that influence the frequency and severity of
loss. We have observed that the severity of loss for junior lien mortgages is
high and generally not affected by whether we or a third party own or service
the related first mortgage, but that the frequency of loss has historically
been lower when we own or service the first mortgage. In general, we have
limited information available on the delinquency status of the third party
owned or serviced senior lien where we also hold a junior lien. To capture this
inherent loss content, we use the experience of our junior lien mortgages
behind delinquent first liens that are owned or serviced by us adjusted for observed
higher delinquency rates associated with junior lien mortgages behind third
party first mortgages. We incorporate this inherent loss content into our
allowance for loan losses. Our allowance process for junior liens ensures
appropriate consideration of the relative difference in loss experience for
junior liens behind first lien mortgage loans we own or service, compared with
those behind first lien mortgage loans owned or serviced by third parties. In
addition, our allowance process for junior liens that are current, but are in
their revolving period, appropriately reflects the inherent loss where the
borrower is delinquent on the corresponding first lien mortgage loans.   

  Table 27 summarizes
delinquency and loss rates for our junior lien mortgages and lines by the
holder of the first lien.   

We monitor the number of borrowers paying
the minimum amount due on a monthly basis. In December     2013, approximately 94% of our borrowers with a home
equity outstanding balance paid the minimum amount due or more, while
approximately 45% paid only the minimum amount due.   

     The home equity liquidating portfolio
includes home equity loans generated through third party channels, including
correspondent loans. This liquidating portfolio represents less than 1% of our
total loans outstanding at December 31, 2013, and contains some of the highest
risk in our home equity portfolio, with a     loss rate of 4.80% compared with 1.43% for the core
(non-liquidating) home equity portfolio for the year ended     December     31, 2013.  

66   

Table 28 shows
the credit attributes of the core and liquidating home equity portfolios and
lists the top five states by outstanding balance for the core portfolio. Loans
to California borrowers represent the largest state concentration in each of
these portfolios. The decrease in outstanding balances since December 31, 2012 primarily
reflects loan paydowns and charge-offs. As of December     31, 2013, 23% of the outstanding balance of the core
home equity portfolio was associated with loans that had a combined loan to
value (CLTV) ratio in excess of 100%. CLTV means the ratio of the total
loan balance of first mortgages and junior lien mortgages (including unused
line amounts for credit line products) to property collateral value. The
unsecured portion of the outstanding balances of these loans (the outstanding
amount that was in excess of the most recent property collateral value) totaled     9% of the core home equity portfolio at December
31, 2013.  

Credit Cards    
  Our credit card portfolio totaled
$26.9 billion at December 31, 2013, which represented 3% of our total
outstanding loans. The net charge-off rate     for our credit card portfolio was 3.62% for 2013, compared
with 4.02% for 2012.  

AUTOmobile    
  Our
automobile portfolio, predominantly     composed
of indirect loans, totaled $50.8 billion at December 31, 2013.   The net charge-off rate
for our automobile portfolio   was
0.63% for 2013, compared with 0.64% for     2012.   

Other revolving
Credit and installment       Other revolving credit and
installment loans totaled $43.0
billion at December 31, 2013,   and
primarily     included student and security-based margin loans.     Student
loans totaled $22.0 billion at     December 31, 2013  , of which $10.7
billion were government guaranteed.     The net charge-off
rate for other revolving credit and installment loans was 1.43  % for 2013, compared with   1.38  % for 2012.   Excluding government
guaranteed student loans, the net charge-off rates     were 1.88  % for 2013     and   1.96  % for 2012  , respectively.   

67   

Risk

Management   Credit Risk              Management        (continued)              

nonperforming
assets (Nonaccrual Loans and Foreclosed assets)            Table 29     summarizes
nonperforming assets (NPAs) for each of the last five years.   We generally place loans on
nonaccrual status when:   

the full and
timely collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain (generally based
on an assessment of the borrower s financial condition and the adequacy of
collateral, if any);   

they are 90
days (120 days with respect to real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien
mortgages) past due for interest or principal, unless both well-secured and in
the process of collection;  

part of the
principal balance has been charged off (including loans discharged in
bankruptcy);  

for
junior lien mortgages, we have evidence that the related first lien mortgage
may be 120 days past due or in the process of foreclosure regardless of the junior
lien delinquency status  ;
or  

performing
consumer loans are     discharged
in bankruptcy, regardless of their delinquency status.  

Note 1 (Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies   Loans) to Financial Statements in this Report describes
our accounting policy for nonaccrual and impaired loans.   

68   

69   

Risk

Management   Credit Risk              Management        (continued)              

Table 31
provides an analysis of the changes in nonaccrual loans.  

Typically, changes to nonaccrual loans period-over-period   represent inflows for
loans that are placed on nonaccrual status in accordance with our policy,
offset by reductions for loans that are paid down, charged off, sold,
transferred to foreclosed properties, or are no longer classified as nonaccrual
as a result of continued performance and an improvement in the borrower s
financial condition and loan repayment capabilities. Also, reductions can come from
borrower repayments even if the loan remains on nonaccrual.  

  While nonaccrual loans are not free of loss content,
we believe exposure to loss is significantly mitigated by the following factors
at December 31, 2013:  

97% of total
commercial nonaccrual loans and 99% of total consumer nonaccrual loans are
secured. Of the
consumer nonaccrual loans, 98% are secured by real estate and 64% have a
combined LTV (CLTV) ratio of 80% or less.   

losses of  
  $938 million and $3.9
billion     have already
been recognized on 35% of commercial nonaccrual loans and     52% of consumer nonaccrual loans,
respectively. Generally,
when a consumer real estate loan is 120 days past due (except when required
earlier by the Interagency or OCC Guidance), we transfer it to nonaccrual
status. When the loan reaches 180 days past due, or is discharged in
bankruptcy, it is our policy to write these loans down to net realizable value
(fair value of collateral less estimated costs to sell), except for
modifications in their trial period that are not written down as long as trial
payments are made on time. Thereafter, we reevaluate each loan regularly and
record additional write-downs if needed.  

66% of
commercial nonaccrual loans were current on interest.   

the risk of
loss of all nonaccrual loans has been considered and we believe is adequately
covered by the allowance for loan losses.      

$2.3      billion of     consumer loans discharged in
bankruptcy and classified     as
nonaccrual were 60 days or less past due, of which $2.1 billion were current.  

We continue to work with our
customers experiencing financial difficulty to determine if they can qualify
for a loan modification so that they can stay in their homes. Under both our
proprietary modification programs and the MHA programs, customers may be required
to provide updated documentation, and some programs require completion of payment
during trial periods to demonstrate sustained performance before the loan can
be removed from nonaccrual status. In addition, for loans in foreclosure, some
states, including California, Oregon and Massachusetts, have recently enacted
legislation or the courts have changed the foreclosure process in a manner that
significantly increases the time     to complete the
foreclosure process;     therefore loans remain in nonaccrual
status for longer periods. In certain other states, including New York, New
Jersey     and
Florida, the foreclosure timeline has significantly increased due to backlogs
in an already complex process.      

  If interest due on all nonaccrual
loans (including loans that were, but are no longer on nonaccrual at year end)
had been accrued under the original terms, approximately $764 million of
interest would have been recorded as income on these loans, compared with $575
million actually recorded as interest income in 2013, versus $938 million and
$406 million, respectively, in 2012.  

70   

Table 32 provides a summary of
foreclosed assets and an analysis of changes in foreclosed assets.  

Foreclosed assets at December 31, 2013, included $2.1     billion of foreclosed real estate
that is predominantly
FHA insured or VA guaranteed and expected to have minimal     or no loss content. The remaining
balance of $1.8     billion
of foreclosed assets has been written down to estimated net realizable value.
Foreclosed assets at December 31, 2013 were stable,     compared with     December 31, 2012.   At   December 31, 2013,     68%    of foreclosed assets of $3.9 billion
have been in the foreclosed assets portfolio one year or less.  

  Given our real estate-secured loan concentrations,
current economic conditions, and recent changes to loan modification programs
slowing down foreclosures in prior periods, we anticipate continuing to hold an  
  elevated level of foreclosed
assets on our balance sheet.  

71   

Risk

Management   Credit Risk              Management        (continued)              

Table 33 and Table 34     provide information regarding the recorded
investment of loans modified in TDRs.   The allowance
for loan losses for TDRs was $4.5 billion and $5.0 billion at December     31, 2013      and 2012, respectively. See   Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit
Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information
regarding TDRs. In those situations where principal is forgiven, the entire
amount of such forgiveness is immediately charged off to the extent not done so
prior to the modification. We sometimes delay the timing on the repayment of a
portion of principal (principal forbearance) and charge off the amount of
forbearance if that amount is not considered fully collectible.  

72   

Our nonaccrual
policies are generally the same for all loan types when a restructuring is
involved. We re-underwrite loans at the time of restructuring to determine
whether there is sufficient evidence of sustained repayment capacity based on
the borrower s documented income, debt to income ratios, and other factors.
Loans lacking sufficient evidence of sustained repayment capacity at the time
of modification are charged down to the fair value of the collateral, if
applicable. For an accruing loan that has been modified, if the borrower has
demonstrated performance under the previous terms and the underwriting process
shows the capacity to continue to perform under the restructured terms, the
loan will generally remain in accruing status. Otherwise, the loan will be
placed in nonaccrual status until the borrower demonstrates a sustained period
of performance, generally six consecutive months of payments, or equivalent,
inclusive of consecutive payments made prior to modification. Loans will also
be placed on nonaccrual, and a corresponding charge-off is recorded to the loan
balance, when we believe that principal and interest contractually due under
the modified agreement will not be collectible.  

  Table 35 provides an analysis of the changes
in TDRs. Loans that may be modified more than once are reported as TDR inflows
only in the period they are first modified.     Other than resolutions such as foreclosures, sales and
transfers to held for sale, we may remove loans held for investment from TDR
classification, but only if they have been refinanced or restructured at market
terms and qualify as a new loan.      

73   

Risk

Management   Credit Risk              Management        (continued)              

Loans 90 Days or
More Past Due and Still AccruinG     Loans 90 days or more past due as to interest or
principal are still accruing if they are (1) well-secured and in the process of
collection or (2) real estate 1 4 family mortgage loans or consumer
loans exempt under regulatory rules from being classified as nonaccrual until
later delinquency, usually 120 days past due. PCI loans are not included in
past due and still accruing loans even though they are 90 days or more
contractually past due. These PCI loans are considered to be accruing because
they continue to earn interest from accretable yield, independent of
performance in accordance with their contractual terms.  

  Excluding insured/guaranteed loans, loans 90
days or more past due and still accruing at December 31, 2013, were down $390     million, or     27%, from December 31, 2012, due to payoffs, modifications
and other loss mitigation activities,     decline in non-strategic and liquidating portfolios, and credit
stabilization.  

  Loans 90 days or more past due and still
accruing whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by
the VA for mortgages and the U.S. Department of Education for student loans
under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) were $22.2     billion at December 31, 2013,     up from $21.8     billion      at
December 31, 2012.  

  Table 36     reflects non-PCI loans 90 days or more past due and
still accruing by class for loans not government insured/guaranteed. For
additional information on delinquencies by loan class, see Note 6 (Loans and
Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.   

74   

75   

Risk

Management   Credit Risk              Management        (continued)              

Table
37 presents net charge-offs for     the
four quarters and full year of     2013
and 2012.     Net
charge-offs in     2013
were $4.5 billion (0.56% of average total loans outstanding) compared with $9.0  
  billion (1.17%) in     2012. We continued to have strong
improvement in our commercial and residential real estate secured portfolios.
Our commercial real estate portfolios were in a net recovery position     every quarter in 2013. Our
consumer real estate portfolios continued to benefit from the improvement in
the housing market with losses down $3.5     billion, or 59%, from 2012.  

Allowance
for Credit Losses       The allowance for credit losses,
which consists of the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for unfunded
credit commitments, is management s estimate of credit losses inherent in the
loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date, excluding
loans carried at fair value. The detail of the changes in the allowance for
credit losses by portfolio segment (including charge-offs and recoveries by
loan class) is in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial
Statements in this Report.   

  We apply
a disciplined process and methodology to establish our allowance for credit
losses each quarter. This process takes into consideration many factors,
including historical and forecasted loss trends, loan-level credit quality
ratings and loan grade-specific loss factors. The process involves subjective
and complex judgments. In addition, we review a variety of credit metrics and
trends. These credit metrics and trends, however, do not solely determine the
amount of the allowance as we use several analytical tools. For additional
information on our allowance for credit losses, see the  Critical Accounting
Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses  section     and      Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies)     and Note 6 (Loans
and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.  

  Table
38 presents the allocation of the allowance for credit losses by loan segment
and class for the last five years.  

76   

77   

Risk

Management   Credit Risk              Management        (continued)              

In
addition to the allowance for credit losses, there was $5.2     billion at December 31,     2013, and     $7.0     billion at
December     31,     2012, of
nonaccretable difference to absorb losses for PCI loans. The allowance for
credit losses is lower than otherwise would have been required without PCI loan
accounting. As a result of PCI loans, certain ratios of the Company may not be
directly comparable with credit-related metrics for other financial
institutions. For additional information on PCI loans, see the  Risk Management
  Credit Risk Management   Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans  section, Note 1
(Summary of Significant Accounting Policies)     and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses)
to Financial Statements in this Report.      

  The
ratio of the allowance for credit losses to total nonaccrual loans may
fluctuate significantly from period to period due to such factors as the mix of
loan types in the portfolio, borrower credit strength and the value and
marketability of collateral. Over one-half of nonaccrual loans were home
mortgages at December 31, 2013.  

  The     allowance for credit
losses again declined in 2013, which reflected continued improvement in
consumer loss severity, delinquency trends and improved portfolio performance,
particularly in residential real estate and primarily associated with continued
improvement in the housing market.     The total provision for credit losses was $2.3     billion in 2013, $7.2 billion
in 2012 and $7.9 billion in 2011.  

  The
2013 provision for credit losses was $2.3 billion, $2.2 billion less than
net charge-offs, due to strong underlying credit, and home prices and market
fundamentals improving faster and in more markets than forecasted.  

  The
2012 provision was $7.2 billion, $1.8 billion less than net charge-offs, and the
2011 provision was $7.9     billion,      $3.4     billion less than
net charge-offs. In each of 2012 and 2011 the provision was influenced by
continually improving credit performance.  

  We believe the
allowance for credit losses of $15.0     billion at December 31,     2013, was
appropriate to cover credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio, including
unfunded credit commitments, at that date. The allowance for credit losses is
subject to change and reflects existing factors as of the date of
determination, including economic or market conditions and ongoing internal and
external examination processes. Due to the sensitivity of the allowance for
credit losses to changes in the economic and business environment, it is
possible that we will incur incremental credit losses not anticipated as of the
balance sheet date.  
  Given
current favorable conditions, we continue to expect future allowance releases,
absent a significant deterioration in the economy. Our process for determining
the allowance for credit losses is discussed in the  Critical Accounting
Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses  section and Note 1 (Summary     of Significant
Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report.  

LIABILITY for
Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses         We sell residential
mortgage loans to various parties, including (1) government-sponsored entities     (GSEs)
Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and Federal National Mortgage
Association (FNMA) who
include the mortgage loans in GSE-guaranteed mortgage securitizations, (2) SPEs
that issue private label MBS, and (3) other financial institutions that
purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. In
addition, we pool FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed mortgage loans that are then used
to back securities guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA).
We may be required to repurchase these mortgage loans, indemnify the
securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the securitization
trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred on loans (collectively,
repurchase) in the event of a breach of contractual representations or
warranties that is not remedied within a period (usually 90 days or less) after
we receive notice of the breach.  

  We have established a mortgage
repurchase liability, initially at fair value, related to various
representations and warranties that reflect management s estimate of losses for
loans for which we could have a repurchase obligation, whether or not we
currently service those loans, based on a combination of factors. Our mortgage
repurchase liability estimation process also incorporates a forecast of
repurchase demands associated with mortgage insurance rescission activity.  

  The overall level of unresolved
repurchase demands and mortgage insurance rescissions outstanding at December
31, 2013, was down from a year ago both in number of outstanding loans and in
total dollar balances as we continued to work through the new demands and
mortgage insurance rescissions and as we announced     settlements with both
FHLMC     and
FNMA in 2013, that resolved substantially all repurchase liabilities associated
with loans sold to FHLMC     prior to January 1, 2009,     and
loans sold to FNMA that were originated prior to January 1, 2009. Table 39 provides
the number of unresolved repurchase demands and mortgage insurance rescissions.  

  Customary with industry practice,
we have the right of recourse against correspondent lenders from whom we have
purchased loans with respect to representations and warranties. Of total
repurchase demands and mortgage insurance rescissions outstanding as of December 31, 2013,
presented in Table 39, approximately 10% relate to loans purchased from
correspondent lenders. Due primarily to the financial difficulties of some correspondent
lenders, we have been recovering on average approximately 45% of losses from
these lenders. Historical recovery rates as well as projected lender
performance are incorporated in the establishment of our mortgage repurchase
liability.  

  We do not typically receive
repurchase requests from GNMA, FHA and the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) or VA. As an originator of an FHA-insured or VA-guaranteed
loan, we are responsible for obtaining the insurance with FHA or the guarantee
with the VA. To the extent we are not able to obtain the insurance or the
guarantee we must request permission to repurchase the loan from the GNMA pool.
Such repurchases from GNMA pools typically represent a self-initiated process
upon discovery of the uninsurable loan (usually within 180 days from
funding of the loan). Alternatively, in lieu of repurchasing loans from GNMA
pools, we may be asked by FHA/HUD or the VA to indemnify them (as applicable)
for defects found in the Post Endorsement Technical Review process or audits
performed by FHA/HUD or the VA. The Post Endorsement Technical Review is a
process whereby HUD performs underwriting audits of      

78   

closed/insured
FHA loans for potential deficiencies. Our liability for mortgage loan
repurchase losses incorporates probable losses associated with such
indemnification.  

79   

Risk

Management   Credit Risk              Management        (continued)              

We believe we
have a high quality residential mortgage loan servicing portfolio. Of the $1.8
trillion in the residential mortgage loan servicing portfolio at December 31,
2013, 94% was current, less than 2% was subprime at origination, and less than 1%
was related to home equity loan securitizations. Our combined delinquency and
foreclosure rate on this portfolio was 6.40% at December 31, 2013, compared
with 7.04% at December 31, 2012. Three percent of this portfolio is private
label securitizations for which we originated the loans and therefore have some
repurchase risk. We have observed an increase in outstanding demands, compared with
December 31, 2012, associated with our pre-2009 private label securitizations
due to an increase in new demands received in     fourth quarter     2013, most of which were anticipated and were covered through mortgage
loan repurchase accruals established in prior periods. Investors continue to
review defaulted loans for potential breaches of our loan sale representations
and warranties, and we continue to believe the risk of repurchase in our
private label securitizations is substantially reduced, relative to third-party
issued private label securitizations, because approximately one-half of this
portfolio of private label securitizations does     not contain representations and warranties regarding
borrower or other third party misrepresentations related to the mortgage loan,
general compliance with underwriting guidelines, or property valuation, which
are commonly asserted bases for repurchase. For the     3% private label securitization segment of our
residential mortgage loan servicing portfolio (weighted-average age of 98 months),
57% are loans from 2005 vintages or earlier; 76% were prime at origination; and
approximately 60% are jumbo loans. The weighted-average LTV as of December 31,
2013 for this private securitization segment was 67%. We believe the highest
risk segment of these private label securitizations is the subprime loans
originated in 2006 and 2007. These subprime loans have seller representations
and warranties and currently have LTVs close to or exceeding 100%, and
represent 10% of the private label securitization portion of the residential
mortgage servicing portfolio. We had $67 million of repurchases related to
private label securitizations in     2013
compared with $180 million in 2012.  

  Of the servicing portfolio, 3% is non-agency
acquired servicing and 1% is private whole loan sales. We did not underwrite
and securitize the non-agency acquired servicing and therefore we have no
obligation on that portion of our servicing portfolio to the investor for any
repurchase demands arising from origination practices. For the private whole
loan segment, while we do have repurchase risk on these loans, less than 2%
were subprime at origination and loans that were sold and subsequently
securitized are included in the private label securitization segment discussed
above.  

  Table 40  
summarizes the changes in our mortgage repurchase liability.     We incurred net losses on repurchased loans and
investor reimbursements totalling $481 million on mortgage loans with original
balances of $1.4 billion in     2013,
excluding the $746 million and the $508 million cash payments for the FHLMC and
FNMA settlement agreements, respectively, compared with net losses of $1.1
billion on mortgage loans with original balances of $2.5 billion for 2012. Both
the FHLMC and FNMA settlement agreements executed in the third and fourth
quarters of 2013, respectively, were covered through mortgage loan repurchase
accruals established in prior periods.  

80   

Our liability for
mortgage repurchases, included in  Accrued expenses and other liabilities  in
our consolidated balance sheet, was $899 million at December 31, 2013 and $2.2 billion at December 31,
2012. In     2013,      we provided $428     million,
which reduced net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities, compared
with a provision of $1.9 billion for 2012 and $1.3 billion for 2011.     Our
provision in 2013 reflected an increase in projected repurchase losses for the
GSE pre-2009 vintages to incorporate the impact of     trends in file requests
and repurchase demand activity observed in the first quarter (comprising
approximately 58% of the 2013 provision), an increase for indemnifications and
specific private investor demands (approximately 8%) and new loan sales
(approximately 34%). Our provision in 2012 reflected an increase in projections
of future GSE repurchase demands, net of appeals, for the pre-2009 vintages to
incorporate the impact of     trends in file requests and
repurchase demand activity (comprising approximately 58% of the 2012
provision), an increase in probable loss estimates for mortgage insurance
rescissions (approximately 10%), new loan sales (approximately 14%), an
increase in probable loss estimates for non-agency risk (approximately 9%), and
various other observed trends affecting our repurchase liability including
higher than anticipated loss severity (approximately 9%). The increase in
projected future GSE repurchase demands in 2012 was predominantly a result of
an increase in the expected file reviews by the GSEs as well as an increase in
observed demand rates on these file reviews based on our     experience
with them at that time.      

  The mortgage repurchase liability
of $899 million at December 31, 2013, represents our best estimate of the
probable loss that we expect to incur for various representations and
warranties in the contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage loans. The
mortgage repurchase liability estimation process requires management to make
difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently
uncertain, including demand expectations, economic factors, and the specific
characteristics of the loans subject to repurchase. Our evaluation considers
all vintages and the collective actions of the GSEs and their regulator, the
Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), mortgage insurers and our correspondent
lenders. We maintain regular contact with the GSEs, the FHFA, and other
significant investors to monitor their repurchase demand practices and issues
as part of our process to update our repurchase liability estimate as new
information becomes available.  

  Because of the uncertainty in the
various estimates underlying the mortgage repurchase liability, there is a
range of losses in excess of the recorded mortgage repurchase liability that
are reasonably possible. The estimate of the range of possible loss for
representations and warranties does not represent a probable loss, and is based
on currently available information, significant judgment, and a number of
assumptions that are subject to change. The high end of this range of
reasonably possible losses in excess of our recorded liability was $896 million
at December 31, 2013, and was determined based upon modifying the assumptions
(particularly to assume significant changes in investor repurchase demand
practices) utilized in our best estimate of probable loss to reflect what we
believe to be the high end of reasonably possible adverse assumptions. For additional
information on our repurchase liability, see the  Critical Accounting Policies
  Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  section and Note 9 (Mortgage
Banking Activities) to Financial Statements in this Report.  

Table 41: 
  Mortgage Repurchase Liability - Sensitivity Assumptions   

Mortgage   

repurchase   

(in millions)  

liability   

Balance at December 31, 2013  

$  

899   

Loss on repurchases (1)  

28.3   

%   

Increase in liability from:  

10% higher losses  

$  

80   

25% higher losses  

200   

Repurchase rate assumption (2)  

0.2   

%   

Increase in liability from:  

10% higher repurchase rates  

$  

65   

25% higher repurchase rates  

162   

(1)  

Represents total estimated average loss rate on repurchased
  loans, net of recovery from third party originators, based on historical
  experience and current economic conditions. The average loss rate includes
  the impact of repurchased loans for which no loss is expected to be realized.  

(2)  

Represents the combination of the estimated investor audit/file
  review rate, the investor demand rate on those audited loans, and the
  unsuccessful appeal rate on those demands. As such, the repurchase rate can
  be significantly impacted by changes in investor behavior if they decide to
  review/audit more loans or demand more repurchases on the loans they audit.
  These behavior changes drive a significant component of our estimated high
  end of the range of reasonably possible losses in excess of our recorded
  repurchase liability, which includes adverse assumptions in excess of the
  sensitivity ranges presented in this table.  

To the extent that economic
conditions and the housing market do not recover or future investor repurchase
demands and appeals success rates differ from past experience, we could
continue to have increased demands and increased loss severity on repurchases,
causing future additions to the repurchase liability. However, some of the
underwriting standards that were permitted by the GSEs for conforming loans in
the 2006 through 2008 vintages, which significantly contributed to recent
levels of repurchase demands, were tightened starting in mid to late 2008 and
as of December 31, 2013, we have resolved substantially all of our repurchase
exposures on the pre-2009 vintages with FNMA and FHLMC. Given the tightening of
underwriting standards in late 2008, we do not expect a similar rate of repurchase
requests from the 2009 and prospective vintages, absent deterioration in
economic conditions or changes in investor behavior.  

RISKS RELATING TO
SERVICING ACTIVITIES       In addition to
servicing loans in our portfolio, we act as servicer and/or master servicer of
residential mortgage loans included in GSE-guaranteed mortgage securitizations,
GNMA-guaranteed mortgage securitizations of FHA-insured/VA-guaranteed mortgages
and private label mortgage securitizations, as well as for unsecuritized loans
owned by institutional investors. The following discussion summarizes the
primary duties and requirements of servicing and related industry developments.  

81   

Risk

Management   Credit Risk              Management        (continued)              

General Servicing
Duties and Requirements    

  The loans we service were
originated by us or by other mortgage loan originators. As servicer, our
primary duties are typically to (1) collect payments due from borrowers, (2)
advance certain delinquent payments of principal and interest, (3) maintain and
administer any hazard, title or primary mortgage insurance policies relating to
the mortgage loans, (4) maintain any required escrow accounts for payment of
taxes and insurance and administer escrow payments, (5) foreclose on defaulted
mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the documents governing a
securitization, consider alternatives to foreclosure, such as loan
modifications or short sales, and (6) for loans sold into private label
securitizations, manage the foreclosed property through liquidation. As master
servicer, our primary duties are typically to (1) supervise, monitor and
oversee the servicing of the mortgage loans by the servicer, (2) consult with
each servicer and use reasonable efforts to cause the servicer to fulfill its
servicing obligations, (3) prepare monthly distribution statements to security
holders and, if required by the securitization documents, certain periodic
reports required to be filed with the SEC, (4) if required by the
securitization documents, calculate distributions and loss allocations on the
mortgage-backed securities, (5) prepare tax and information returns of the
securitization trust, and (6) advance amounts required by non-affiliated
servicers who fail to perform their advancing obligations.  

  Each agreement under which we act
as servicer or master servicer generally specifies a standard of responsibility
for actions we take in such capacity and provides protection against expenses
and liabilities we incur when acting in compliance with the specified standard.
For example, most private label securitization agreements under which we act as
servicer or master servicer typically provide that the servicer and the master
servicer are entitled to indemnification by the securitization trust for taking
action or refraining from taking action in good faith or errors in judgment.
However, we are not indemnified, but rather are required to indemnify the
securitization trustee, against any failure by us, as servicer or master
servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or against any of our acts or
omissions that involve wilful misfeasance, bad faith or gross negligence in the
performance of, or reckless disregard of, our duties. In addition, if we commit
a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be
subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period
following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or
a specified percentage of security holders. Whole loan sale contracts under
which we act as servicer generally include similar provisions with respect to
our actions as servicer. The standards governing servicing in GSE-guaranteed
securitizations, and the possible remedies for violations of such standards,
vary, and those standards and remedies are determined by servicing guides
maintained by the GSEs, contracts between the GSEs and individual servicers and
topical guides published by the GSEs from time to time. Such remedies could
include indemnification or repurchase of an affected mortgage loan.  

Consent Orders and Settlement
Agreements for Mortgage Servicing and Foreclosure Practices    

  In April 2011, the   FRB   and
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) issued Consent Orders that
require us to correct deficiencies in our residential mortgage loan servicing
and foreclosure practices that were identified by federal banking regulators in
their fourth quarter 2010 review. The Consent Orders also require that we
improve our servicing and foreclosure practices. We believe that we have
implemented all of the operational changes that resulted from the expanded
servicing responsibilities outlined in the Consent Orders.  

  On February 28, 2013, we entered into
amendments to the April 2011 Consent Order with both the OCC and the FRB, which
effectively ceased the Independent Foreclosure Review (IFR) program created by
such Consent Order and replaced it with an accelerated remediation process to
be administered by the OCC and the FRB.  

  In aggregate, the servicers agreed to make
cash payments into a qualified settlement fund to be administered by the OCC
and the FRB and to provide additional assistance, such as loan modifications,
to consumers. Our portion of the cash settlement was $766 million, which was
based on the proportionate share of Wells Fargo-serviced loans in the overall
IFR population. We accrued the cash portion of the settlement in 2012, along
with our estimate of other remediation-related costs, and we paid this
settlement in  
  first quarter     2013. We also committed to foreclosure
prevention actions which include first and second lien modifications and short
sales/deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure on $1.2 billion of loans. We anticipate
meeting this commitment primarily through first lien modification and short
sale activities. We are required to meet this commitment by January 7, 2015,
and we anticipate that we will be able to meet our commitment within the
required timeline. This commitment did not result in any charge as we believe
that this commitment is covered through the existing allowance for credit
losses and the nonaccretable difference relating to the purchased
credit-impaired loan portfolios.  

  On February 9, 2012, a federal/state
settlement was announced among the DOJ, HUD, the Department of the Treasury,
the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the
Executive Office of the U.S. Trustee, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
a task force of Attorneys General representing 49 states, Wells Fargo, and four
other servicers related to investigations of mortgage industry servicing and
foreclosure practices. While Oklahoma did not participate in the larger
settlement, it settled separately with the five servicers under a simplified
agreement. Under the terms of the larger settlement, which will remain in
effect for three and a half years (subject to a trailing review period) we have
agreed to the following programmatic commitments, consisting of three
components totaling approximately $5.3 billion:  

Consumer Relief Program
commitment of $3.4 billion  

Refinance Program
commitment of $900 million  

Foreclosure Assistance Program
of $1 billion  

Additionally and simultaneously, the OCC and
FRB announced the imposition of civil money penalties of $83 million and
$87 million, respectively, pursuant to the Consent Orders. While still subject
to FRB confirmation, Wells Fargo believes the civil money obligations were
satisfied through payments made under the Foreclosure Assistance Program to the
federal government and participating states for their use to address the impact
of foreclosure challenges as they determine and which may include direct
payments to consumers.  

  We     believe we have successfully executed activities required under both the
Consumer Relief (and state-level sub-commitments) and the Refinance Programs in
accordance with the terms of our commitments. In our August 14, 2013,
submission to the Monitor of the National Mortgage Settlement, we reported
sufficient credits to satisfy the requirements of both programs. Our earned
credits are subject to review and approval by the Monitor.  

82   

Asset/Liability Management    

Asset/liability
management involves evaluating, monitoring and managing interest rate risk,
market risk, liquidity and funding. Primary oversight of these risks resides
with the Finance Committee of our Board of Directors (Board), which oversees
the administration and effectiveness of financial risk management policies and
processes used to assess and manage these risks. At the management level we
utilize a Corporate Asset/Liability Management Committee (Corporate ALCO),
which consists of senior financial and business executives, to oversee these
risks and report on them periodically to the Board s Finance Committee. Each of
our principal lines of business has its own asset/liability management committee
and process linked to the Corporate ALCO process. As discussed in more detail
for trading activities below, we employ separate management level oversight
specific to the market risks related to our trading activities. Market risk, in
its broadest sense, refers to the possibility that losses will result from the
impact of adverse changes in market rates and prices on our trading and
non-trading portfolios and financial instruments.   

Interest Rate
Risk        Interest rate risk, which
potentially can have a significant earnings impact, is an integral part of
being a financial intermediary. We are subject to interest rate risk because:   

assets and
liabilities may mature or reprice at different times (for example, if assets
reprice faster than liabilities and interest rates are generally falling,
earnings will initially decline);   

assets and
liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts (for example,
when the general level of interest rates is falling, we may reduce rates paid
on checking and savings deposit accounts by an amount that is less than the
general decline in market interest rates);   

short-term
and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts (for
example, the shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields and funding
costs differently);      

the remaining
maturity of various assets or liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest
rates change (for example, if long-term mortgage interest rates decline
sharply, MBS held in the investment securities portfolio may prepay
significantly earlier than anticipated, which could reduce portfolio income);
or  

interest
rates may also have a direct or indirect effect on loan demand, collateral
values, credit losses, mortgage origination volume, the fair value of MSRs and
other financial instruments, the value of the pension liability and other items
affecting earnings.  

We assess interest rate risk by
comparing outcomes under various earnings simulations using many interest rate
scenarios that differ in the direction of interest rate changes, the degree of
change over time, the speed of change and the projected shape of the yield
curve. These simulations require assumptions regarding how changes in interest
rates and related market conditions could influence drivers of earnings and
balance sheet composition such as loan origination demand, prepayment speeds,
deposit balances and mix, as well as pricing strategies.  

  Our risk measures include both
net interest income sensitivity and interest rate sensitive noninterest income
and expense impacts. We refer to the combination of these exposures as interest
rate sensitive earnings. In general, the Company is positioned to benefit from
higher interest rates. Currently, our profile is such that net interest income
will benefit from higher interest rates as our assets reprice faster and to a
greater degree than our liabilities, and, in response to lower market rates,
our assets will reprice downward and to a greater degree than our liabilities.
Our interest rate sensitive noninterest income and expense is largely driven by
mortgage activity, and tends to move in the opposite direction of our net
interest income. So, in response to higher interest rates, mortgage activity,
primarily refinancing activity, generally declines. And in response to lower
rates, mortgage activity generally increases. Mortgage results are also
impacted by the valuation of MSRs and related hedge positions. See the  Risk
Management   Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  section in this
Report for more information.  

  The degree to which these
sensitivities offset each other is dependent upon the timing and magnitude of
changes in interest rates, and the slope of the yield curve. During a
transition to a higher or lower interest rate environment, a reduction or
increase in interest-sensitive earnings from the mortgage banking business
could occur quickly, while the benefit or detriment from balance sheet
repricing     could take
more time to develop.   For
example, our lower rate     scenarios   
  (scenario
1 and scenario 2) in the following table initially     measure a decline in
long-term interest rates versus our most likely scenario. Although the
performance in both lower rate scenarios contains initial benefit from
increased mortgage banking activity, each results in lower earnings relative to
the most likely scenario over time     given pressure on net
interest income. The higher rate scenarios (scenario 3 and scenario 4) measure
the impact of varying degrees of rising short-term and long-term interest rates
over the course of the forecast horizon relative to the most likely     scenario,
both resulting in positive earnings sensitivity.  

  As of December 31, 2013, our most
recent simulations estimate earnings at risk over the next 24 months under a range
of both lower and higher interest rates. The results of the simulations are
summarized in Table 42, indicating cumulative net income after tax earnings
sensitivity relative to the most likely earnings plan over the 24 month horizon
(a positive range indicates a beneficial earnings sensitivity measurement
relative to the most likely earnings plan).  

83   

Risk

Management   Asset/Liability Management                 (continued)              

We use the investment securities
portfolio and exchange-traded and over-the-counter (OTC) interest rate
derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposures. See the  Balance Sheet Analysis  
Investment Securities  section in this Report for more information on the use
of the available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities portfolios. The
notional or contractual amount, credit risk amount and fair value of the
derivatives used to hedge our interest rate risk exposures as of December 31,
2013,     and December
31, 2012, are presented in Note     16
(Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report. We use derivatives for
asset/liability management in three main ways:   

to convert a
major portion of our long-term fixed-rate debt, which we issue to finance the
Company, from fixed-rate payments to floating-rate payments by entering into
receive-fixed swaps;   

to convert
the cash flows from selected asset and/or liability instruments/portfolios from
fixed-rate payments to floating-rate payments or vice versa; and   

to
economically hedge our mortgage origination pipeline, funded mortgage loans and
MSRs using interest rate swaps, swaptions, futures, forwards and options.  

Mortgage
Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk         We originate, fund and service
mortgage loans, which subjects us to various risks, including credit, liquidity
and interest rate risks. Based on market conditions and other factors, we
reduce credit and liquidity risks by selling or securitizing some or all of the
long-term fixed-rate mortgage loans we originate and most of the ARMs we
originate. On the other hand, we may hold originated ARMs and fixed-rate
mortgage loans in our loan portfolio as an investment for our growing base of
core deposits. We determine whether the loans will be held for investment or
held for sale at the time of commitment. We may subsequently change our intent
to hold loans for investment and sell some or all of our ARMs or fixed-rate
mortgages as part of our corporate asset/liability management. We may also
acquire and add to our securities available for sale a portion of the
securities issued at the time we securitize MHFS.  

  As expected, with the
increase in mortgage interest rates in 2013, our mortgage banking revenue
declined as the level of mortgage loan refinance activity significantly
decreased compared with 2012. The decline in mortgage loan origination income
(primarily driven by the decline in mortgage loan refinancing volume) more than
offset the increase in net servicing income. The 2012 results reflected an
environment of very low mortgage interest rates which led to high origination
volumes and margins. Despite the increase in mortgage interest rates, the slow
recovery in the housing sector, and the continued lack of liquidity in the
nonconforming secondary markets, our mortgage banking revenue was strong in
2013, reflecting the complementary origination and servicing strengths of the
business.     The
secondary market for agency-conforming mortgages functioned well during 2013.  

  Interest rate and market risk can
be substantial in the mortgage business. Changes in interest rates may
potentially reduce total origination and servicing fees, the value of our
residential MSRs measured at fair value, the value of MHFS and the associated
income and loss reflected in mortgage banking noninterest income, the income
and expense associated with instruments (economic hedges) used to hedge changes
in the fair value of MSRs and MHFS, and the value of derivative loan
commitments (interest rate  locks ) extended to mortgage applicants.  

  Interest rates affect the amount
and timing of origination and servicing fees because consumer demand for new
mortgages and the level of refinancing activity are sensitive to changes in
mortgage interest rates. Typically, a decline in mortgage interest rates will
lead to an increase in mortgage originations and fees and may also lead to an
increase in servicing fee income, depending on the level of new loans added to
the servicing portfolio and prepayments. Given the time it takes for consumer
behavior to fully react to interest rate changes, as well as the time required
for processing a new application, providing the commitment, and securitizing
and selling the loan, interest rate changes will affect origination and
servicing fees with a lag. The amount and timing of the impact on origination
and servicing fees will depend on the magnitude, speed and duration of the
change in interest rates.  

  We measure originations of MHFS
at fair value where an active secondary market and readily available market
prices exist to reliably support fair value pricing models used for these
loans. Loan origination fees on these loans are recorded when earned, and
related direct loan origination costs are recognized when incurred. We also
measure at fair value certain of our other interests held related to
residential loan sales and securitizations. We believe fair value measurement
for MHFS and other interests held, which we hedge with free-standing
derivatives (economic hedges) along with our MSRs measured at fair value,
reduces certain timing differences and better matches changes in the value of
these assets with changes in the value of derivatives used as economic hedges
for these assets. During 2013 and 2012, in response to continued secondary
market illiquidity, we continued to originate certain prime non-agency loans to
be held for investment for the foreseeable future rather than to be held for
sale. In addition, in 2013 and 2012, we originated certain prime
agency-eligible loans to be held for investment as part of our asset/liability
management strategy.  

  We initially measure   all of our MSRs at
fair value and carry substantially all of them at fair value depending on our
strategy for managing interest rate risk  .
Under this method, the MSRs are recorded at fair value at the time we sell or
securitize the related mortgage loans. The carrying value of MSRs carried at
fair value reflects changes in fair value at the end of each quarter and
changes are included in net servicing income, a component of mortgage banking
noninterest income. If the fair value of the MSRs increases, income is
recognized; if the fair value of the MSRs decreases, a loss is recognized. We
use a dynamic and sophisticated model to estimate the fair value of our MSRs
and periodically benchmark our estimates to independent appraisals. The
valuation of MSRs can be highly subjective and involve complex judgments by
management about matters that are inherently unpredictable. See  Critical Accounting
Policies   Valuation of Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights  section in this
Report for      

84   

additional information. Changes in interest
rates influence a variety of significant assumptions included in the periodic
valuation of MSRs, including prepayment speeds, expected returns and potential
risks on the servicing asset portfolio, the value of escrow balances and other
servicing valuation elements.  

  A decline in interest rates
generally increases the propensity for refinancing, reduces the expected
duration of the servicing portfolio and therefore reduces the estimated fair
value of MSRs. This reduction in fair value causes a charge to income   for MSRs carried at
fair value  , net of
any gains on free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge MSRs. We
may choose not to fully hedge all the potential decline in the value of our
MSRs resulting from a decline in interest rates because the potential increase
in origination/servicing fees in that scenario provides a partial  natural
business hedge.  An increase in interest rates generally reduces the propensity
for refinancing, extends the expected duration of the servicing portfolio and
therefore increases the estimated fair value of the MSRs. However, an increase
in interest rates can also reduce mortgage loan demand and therefore reduce
origination income.  

  The price risk associated with
our MSRs is economically hedged with a combination of highly liquid interest
rate forward instruments including mortgage forward contracts, interest rate
swaps and interest rate options. All of the instruments included in the hedge
are marked to market daily. Because the hedging instruments are traded in
highly liquid markets, their prices are readily observable and are fully
reflected in each quarter s mark to market. Quarterly MSR hedging results
include a combination of directional gain or loss due to market changes as well
as any carry income generated. If the economic hedge is effective, its overall
directional hedge gain or loss will offset the change in the valuation of the
underlying MSR asset. Gains or losses associated with these economic hedges are
included in mortgage banking noninterest income. Consistent with our
longstanding approach to hedging interest rate risk in the mortgage business,
the size of the hedge and the particular combination of forward hedging
instruments at any point in time is designed to reduce the volatility of the
mortgage business s earnings over various time frames within a range of
mortgage interest rates. Because market factors, the composition of the
mortgage servicing portfolio and the relationship between the origination and
servicing sides of our mortgage business change continually, the types of
instruments used in our hedging are reviewed daily and rebalanced based on our
evaluation of current market factors and the interest rate risk inherent in our
MSRs portfolio. Throughout 2013, our economic hedging strategy generally used
forward mortgage purchase contracts that were effective at offsetting the
impact of interest rates on the value of the MSR asset.  

  Mortgage forward contracts are
designed to pass the full economics of the underlying reference mortgage
securities to the holder of the contract, including both the directional gain
and loss from the forward delivery of the reference securities and the
corresponding carry income. Carry income represents the contract s price
accretion from the forward delivery price to the spot price including both the
yield earned on the reference securities and the market implied cost of
financing during the period. The actual amount of carry income earned on the
hedge each quarter will depend on the amount of the underlying asset that is
hedged and the particular instruments included in the hedge. The level of carry
income is driven by the slope of the yield curve and other market driven supply
and demand factors affecting the specific reference securities. A steep yield
curve generally produces higher carry income while a flat or inverted yield
curve can result in lower or potentially negative carry income. The level of
carry income is also affected by the type of instrument used. In general,
mortgage forward contracts tend to produce higher carry income than interest
rate swap contracts. Carry income is recognized over the life of the mortgage
forward as a component of the contract s mark to market gain or loss.  

  Hedging the various sources of
interest rate risk in mortgage banking is a complex process that requires
sophisticated modeling and constant monitoring. While we attempt to balance
these various aspects of the mortgage business, there are several potential
risks to earnings:  

Valuation
changes for MSRs associated with interest rate changes are recorded in earnings
immediately within the accounting period in which those interest rate changes
occur, whereas the impact of those same changes in interest rates on
origination and servicing fees occur with a lag and over time. Thus, the
mortgage business could be protected from adverse changes in interest rates
over a period of time on a cumulative basis but still display large variations
in income from one accounting period to the next.  

The degree to
which the  natural business hedge  offsets valuation changes for MSRs is
imperfect, varies at different points in the interest rate cycle, and depends
not just on the direction of interest rates but on the pattern of quarterly
interest rate changes.  

Origination
volumes, the valuation of MSRs and hedging results and associated costs are
also affected by many factors. Such factors include the mix of new business
between ARMs and fixed-rate mortgages, the relationship between short-term and
long-term interest rates, the degree of volatility in interest rates, the
relationship between mortgage interest rates and other interest rate markets,
and other interest rate factors.   Additional factors that can impact the valuation of
the MSRs include changes in servicing and foreclosure costs due to changes in
investor or regulatory guidelines,     as well as individual
state foreclosure legislation, and changes in discount rates due to market
participants requiring a higher return due to updated market expectations on
costs and risks associated with investing in MSRs.   Many of these factors are hard
to predict and we may not be able to directly or perfectly hedge their effect.   

While our
hedging activities are designed to balance our mortgage banking interest rate
risks, the financial instruments we use may not perfectly correlate with the
values and income being hedged. For example, the change in the value of ARM
production held for sale from changes in mortgage interest rates may or may not
be fully offset by Treasury and LIBOR index-based financial instruments used as
economic hedges for such ARMs. Additionally, hedge-carry income we earn on our
economic hedges for the MSRs may not continue if the spread between short-term
and long-term rates decreases, we shift composition of the hedge to more
interest rate swaps, or there are other changes in the market for mortgage
forwards that affect the implied carry.  

The total carrying value of our
residential and commercial MSRs was $16.8 billion and $12.7 billion  
  at December 31, 2013 and
2012, respectively.     The
weighted-average note rate on our portfolio of loans serviced for others was 4.52%
and 4.77%     at
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The carrying value of our total MSRs
represented     0.88% and
0.67% of mortgage loans serviced for others at December 31, 2013 and 2012,
respectively.  

85   

Risk

Management   Asset/Liability Management                 (continued)              

As
part of our mortgage banking activities, we enter into commitments to fund
residential mortgage loans at specified times in the future. A mortgage loan
commitment is an interest rate lock that binds us to lend funds to a potential
borrower at a specified interest rate and within a specified period of time,
generally up to 60 days after inception of the rate lock. These loan
commitments are derivative loan commitments if the loans that will result from
the exercise of the commitments will be held for sale. These derivative loan
commitments are recognized at fair value on the balance sheet with changes in
their fair values recorded as part of mortgage banking noninterest income. The
fair value of these commitments include, at inception and during the life of
the loan commitment, the expected net future cash flows related to the
associated servicing of the loan as part of the fair value measurement of
derivative loan commitments. Changes subsequent to inception are based on
changes in fair value of the underlying loan resulting from the exercise of the
commitment and changes in the probability that the loan will not fund within
the terms of the commitment, referred to as a fall-out factor. The value of the
underlying loan commitment is affected primarily by changes in interest rates
and the passage of time.  

  Outstanding derivative loan
commitments expose us to the risk that the price of the mortgage loans
underlying the commitments might decline due to increases in mortgage interest
rates from inception of the rate lock to the funding of the loan. To minimize
this risk, we employ mortgage forwards and options, Eurodollar futures and
options, and Treasury futures, forwards and options contracts as economic
hedges against the potential decreases in the values of the loans. We expect
that these derivative financial instruments will experience changes in fair
value that will either fully or partially offset the changes in fair value of
the derivative loan commitments. However, changes in investor demand, such as
concerns about credit risk, can also cause changes in the spread relationships
between underlying loan value and the derivative financial instruments that
cannot be hedged.  

Market
Risk   Trading Activities         We
engage in trading activities primarily to accommodate the investment and risk
management activities of our customers, execute economic hedging to manage
certain of our balance sheet risks and for a very limited amount of proprietary
trading for our own account. These activities primarily occur within our trading
businesses and include entering into transactions with our customers that are
recorded as trading assets and liabilities on our balance sheet.     The primary risk
metric used to monitor our trading assets and liabilities is Value-at-Risk
(VaR). Value-at-Risk is covered in more detail in the Value-At-Risk Overview
section     in this Report. Assets and liabilities held outside
of our trading portfolio are primarily monitored through the use of earnings
simulations as described above.      

Valuation Process       All of our trading assets and
liabilities, including securities, foreign exchange transactions, commodity
transactions and derivatives are carried at fair value. Income earned related
to these trading activities include net interest income and changes in fair
value related to trading assets and liabilities. Net interest income earned on
trading assets and liabilities is reflected in the interest income and interest
expense components of our income statement. Changes in fair value of trading
assets and liabilities are reflected in net gains (losses) on trading
activities, a component of noninterest income in our income statement.     For a discussion of our
significant accounting policies and how we determine fair value, see Note 1
(Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this
Report. For descriptions of the valuation methodologies we use for assets and
liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis and for estimating fair
value for financial instruments at fair value, see Note 16 (Derivatives) and
Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this
Report.      

  From a market risk perspective,
our net income is exposed to changes in the fair value of trading assets and
liabilities due to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange
rates, equity and commodity prices. Our Market Risk Committee, which is a management
committee reporting to the Finance Committee of the Board, provides governance
and oversight over market risk-taking activities across the Company.                

86   

Table
43     presents total
revenue from trading activities.  

Customer accommodation     Customer accommodation activities
are conducted to help customers manage their investment needs and risk
management and hedging activities. We engage in market-making     activities or act as an
intermediary to purchase or sell financial instruments in anticipation of or in
response to customer needs. This category also includes positions we use to
manage our exposure to such transactions.  

  For the majority of our customer
accommodation trading, we serve as intermediary between buyer and seller. For
example, we may purchase or sell a derivative to a customer who wants to manage
interest rate risk exposure. We typically enter into offsetting derivative or security
positions with a separate counterparty or exchange to manage our exposure to
the derivative with our customer. We earn income on this activity based on the
transaction price difference between the customer and offsetting derivative or
security positions, which is reflected in the fair value changes of the
positions recorded in net gains (losses) on trading activities.  

  Customer accommodation
trading also includes net gains related to market-making activities in which we
take positions to facilitate customer order flow. For example, we may own
securities recorded as trading assets (long positions) or sold securities we have
not yet purchased, recorded as trading liabilities (short positions), typically
on a short-term basis, to facilitate anticipated buying and selling demand from
our customers. As market-maker in these securities, we earn income due (1) to
the difference between the price paid or received for the purchase and sale of
the security (bid-ask spread) and (2) the net interest income and change in
fair value of the long or short positions during the short-term period held on
our balance sheet. Additionally, we may enter into separate derivative or security
positions to manage our exposure related to our long or short security
positions. Collectively, income earned on this type of market-making activity
is reflected in the fair value changes of these positions recorded in net gain
(losses) on trading activities.  

Economic hedges and other     Economic hedges in
trading are not designated in a hedge accounting relationship and exclude
economic hedging related to our asset/liability risk management and
substantially all mortgage banking risk management activities. Economic hedging
activities include the use of trading securities to economically hedge risk
exposures related to non-trading activities or derivatives to hedge risk
exposures related to trading assets or trading liabilities. Economic hedges are
unrelated to our customer accommodation activities. Other activities include
financial assets held for investment purposes that we elected to carry at fair
value with changes in fair value recorded to earnings in order to mitigate
accounting measurement mismatches or avoid embedded derivative accounting complexities.      

Proprietary trading     Proprietary      trading
  consists of security
or derivative positions executed for our own account based upon market
expectations or to benefit from price differences between financial instruments
and markets. Proprietary trading activity has been substantially restricted by
the Dodd-Frank Act provisions known as the  Volcker Rule.  On December 10,
2013, federal banking regulators, the SEC and CFTC jointly released a final
rule to implement the Volcker Rule s restrictions. Banking entities are not
required to come into compliance with the Volcker Rule s restrictions until
July 21, 2015, however, we will be required to report certain trading metrics
beginning June     30,     2014. During the conformance
period, banking entities are expected to engage in  good faith  planning
efforts, appropriate for their activities and investments, to enable them to
conform all of their activities and investments to the Volcker Rule s
restrictions by no later than July 21, 2015. Accordingly, we reduced and are
exiting certain business activities in anticipation of the final Volcker Rule  . As discussed within
this section and the noninterest income section of our financial results,
proprietary trading activity is insignificant to our business and financial
results. For more details on the Volcker Rule, see the  Regulatory Reform 
section in this Report.  

Daily Trading Revenue     Table 44 and Table 45
provide information on daily trading-related revenues for the Company s trading
portfolio. This trading-related revenue is defined as the change in value of
the trading assets and trading liabilities, trading-related net interest income
and trading-related intra-day gains and losses. Net trading-related revenue
does not include activity related to long-term positions held for economic
hedging purposes, period-end adjustments and other activity not representative
of daily price changes driven by market factors.  

87   

Risk

Management   Asset/Liability Management                 (continued)              

Table
44:  Distribution of Daily Trading-Related Revenues (for the year         ended December 31,         2013)    

Table
45:  Daily Trading-Related Revenues   

Market Risk Governance    
  The Finance
Committee of our Board reviews and approves the acceptable level of market risk
for the Company. The Corporate Risk     Group s Market Risk
Committee is responsible for     governance and oversight over
market risk-taking activities across the Company as well as the establishment
of risk tolerances and line of business VaR limits.   The Corporate Market Risk Group,
which is part of the Corporate Risk Group, administers and monitors compliance
with the requirements established by the Market Risk Committee. The Corporate
Market Risk Group has oversight responsibilities in identifying, measuring and
monitoring the Company s market risk. The group is responsible for quantitative
market risk model development, establishing independent risk limits, calculation and analysis of
market risk capital, and reporting aggregated and line of business market risk
information.   Limits
are regularly reviewed to ensure they remain relevant and within the market
risk appetite for the Company. There is an automated limits monitoring system
that enables a daily comprehensive review of multiple limits mandated across
businesses by the Corporate Market Risk Group. Limits are set with inner
boundaries that will be periodically breached to promote an ongoing dialogue of
risk exposure within the Company.     Each line of business
that exposes the Company to market risk has direct responsibility for managing
market risk in accordance with defined risk tolerances and approved market risk
mandates and hedging strategies. As described below, we measure and monitor
market risk for both management and regulatory capital purposes.  

Market Risk Measurement     Market Risk is the risk of adverse changes in the fair
value of the trading portfolios and financial instruments held by the Company
due to changes in market risk factors such as interest rates, credit spreads,
foreign exchange rates, equity, and commodity prices. Market risk is intrinsic
to the Company s sales and trading, market making, investing, and risk management
activities.  

  The Company uses VaR metrics complemented
with sensitivity analysis and stress testing in measuring and monitoring market
risk. These market risk measures are monitored at both the business unit level
and at aggregated levels on a daily basis. Our corporate market risk management
function aggregates all Company exposures to      

88   

monitor
whether risk measures are within our established risk appetite. Changes to the
Company s market risk profile are analyzed and reported on a daily basis. The
Company monitors various market risk exposure measures from a variety of
perspectives, which include line of business, product, risk type and legal
entity.  

Value-at-Risk Overview         VaR is a statistical risk measure used to estimate the
potential loss from adverse moves in the financial markets. We utilize VaR
models to measure market risk on an aggregate basis as well as on a
disaggregated basis for each individual line of business. The VaR measures
assume that historical changes in market values (historical simulation
analysis) are representative of the potential future outcomes and measure the
expected loss over a given time interval (for example, 1 day or 10 days) within
a given confidence level. The historical simulation analysis approach uses
historical changes of the risk factors from each trading day in the previous 12
months. The risk drivers of each trading position with respect to interest
rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, and equity and commodity prices
are updated on a daily basis. We measure and report VaR for a 1-day holding
period and a 10-day holding period at a 99% confidence level. This means that
we would expect to incur single day losses greater than predicted by VaR
estimates for the measured positions one time in every 100 trading days. We
treat data from all historical periods as equally relevant and consider
utilizing data for the previous 12 months as appropriate for determining VaR.
We believe using a 12 month look back period helps ensure the Company s VaR is
responsive to current market conditions.  

  VaR measurement between different
financial institutions is not readily comparable due to modeling and assumption
differences from company to company. VaR measures are more useful when
interpreted as an indication of trends rather than an absolute measure to be
compared across institutions.  

  The VaR model is subject to limitations
which are well established in the industry. Some of the primary limitations
include availability of historical data and determining the appropriate
mathematical model assumptions. These limitations are monitored by a management
committee of the Market Risk Committee and Corporate Model Risk Committee
(CMoR). The CMoR consists of senior executive management and reports on
material model risk issues to the Risk Committee of the Board.  

Sensitivity Analysis Overview       Sensitivity analysis is the measure of
exposure to a single risk factor, such as a one basis point increase in rates
or a 1%  
  increase in equity prices. We
conduct and monitor sensitivity on interest rates, credit spreads, volatility,
equity, commodity, and foreign exchange exposure. Since VaR is based upon
previous moves in market risk factors over recent historical periods, it may
not provide accurate predictions of future market moves. Sensitivity analysis
complements VaR as it provides an indication of risk relative to each factor
irrespective of historical market moves.   

Stress Testing Overview         While VaR captures the risk of loss due to
adverse changes in markets using recent historical market data, stress testing
captures the Company s exposure to extreme, but low probability market
movements. Stress scenarios estimate the risk of losses based on management s
assumptions of abnormal but severe market movements such as severe credit
spread widening or a large decline in equity prices. These scenarios also
assume that the market moves happen instantaneously and no repositioning or
hedging activity takes place to mitigate losses as events unfold (although
experience demonstrates otherwise).  

  An inventory of scenarios is maintained representing
both historical and hypothetical stress events that affect a broad range of
market risk factors with varying degrees of correlation and differing time
horizons. Historical scenarios utilize an event-driven approach: the stress
scenarios are based on plausible but rare events, and the analysis addresses
how these events might affect the risk factors relevant to a portfolio.     Hypothetical scenarios assess the impact of
large movements in financial variables on portfolio values. Typical examples include
a 100 basis point increase across the yield curve or a 10% decline in stock
market indexes. However, this analysis lacks historical and economic content,
which can limit its usefulness.  

  The Company s stress testing framework is also
used in calculating results in support of the Federal Reserve Board s
Comprehensive Capital Analysis   Review (CCAR) and internal risk measures.
Stress scenarios are regularly reviewed and updated to address potential market
events or concerns. For more detail on the CCAR process,     see the  Capital Management  section in this
Report.  

Market Risk Monitoring        Trading VaR is the VaR measure used to provide insight
into the market risk exhibited by the Company s trading positions. The Company
calculates Trading VaR for risk management purposes to establish line of
business risk limits. Trading VaR is calculated based on all trading positions
classified as trading assets or trading liabilities on our balance sheet. In
addition, the Company monitors and manages a variety of sensitivity exposures
and stress testing estimates.  

  Table 46 shows the results of the Company s
Trading VaR by risk category. As presented in the table, average Trading VaR
was $21 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2013, compared with $18
million for the quarter ended September 30, 2013. The increase was primarily
driven by changes in portfolio composition.  

89   

Risk

Management   Asset/Liability Management                 (continued)              

Model
Risk Management       Internal market risk models are governed by our
Corporate Model Risk policies and procedures, which include model validation.
The purpose of model validation includes ensuring the model is appropriate for its
intended use and that appropriate controls exist to help mitigate the risk of
invalid results. Model validation assesses the adequacy and appropriateness of
the model, including reviewing its key components such as inputs, processing
components, logic or theory, output results and supporting model documentation.
Validation also includes ensuring significant unobservable model inputs are
appropriate given observable market transactions or other market data within
the same or similar asset classes. This ensures modeled approaches are
appropriate given similar product valuation techniques and are in line with
their intended purpose. The Corporate Model Risk group provides oversight of
model validation and assessment processes.  

  All internal valuation models are subject to
ongoing review by business-unit-level management, and all models are subject to
additional oversight by a corporate-level risk management department. Corporate
oversight responsibilities include evaluating the adequacy of business unit
risk management programs, maintaining company-wide model validation policies
and standards and reporting the results of these activities to management and
CMoR.      

Regulatory Market Risk Capital       Effective January 1, 2013, U.S. banking
regulators adopted  Risk-Based Capital Guidelines: Market Risk  as the
regulations covering the calculation of market risk regulatory capital. The
market risk capital rule, commonly known as Basel 2.5, requires banking
organizations with significant trading activities to adjust their capital
requirements to better account for the market risks of those activities. The
rule substantially modified the determination of market risk-weighted assets,
and implements a more risk sensitive methodology. The Basel 2.5 regulatory
market risk capital rule introduced new measures of market risk including
stressed VaR, an incremental risk charge, and updates to standard specific risk
charges. The market risk capital rule was reflected in the Company s
calculation of risk-weighted assets upon initial adoption in first quarter
2013.   

  Table 47 summarizes the market risk-based
capital requirements charge and market RWA as of December 31, 2013, in accordance
with the Basel 2.5 market risk capital rule.   

90   

Composition of Material Portfolio of Covered Positions 
   The Basel 2.5 market risk capital rule
substantially modified the determination of market RWA, and implemented a more
risk sensitive methodology for the risks inherent in certain  covered  trading
positions. The positions that are  covered  by the market risk capital rule are
generally a subset of our trading assets and trading liabilities, specifically
those held by the Company for the purpose of short-term resale or with the
intent of benefiting from actual or expected short-term price movements, or to
lock in arbitrage profits.  

  The material portfolio of the Company s
 covered  positions is predominantly concentrated in the trading assets and
trading liabilities managed within Wholesale Banking, which is the predominant
contributor to the Company s overall VaR. Wholesale Banking engages in the fixed
income, traded credit, foreign exchange, equities, and commodities markets
businesses.  

Regulatory Market Risk Capital Components       The Company s  covered  positions are
subject to the market risk capital requirements, which are based on internally
developed models or standardized specific risk charges. The market risk
regulatory capital models are subject to internal model risk management and
validation. The models are continuously monitored and enhanced in response to
changes in market conditions, improvements in system capabilities, and changes
in the Company s market risk exposure. The Company is required to obtain and
has received prior written approval from its regulators before using its internally
developed models to calculate the market risk capital charge.  

  Basel 2.5 prescribes various VaR measures
(e.g., Total VaR Measure) in the determination of regulatory capital and
risk-weighted assets. The Company uses the same VaR models for both market risk
management purposes as well as regulatory capital calculations.  

Regulatory VaR       The      Regulatory VaR measures include:  

Total      VaR Measure       is composed of General VaR and Specific Risk VaR and
uses the previous 12 months of historical market data to comply with regulatory
requirements.  

  o        General VaR      

         Measures the risk of broad market movements such as
changes in the level of interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign
exchange rates, and commodity prices.    

         Uses historical simulation analysis     based on 99% confidence level and a 10-day time
horizon.  

  o        Specific Risk     VaR   

         Measures the risk of loss that could result from
factors other than broad market movement or name specific market risk.      

         Uses Monte Carlo simulation analysis based on a 99%
confidence level and a 10-day time horizon.      

Total Stressed VaR     Measure   uses a historical period of
significant financial stress over a continuous 12 month period using
historically available market data and is composed of General Stressed VaR and
Specific Risk Stressed VaR. Stressed VaR uses the same methodology and models
as the Total VaR measure.  

Incremental Risk Charge     An Incremental Risk model, according to the market risk
capital rule, must capture losses due to both issuer default and migration risk
at the 99.9% confidence level over the one-year capital horizon under the
assumption of constant level of risk or a constant position assumption. The
model covers all credit-sensitive non-securitized products.  

  The Company calculates Incremental Risk by
generating a portfolio loss distribution utilizing Monte Carlo simulation,
which assumes numerous scenarios, where an assumption is made that the
portfolio s composition remains constant for a one-year time horizon. That is,
the model will utilize a constant positions assumption. Individual issuer
credit grade migration and issuer default risk is modeled through generation of
the issuer s credit rating transition based upon statistical modeling.
Correlation between credit grade migration and default is captured by a
multifactor proprietary model which takes into account industry classifications
as well as regional effects. Additionally, the impact of market and issuer
specific concentrations is reflected in the modeling framework by assignment of
a higher charge for portfolios that have increasing concentrations in
particular issuers or sectors. Lastly, the model captures product basis risk;
that is, it reflects the material disparity between a position and its hedge.  

  Table 48 shows the General VaR     measure categorized by major risk categories.
Table 49 shows the results of the Company s modeled components for regulatory
capital calculations. As presented in Table 48, average 10-day General VaR was
$80 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2013, compared with $64 million
for the quarter ended September 30, 2013. The increase was primarily driven by     changes in portfolio composition.  

91   

Risk

Management   Asset/Liability Management                 (continued)              

92   

Securitization
Positions       Basel 2.5 imposes a separate
market risk capital charge for positions classified as a securitization or
re-securitization. The primary criteria for classification as a securitization
is whether there is a transfer of risk and whether the credit risk associated with
the underlying exposures has been separated into at least two tranches
reflecting different levels of seniority. Covered trading securitizations
positions under Basel 2.5 include ABS, commercial mortgage-backed securities
(CMBS), residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), and collateralized loan
and other debt obligations (CLO/CDO) positions. The securitization capital
requirements are the greater of the capital requirements of the net long or
short exposure, and are capped at the maximum loss that could be incurred on
any given transaction. Table 50 shows the aggregate net fair market value of
securities and derivative securitization positions by exposure type that meet
the regulatory definition of a covered trading securitization position at December
31, 2013.  

Securitization Due Diligence and Risk Monitoring       The market risk capital rule requires that for every
covered trading securitization and re-securitization position, the Company
conducts due diligence on the risk of each position within three days of the
execution of the purchase of that position. The Company s due diligence provides
an understanding of the features that would materially affect the performance
of a securitization or re-securitization. The due diligence procedures are
again performed on a quarterly basis for each securitization and
re-securitization position. The Company attempts to manage     the risks associated with securitization and
re-securitization positions through the use of offsetting positions and
portfolio diversification. The Company has implemented an automated solution intended
to track the due diligence associated with every transaction and position.  

Comprehensive Risk Charge / Correlation Trading         The market risk capital rule requires capital for
correlation trading positions. The net market value of correlation trading
positions that meet the definition of a covered position at     December 31, 2013 was     a
net loss of less than $1 million, all of which were long positions. Correlation
trading is a discontinued business in which the Company is no longer active,
with current positions hedged and maturing over time. Given the immaterial
aspect of this discontinued activity, the Company has elected not to develop an
internal model based approach but will utilize standard specific risk charges
for these positions.  

Other Specific Risk         For positions that are not evaluated by the approved
internal specific risk models, a regulatory prescribed standard specific risk
charge is applied. The standard specific risk add-on for sovereign entities,
public sector entities and depository institutions is based on the Organization
for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) country risk classifications
(CRC) and the remaining contractual maturity of the position. These risk
add-ons for debt positions ranges from 0.25% to 12%. The add-on for corporate
debt is based on credit spreads and the remaining contractual maturity of the
position. All other types of debt positions are subject to an 8% add-on. The
standard specific risk add-on for equity positions is generally 8%.  

93   

Risk

Management   Asset/Liability Management                 (continued)              

VaR Backtesting       The      Basel 2.5 market risk capital rule requires conducting backtesting     as one     form of validation of the VaR model. Backtesting is a
comparison of the daily VaR estimate with the actual clean profit and loss (clean
P L) as defined by the market risk capital rule.     Clean P L is the change     in the value of the Company s covered trading positions
that would have occurred had previous end-of-day covered trading positions
remained unchanged (therefore, excluding fees, commissions, net interest
income, and intraday trading gains and losses). The backtesting analysis
compares the daily Total VaR Measure for each of the trading days in the
preceding 12 months with the net clean P L.     Clean P L     does not include credit adjustments and other activity not
representative of daily price changes driven by market risk factors.     The clean P L measure of revenue is used
to evaluate the performance of the Total VaR Measure and is     not comparable to our actual daily trading
net revenues, as reported elsewhere in this Report.  

  Any observed clean P L loss in excess of
the Total VaR Measure is considered an exception. The actual number of
exceptions (that is, the number of business days for which the clean P L
losses exceed the corresponding 1-day, 99%     Total VaR Measure) over the preceding 12 months is used
to determine the VaR multiplier for the capital calculation. The number of
actual backtesting exceptions is dependent on current market performance
relative to historic market volatility. This capital multiplier increases from
a minimum of three to a maximum of four, depending on the number of exceptions.  

  There were no backtesting exceptions which
occurred in  
  fourth quarter 2013.     There were exceptions in second quarter 2013
that were driven by increased volatility in the fixed income markets from
uncertainty about the Federal Reserve s intentions regarding their quantitative
easing efforts. These exceptions did not result in an increase in the capital
multiplier.   

  Table 51 shows daily Total VaR Measure (1-day,
99%) for the year     ended December
31, 2013.  
  The Wells Fargo average Total VaR
Measure for fourth quarter 2013 was $21 million with a low of $18 million and a
high of $25 million.   

Table 51:  Daily Total VaR
Measure   

94   

Market
Risk   Equity INVESTMENTS       We are directly and indirectly
affected by changes in the equity markets. We make and manage direct equity
investments in start-up businesses, emerging growth companies, management
buy-outs, acquisitions and corporate recapitalizations. We also invest in
non-affiliated funds that make similar private equity investments. These
private equity investments are made within capital allocations approved by
management and the Board. The Board s policy is to review business
developments, key risks and historical returns for the private equity
investment portfolio at least annually. Management reviews the valuations of
these investments at least quarterly and assesses them for possible OTTI. For
nonmarketable investments, the analysis is based on facts and circumstances of
each individual investment and the expectations for that investment s cash
flows and capital needs, the viability of its business model and our exit
strategy. Nonmarketable investments include private equity investments
accounted for under the cost method and equity method. Private equity
investments are subject to OTTI.  

  As part of our business to
support our customers, we trade public equities, listed/OTC equity derivatives
and convertible bonds. We have parameters that govern these activities. We
also have marketable equity securities in the securities available-for-sale
portfolio, including securities relating to our venture capital activities. We
manage these investments within capital risk limits approved by management and
the Board and monitored by Corporate ALCO. Gains and losses on these securities
are recognized in net income when realized and periodically include OTTI
charges.  

  Changes
in equity market prices may also indirectly affect our net income by (1) the
value of third party assets under management and, hence, fee income, (2)
borrowers whose ability to repay principal and/or interest may be affected by
the stock market, or (3) brokerage activity, related commission income and other
business activities. Each business line monitors and manages these indirect
risks.  

Table 52 provides
information regarding our marketable and nonmarketable equity investments.  

Liquidity and
Funding         The
objective of effective liquidity management is to ensure that we can meet
customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals and other cash
commitments efficiently   under
both normal operating conditions and under periods of Wells Fargo-specific
and/or market stress  .
To achieve this objective, the Corporate ALCO establishes and monitors
liquidity guidelines that require sufficient asset-based liquidity to cover
potential funding requirements and to avoid over-dependence on volatile, less
reliable funding markets. We set these guidelines for both the consolidated company
and for the Parent to ensure that the Parent is a source of strength for its
regulated, deposit-taking banking subsidiaries.  

  We maintain liquidity in the form
of cash, cash equivalents and unencumbered high-quality, liquid securities.
These assets make up our primary sources of liquidity. Our cash is primarily on
deposit with the Federal Reserve. Securities included as part of our primary
sources of liquidity are comprised of U.S. Treasury and federal agency debt,
and mortgage-backed securities issued by federal agencies within the available-for-sale  
  securities portfolio. We
believe these securities provide quick sources of liquidity through repurchase
agreements or sales, regardless of market conditions.   High-quality, liquid
held-to-maturity securities are not intended for sale but may be utilized in
repurchase agreements to obtain financing. Some of the legal entities within
our consolidated group of companies are subject to various regulatory, tax,
legal and other restrictions that can limit the transferability of their
funds. Accordingly, we believe we maintain      

95   

Risk

Management   Asset/Liability Management                 (continued)              

adequate
liquidity at these entities in consideration of such funds transfer
restrictions.  

  Table 53 provides the primary sources
of     liquidity as of
December 31, 2013.      

Other than our primary sources of liquidity shown in
Table 53, liquidity is also available
through the sale or financing of other securities including trading and/or  
  available-for-sale securities,
as well as through the sale, securitization or financing of loans, to the
extent such securities and loans are not encumbered. In addition, other held-to-maturity
securities, to the extent not encumbered, may be used in repurchase agreements to
obtain financing.  

  Core customer deposits have historically provided a
sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds. At December 31, 2013,
core deposits were 119% of total loans compared with 118% a year ago.
Additional funding is provided by long-term debt, other foreign deposits, and
short-term borrowings. Long-term debt averaged $134.9 billion in 2013 and
$127.5 billion in 2012. Short-term borrowings averaged $54.7 billion in
2013 and $51.2     billion
in 2012.  

  We access domestic and
international capital markets for long-term funding (generally greater than one
year) through issuances of registered debt securities, private placements and
asset-backed secured funding. Investors in the long-term capital markets, as
well as other market participants, generally will consider, among other
factors, a company s debt rating in making investment decisions. Rating agencies base
their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy,
liquidity, asset quality, business mix, the level and quality of earnings, and
rating agency assumptions regarding the probability and extent of federal
financial assistance or support for certain large financial institutions.
Adverse changes in these factors could result in a reduction of our credit
rating; however, our debt securities do not contain credit rating covenants.  

  Generally, rating agencies review
a firm s ratings at least annually. There were no changes to our credit ratings
in 2013, and both the Parent and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. remain among the
top-rated financial firms in the U.S.     On October 8, 2013,
Fitch Ratings affirmed all the ratings of the Parent and its rated
subsidiaries; on October 25, 2013, Standard   Poor s Ratings Services
(S P) affirmed all the ratings of     the Parent and its
rated subsidiaries; and on November 14, 2013, Moody s Investors Service
(Moody s) confirmed all the ratings of the Parent and its rated subsidiaries. This
ratings confirmation by Moody s followed completion of their review regarding
whether to continue incorporating the possibility of federal support in ratings
applicable to certain bank holding companies in light of recent regulatory
developments related to the Title II Orderly Liquidation Authority of the
Dodd-Frank Act. Moody s decided to eliminate any assumption of federal support for
the impacted holding companies, including the Parent. However, Moody s also
concluded that the same regulatory developments were likely to reduce the
severity of losses for bank holding company creditors in the event of default,
reflecting the potential benefits of a more orderly resolution of bank holding
companies and their related banks. The net result of these offsetting
conclusions was the confirmation of our ratings. S P is likewise reviewing
their support assumptions for certain bank holding companies in light of the
same regulatory developments. That review is ongoing and S P has not
specified a timeframe for completion of their review.  

  See the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability
Management  and  Risk Factors  sections in this Report for additional
information regarding our credit ratings as of December 31, 2013, and
the potential impact a credit rating downgrade would have on our liquidity and
operations, as well as Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this
Report for information regarding additional collateral and funding obligations
required for certain derivative instruments in the event our credit ratings
were to fall below investment grade.  

  The credit ratings of the Parent and Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. as of December 31, 2013, are presented in Table 54.      

Table 54: 
  Credit Ratings   

Wells
  Fargo   Company   

Wells
  Fargo Bank, N.A.   

Short-term   

Long-term   

Short-term   

Senior
  debt   

borrowings   

deposits   

borrowings   

Moody's  

A2   

P-1   

Aa3   

P-1   

S P  

A+   

A-1   

AA-   

A-1+   

Fitch Ratings  

AA-   

F1+   

AA   

F1+   

DBRS  

AA   

R-1*   

AA**   

R-1**   

* middle    **high  

96   

On January 6, 2013, the Basel Committee
on Bank Supervision     (BCBS) endorsed a revised Basel
III liquidity framework for banks.     In October     2013,
a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPR) regarding the U.S. implementation of the
Basel III liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) was issued by the FRB, OCC and FDIC.
The NPR s
public comment period closed on January 31, 2014,     and   the agencies will review and take
into consideration the comments filed on the proposal before adopting a final
rule  . The
FRB recently finalized rules imposing enhanced liquidity management standards
on large BHCs such as Wells Fargo. We will continue to analyze these proposed and
recently finalized rules and other regulatory proposals that may affect
liquidity risk management
to determine the level of operational or compliance impact to Wells Fargo. For
additional information see the  Capital Management  and  Regulatory Reform 
sections in this Report.  

Parent    Under SEC rules, our Parent is
classified as a  well-known seasoned issuer,  which allows it to file a
registration statement that does not have a limit on issuance capacity.     In April 2012, the Parent filed a
registration statement with the SEC for the issuance of senior and
subordinated notes, preferred stock and other securities. The Parent s ability
to issue debt and other securities under this registration
statement is limited by the debt issuance authority granted by the Board.
The Parent is currently authorized by the Board to issue $60 billion in
outstanding short-term debt and $170 billion in outstanding long-term debt.  
  At December 31, 2013, the
Parent had available $41.9 billion in short-term debt issuance authority and
$82.2 billion in long-term debt issuance authority. The Parent s debt
issuance authority granted by the Board includes short-term and long-term debt
issued to affiliates. During 2013, the Parent issued     $13.1 billion of senior notes, of
which $6.9 billion were registered with the SEC.     In addition, during 2013, the
Parent issued $5.5 billion of subordinated notes, all of which were registered
with the SEC.     During fourth quarter 2013, the Parent exchanged
$2.1 billion of subordinated notes issued by Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. for $2.4     billion
of unregistered subordinated notes issued by the Parent.     In
addition, during fourth quarter 2013, the Parent exchanged $672 million of
subordinated notes issued by the Parent for $723 million of unregistered
subordinated notes issued by the Parent. A registration statement     filed
by the Parent on December 17, 2013, was declared effective on January 3, 2014,
and provides for these newly issued unregistered subordinated notes to be
exchanged for registered securities. The offer to exchange these unregistered subordinated
notes for registered notes commenced on January 6, 2014. In addition, in January
2014, the Parent issued $1.7 billion of registered senior notes.  

  The Parent s proceeds from securities
issued in 2013 were used for general corporate purposes, and, unless otherwise
specified in the applicable prospectus or prospectus supplement, we expect the
proceeds from securities issued in the future will be used for the same
purposes. Depending on market conditions, we may purchase our outstanding debt
securities from time to time in privately negotiated or open market
transactions, by tender offer, or otherwise.  

  Table 55     provides information regarding
the Parent s medium-term note (MTN) programs. The Parent may issue senior and
subordinated debt securities under Series L   M, and the European and
Australian programmes. Under Series K, the Parent may issue senior debt
securities linked to one or more indices or bearing interest at a fixed or
floating rate.  

Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A.   
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is authorized by its board of directors to issue
$100 billion in outstanding short-term debt and $125 billion in
outstanding long-term debt. At December 31, 2013, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
had available $100 billion in short-term debt issuance authority and $80.1
billion in long-term debt issuance authority.   In March 2012, Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. established a $100 billion bank note program under which, subject to any
other debt outstanding under the limits described above, it may issue $50
billion in outstanding short-term senior notes and $50 billion in outstanding
long-term senior or subordinated notes. During     2013, Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. issued $8.9 billion of senior notes under the bank note program. At
December 31, 2013, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. had remaining issuance capacity under
the bank note program of $50 billion in short-term senior notes and $36.6
billion in long-term senior or subordinated notes. In addition, during 2013, Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. executed advances of $24.0 billion with the Federal Home Loan
Bank of Des Moines, of which $19.0 billion remained outstanding at December 31,
2013.  

Wells Fargo
Canada Corporation   
In February 2014, Wells Fargo Canada Corporation (WFCC), an indirect
wholly owned Canadian subsidiary of the Parent, qualified with the Canadian
provincial securities commissions   a base shelf prospectus for the distribution from
time to time in Canada of up to   CAD
$7.0 billion in medium-term notes. During     2013  , WFCC issued CAD $1.5 billion in
medium-term notes using availability outstanding under its prior base shelf
prospectus. In January 2014, WFCC issued an additional CAD $1.3 billion in
medium-term notes also using availability outstanding under its prior base
shelf prospectus. All medium-term notes issued by WFCC are unconditionally
guaranteed by the Parent.  

Federal Home Loan
Bank Membership      The Federal Home Loan Banks (the FHLBs)
are a group of cooperatives that lending institutions use to finance housing
and economic development in local communities. We are a member of the FHLBs
based in Dallas, Des Moines and San Francisco. Each member of the FHLBs is
required to maintain a minimum investment in capital stock of the applicable
FHLB. The board of directors of each FHLB can increase the minimum investment
requirements in the event it has concluded that additional capital is required
to allow it to meet its own regulatory capital requirements. Any increase in
the minimum investment      

97   

Risk

Management   Asset/Liability Management                 (continued)              

requirements outside of
specified ranges requires the approval of the Federal Housing Finance Board.
Because the extent of any obligation to increase our investment in any of the
FHLBs depends entirely upon the occurrence of a future event, potential future
payments to the FHLBs are not determinable.  

Capital
Management                                                                                                                                                           

We
have an active program for managing stockholders  equity and regulatory
capital, and maintain a comprehensive process for assessing the Company s
overall capital adequacy. Our objective is to maintain capital at an amount
commensurate with our risk profile and risk tolerance objectives, and to meet
both regulatory and market expectations. Our potential sources of stockholders 
equity primarily include retention of earnings net of dividends, as well as
issuances of common and preferred stock. Retained earnings increased
$14.7 billion from December 31, 2012, predominantly from
Wells Fargo net income of     $21.9 billion,
less common and preferred stock dividends of $7.2 billion. During     2013, we issued approximately 115
million shares of common stock, substantially all of which     related to employee benefit
plans.     In March
2013, w  e
issued 25 million Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000 th 
interest in a share of the Company s newly issued 5.25% Non-Cumulative
Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series P, for an aggregate public offering
price of $625 million.     In July 2013, we issued 69 million Depositary
Shares, each representing a 1/1,000 th  interest in a share of the
Company s newly issued 5.85% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual
Class A Preferred Stock, Series Q, for an aggregate public offering price of
$1.7 billion.     In
December 2013, we issued 34 million Depositary Shares, each representing a
1/1000 th  interest in a share of the Company s newly issued   6.625%
Fixed-to-Floating Rate   Non-Cumulative
Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series R, for an aggregate public offering
price of $840 million. During 2013, we repurchased     approximately 124 million shares
of common stock in open market transactions and from employee benefit plans, at
a net cost of $5.1     billion.
In addition, t  he
Company entered into a $500 million forward purchase contract in December 2013
with an unrelated third party that is expected to settle in first quarter 2014
for approximately 11 million shares.     For additional information
about our forward repurchase agreements see Note 1 (Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report.   

Regulatory Capital Guidelines   

  The
Company and each of our insured depository institutions are subject to various
regulatory capital adequacy requirements administered by the FRB and the OCC.
Risk-based capital (RBC) guidelines establish a risk-adjusted ratio relating
capital to different categories of assets and off-balance sheet exposures. At
December 31, 2013, the Company and each of our insured depository institutions
were  well-capitalized  under applicable regulatory capital adequacy
guidelines. See Note 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to
Financial Statements in this Report for additional information.  

  Current regulatory RBC rules are
based primarily on broad credit     risk
considerations and market-related risks, but do not take into account other
types of risk facing a financial services company. The RBC rules are based
primarily upon the 1988 capital accord of the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision (BCBS) establishing international guidelines for determining
regulatory capital known as  Basel I.      Our
capital adequacy assessment process contemplates a wide range of risks that the
Company is exposed to and also takes into consideration our performance under a
variety of stressed economic conditions, as well as regulatory expectations and
guidance, rating agency viewpoints and the view of capital markets
participants.  

  Effective January 1, 2013, the
Company implemented changes to the market risk capital rule, commonly referred
to as Basel 2.5, as required by federal banking regulators. Basel 2.5 requires
banking organizations with significant trading activities to adjust their
capital requirements to better account for the market risks of those
activities.     The market risk capital rule is reflected in the
Company s calculation of RWA and, upon initial adoption in first quarter 2013,     reduced
capital ratios under Basel I     by approximately 25 basis points,
but did not impact our ratio under Basel III, as its impact has historically
been included in our calculations. In December 2013, the FRB approved a final
rule, effective April 1, 2014, revising the market risk capital rule to, among
other things, conform the rule to the FRB s new capital framework finalized in
July 2013 and discussed below. For additional information see the  Risk
Management   Asset/Liability Management  section in this Report.  

  In 2007, federal banking
regulators approved a final rule adopting revised international guidelines for
determining regulatory capital known as  Basel II.  Basel II incorporates three
pillars that address (a) capital adequacy, (b) supervisory review, which
relates to the computation of capital and internal assessment processes, and
(c) market discipline, through increased disclosure requirements. We entered the
 parallel run phase  of Basel II in July 2012. During the  parallel run phase, 
banking organizations must successfully complete an evaluation period under
supervision from regulatory agencies in order to receive approval to calculate
risk-based capital requirements under the advanced approach guidelines. The
parallel run phase will continue until we receive regulatory approval to exit
parallel reporting and subsequently begin publicly reporting our advanced
approach regulatory capital results and related disclosures.  

  In December 2010, the BCBS
finalized a set of further revised international guidelines for determining
regulatory capital known as  Basel III.  These guidelines were developed in
response to the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 and were intended to address
many of the weaknesses identified in the previous Basel standards, as well as
in the banking sector that contributed to the crisis including excessive
leverage, inadequate and low quality capital and insufficient liquidity
buffers.  

  In July 2013, federal banking
regulators approved final and interim final rules to implement the BCBS Basel
III capital guidelines for U.S. banking organizations.     These final capital
rules,     among
other things:  

implement in
the United States the Basel III regulatory capital reforms including those that
revise the definition of capital, increase minimum capital ratios, and
introduce a minimum Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1)     ratio of 4.5% and a capital conservation buffer of
2.5% (for a total minimum CET1 ratio of 7.0%) and a potential countercyclical
buffer of up to 2.5%, which would be imposed by regulators at their discretion
if it is      

98   

determined that a period of excessive credit
growth is contributing to an increase in systemic risk;  

require a Tier 1 capital to average
total consolidated assets ratio of 4% and introduce, for large and
internationally active bank holding companies (BHCs), a Tier 1 supplementary leverage
ratio of 3% that incorporates off-balance sheet exposures;  

revise Basel
I rules for calculating RWA to enhance risk sensitivity under a standardized
approach;  

modify
the existing Basel II advanced approaches rules     for calculating RWA to
implement Basel III;   

deduct
certain assets from CET1, such as deferred tax assets that could not be
realized through net operating loss carry-backs, significant investments in
non-consolidated financial entities, and MSRs, to the extent any one category
exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such items, in the aggregate, exceed 15% of CET1;  

eliminate
the accumulated other comprehensive income or loss filter that applies under
RBC rules over a five-year phase in beginning in 2014; and  

comply
with the Dodd-Frank Act provision prohibiting the reliance on external credit
ratings.      

We were required to comply with
the final Basel III capital rules beginning January 2014, with certain
provisions subject to phase-in periods. The Basel III capital rules are
scheduled to be fully phased in by January 1, 2022.     Based on our
interpretation of the final capital rules, we estimate that our CET1 ratio
under the final     Basel III capital rules     using
the advanced approach method exceeded the fully phased-in minimum of 7.0% by 276     basis
points at December 31, 2013. Because the rules were only recently finalized,
the interpretations and assumptions we use in estimating our calculations are
subject to change depending on our ongoing review of the final capital rules
and any guidance received from our regulators.  

  Consistent with the Collins
Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, banking organizations that have completed
their parallel run process and have been approved by the FRB to use the
advanced approach methodology to determine applicable minimum risk-weighted
capital ratios and additional buffers must use the higher of their RWA as
calculated under (i)     the advanced approach rules, and
(ii) from January 1, 2014, to December 31, 2014, the general Basel I RBC rules
and, commencing on January 1, 2015, and thereafter, the risk weightings under
the standardized approach.  

  In July 2013, federal banking
regulators introduced proposals that would enhance the recently finalized
supplementary leverage ratio requirements for large BHCs like Wells Fargo and
their insured depository institutions. Under the proposals, effective on
January 1, 2018, a covered BHC would be required to maintain a supplementary
leverage ratio of at least 5% to avoid restrictions on capital distributions
and discretionary bonus payments. The proposals would also require that all of
our insured depository institutions maintain a supplementary leverage ratio of
6% in order to be considered well capitalized.   Based on our review, our current leverage levels
would exceed the applicable proposed requirements for the holding company and
each of our     insured   
  depository institutions.  
  Federal banking regulators,
however, have indicated they may make further changes to the U.S. supplementary
leverage ratio requirements based on revisions to the Basel III leverage
framework proposed by the BCBS in 2013 and finalized in January 2014.     In addition, as
discussed in the    Risk
Management   Asset/Liability Management     Liquidity and Funding  section in
this Report, a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding the U.S. implementation
of the Basel III LCR was issued by the FRB, OCC and FDIC in October 2013.     The
proposal, which has not been finalized, was substantially similar to the BCBS
proposal but differed in some respects that may be viewed as a stricter version
of the LCR, such as proposing a more aggressive phase-in period.  

  The FRB has also indicated that
it is in the process of considering new rules to address the amount of equity
and unsecured debt a company must hold to facilitate its orderly liquidation
and to address risks related to banking organizations that are substantially
reliant on short-term wholesale funding.     In addition, the FRB
is developing rules to implement an additional CET1 capital surcharge on those
U.S. banking organizations, such as the Company, that have been designated by
the Financial Stability Board (FSB) as global systemically important banks
(G-SIBs). The G-SIB surcharge would be in addition to the minimum Basel III 7.0%
CET1 requirement and ranges from 1.0% to 3.5% of RWA, depending on the bank s
systemic importance, which would be determined under an indicator-based
approach that considers five broad categories: cross-jurisdictional activity;
size; inter-connectedness; substitutability/financial institution
infrastructure; and complexity. The G-SIB surcharge is expected to be phased in
beginning in January 2016 and become fully effective on January 1, 2019. The
FSB, in an updated listing published in November 2013 based on year-end 2012
data, identified the Company as one of the 29 G-SIBs and provisionally
determined that the Company s surcharge would be 1.0%. The FSB is expected to
update the list of G-SIBs and their required surcharges prior to implementation
based on additional or future data.  

Capital Planning and Stress Testing         

  Under
the FRB s capital plan rule, large BHCs are required to submit capital plans
annually for review to determine if the FRB has any objections before making
any capital distributions.   The
rule requires updates to capital plans in the event of material changes in a
BHC s risk profile, including as a result of any significant acquisitions.  

  On March 14, 2013, the FRB
notified us that it did not object to our 2013 capital plan included in the
2013 CCAR.     Since
the FRB notification, the Company took several capital actions, including
increasing its quarterly common stock dividend rate to $0.30     per share, redeeming     Wachovia Preferred Funding Corp.
preferred securities that will no longer count as Tier 1 capital under the
Dodd-Frank Act and the final Basel III capital standards, and repurchasing
shares of our common stock.  

  Our 2014 CCAR, which was
submitted on January 3, 2014, included a comprehensive capital plan supported
by an assessment of expected uses and sources of capital over a given planning
horizon under a range of expected and stress scenarios, similar to the process
the FRB used to conduct the CCAR in 2013. As part of the 2014 CCAR, the FRB
also generated a supervisory stress test,     which assumed a sharp
decline in the economy and significant decline in asset pricing using the
information provided by the Company to estimate performance.     The
FRB is expected to     review the supervisory stress results
both as required under the Dodd-Frank Act using a common set of capital actions
for all large BHCs and by taking into account the Company s proposed capital
actions. The FRB has indicated that it will     publish its
supervisory stress test results as required under the Dodd-Frank Act, and the
related CCAR results      

99   

Capital Management

       (continued)              

taking into account the Company s
proposed capital actions,     in March 2014.  

  In addition to CCAR, federal banking
regulators also require stress tests to evaluate whether an institution has sufficient
capital to continue to operate during periods of adverse economic and financial
conditions. In October 2012, t  he FRB issued final rules
regarding stress testing requirements as required under the Dodd-Frank Act
provision imposing enhanced prudential standards on large BHCs such as Wells
Fargo. The OCC issued and finalized similar rules during 2012 for stress
testing of large national banks. The FRB issued interim final rules in
September 2013 clarifying how companies should incorporate the Basel III
capital rules into their capital planning and stress testing exercises.     These stress testing rules, which became effective for Wells Fargo on
November 15, 2012, set forth the timing and type of stress test activities
large BHCs and banks must undertake as well as rules governing stress testing
controls, oversight and disclosure requirements. As required under the FRB s
stress testing rule, we completed a mid-cycle stress test based on March 31,
2013, data and scenarios developed by the Company. We submitted the results of
the mid-cycle stress test to the FRB in July 2013 and disclosed a summary of
the results in September 2013.  

Securities Repurchases   

  From
time to time the Board authorizes the Company to repurchase shares of our
common stock. Although we announce when the Board authorizes share repurchases,
we typically do not give any public notice before we repurchase our shares.   Future stock repurchases
may be private or open-market repurchases, including block transactions,
accelerated or delayed block transactions, forward transactions, and similar
transactions. Additionally, we may enter into plans to purchase stock that
satisfy the conditions of Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   Various factors determine the
amount and timing of our share repurchases, including our capital requirements,
the number of shares we expect to issue for employee benefit plans and
acquisitions, market conditions (including the trading price of our stock), and
regulatory and legal considerations, including the FRB s response to our
capital plan and to changes in our risk profile.  

  In October 2012, the Board
authorized the repurchase of 200 million shares. At   December 31, 2013  ,   we had remaining authority under
this authorization to purchase  
approximately 74     million
shares, subject to regulatory and legal conditions.     For more information about share
repurchases during 2013, see Part II, Item 2 in this Report.  

  Historically, our policy has been
to repurchase shares under the  safe harbor  conditions of Rule 10b-18 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 including a limitation on the daily volume of
repurchases. Rule 10b-18 imposes an additional daily volume limitation on
share repurchases during a pending merger or acquisition in which shares of our
stock will constitute some or all of the consideration. Our management may
determine that during a pending stock merger or acquisition when the safe
harbor would otherwise be available, it is in our best interest to repurchase
shares in excess of this additional daily volume limitation. In such cases, we
intend to repurchase shares in compliance with the other conditions of the safe
harbor, including the standing daily volume limitation that applies whether or
not there is a pending stock merger or acquisition.  

  In connection with our
participation in the Capital Purchase Program (CPP), a part of the Troubled
Asset Relief Program (TARP), we issued to the U.S. Treasury Department warrants
to purchase 110,261,688 shares of our common stock with an exercise price of
$34.01 per share expiring on October 28, 2018. The Board authorized the
repurchase by the Company of up to $1 billion of the warrants. On May 26, 2010,
in an auction by the U.S. Treasury, we purchased 70,165,963 of the warrants at
a price of $7.70 per warrant. We have purchased an additional 986,426 warrants,
all on the open market, since the U.S. Treasury auction. At December 31,     2013,
there were 39,108,864 warrants outstanding and exercisable and
$452 million of unused warrant repurchase authority. Depending on market
conditions, we may purchase from time to time additional warrants in privately
negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise.  

Risk-Based Capital and Risk-Weighted Assets   

  Table
56 and Table 57 provide information regarding the composition of and change in
our risk-based capital, respectively, under Basel I.  

100   

Table 56:  Risk-Based
  Capital Components Under Basel I   

December
  31,   

(in billions)  

2013    

2012   

Total equity  

$   

171.0    

158.9   

Noncontrolling interests  

(0.9)    

(1.3)   

Common stockholders' equity  

170.1    

157.6   

Adjustments:  

Preferred stock  

(15.2)    

(12.0)   

Cumulative other comprehensive income  

(1.4)    

(5.6)   

Goodwill and other intangible assets (1)  

(29.6)    

(30.4)   

Investment in certain subsidiaries and other  

(0.4)    

(0.6)   

Tier 1 common equity (2)  

(A)  

123.5    

109.0   

Preferred stock  

15.2    

12.0   

Qualifying hybrid securities and noncontrolling interests   

2.0    

5.6   

Total Tier 1 capital  

140.7    

126.6   

Long-term debt and other instruments qualifying as Tier 2  

20.5    

17.2   

Qualifying allowance for credit losses  

14.3    

13.6   

Other  

0.7    

0.2   

Total Tier 2 capital  

35.5    

31.0   

Total qualifying capital  

(B)  

$   

176.2    

157.6   

Risk-weighted assets (RWAs) (3):  

Credit risk   

$   

1,105.2    

1,066.2   

Market risk   

36.3    

10.9   

Total RWAs  

(C)  

$   

1,141.5    

1,077.1   

Capital Ratios:  

Tier 1 common equity to total RWAs  

(A)/(C)  

10.82    

%    

10.12   

Total capital  

(B)/(C)  

15.43    

14.63   

(1)  

Goodwill and other intangible assets are net of any associated
  deferred tax liabilities.  

(2)  

Tier 1 common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that is
  used by investors, analysts and bank regulatory agencies to assess the
  capital position of financial services companies. Management reviews Tier 1
  common equity along with other measures of capital as part of its financial
  analyses and has included this non-GAAP financial information, and the
  corresponding reconciliation to total equity, because of current interest in
  such information on the part of market participants.  

(3)  

Under the regulatory guidelines for risk-based capital,
  on-balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of derivatives and
  off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of several broad risk categories
  according to the obligor, or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of any
  collateral. The aggregate dollar amount in each risk category is then
  multiplied by the risk weight associated with that category. The resulting
  weighted values from each of the risk categories are aggregated for
  determining total risk-weighted assets.  

101   

Capital Management

       (continued)              

Table 58 presents information on
the components of RWAs included within our regulatory capital ratios under
Basel I. Additional information regarding the composition of market
risk-weighted assets is provided in Table 59     in this Report.      

102   

Table
59     presents changes
in RWAs for the year ended December 31, 2013.  

The increase in on-balance sheet
RWAs was primarily due to increased market risk, loan exposure and     investment securities.
Off-balance sheet RWAs primarily increased due to newly issued commitments and
guarantees.  

  Table 60 provides information
regarding our     CET1
calculation as estimated under Basel III using the advanced approach method.  

Table 60: 
  Common Equity Tier 1 Under Basel III (1)(2)   

(in billions)  

December
  31, 2013   

Tier 1 common equity under Basel I  

$  

123.5   

Adjustments from Basel I to Basel III (3) (4):  

Cumulative other comprehensive income related to AFS securities
  and defined benefit pension plans  

1.3   

Other  

1.4   

Total adjustments from Basel I to Basel III  

2.7   

Threshold deductions, as defined under Basel III (4) (5)  

-   

Common Equity Tier 1 anticipated under Basel III  

(C)  

$   

126.2   

Total RWAs anticipated under Basel III (6)  

(D)  

$   

1,293.4   

Common Equity Tier 1 to total RWAs anticipated under Basel III  

(C)/(D)  

9.76   

%  

(1)  

Common Equity Tier 1 is a non-GAAP financial measure that is
  used by investors, analysts and bank regulatory agencies to assess the
  capital position of financial services companies. Management reviews Common
  Equity Tier 1 along with other measures of capital as part of its financial
  analyses and has included this non-GAAP financial information, and the
  corresponding reconciliation to total equity, because of current interest in
  such information on the part of market participants.  

(2)  

The Basel III Common Equity Tier 1 and RWAs are estimated based
  on management s interpretation of the Basel III capital rules adopted July 2,
  2013, by the FRB. The rules establish a new comprehensive capital framework
  for U.S. banking organizations that implement the Basel III capital framework
  and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.  

(3)  

Adjustments from Basel I to Basel III represent reconciling
  adjustments, primarily certain components of cumulative other comprehensive
  income deducted for Basel I purposes, to derive Common Equity Tier 1 under
  Basel III.  

(4)  

Volatility in interest rates can have a significant impact on
  the valuation of cumulative other comprehensive income and MSRs and
  therefore, may impact adjustments from Basel I to Basel III, and MSRs subject
  to threshold deductions, as defined under Basel III, in future reporting
  periods.  

(5)  

Threshold deductions, as defined under Basel III, include
  individual and aggregate limitations, as a percentage of Common Equity Tier
  1, with respect to MSRs (net of related deferred tax liability, which
  approximates the MSR book value times the applicable statutory tax rates),
  deferred tax assets and investments in unconsolidated financial companies.  

(6)  

The final Basel III capital rules provide for two capital frameworks: 
  the  standardized  approach intended to replace Basel I, and the
   advanced  approach applicable to certain institutions as
  originally defined under Basel II. Under the final rules, we will be subject
  to the lower of our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio calculated under the
  standardized approach and under the advanced approach in the assessment of
  our capital adequacy. Accordingly, the estimate of RWA reflects management's
  interpretation of RWA determined under the advanced approach because
  management expects RWA to be higher using the advanced approach compared with
  the standardized approach. Basel III capital rules adopted by the Federal
  Reserve Board incorporate different classification of assets, with certain
  risk weights based on a borrower's credit rating or Wells Fargo's own models,
  along with adjustments to address a combination of credit/counterparty,
  operational and market risks, and other Basel III elements.  

103   

Regulatory
Reform                                                                                                                                                              

Since
the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010, the U.S. financial services
industry has been subject to a significant increase in regulation and
regulatory oversight initiatives.     This increased
regulation and oversight has substantially changed how most U.S. financial
services companies conduct business and has increased their regulatory
compliance costs. The following highlights the more significant regulations and
regulatory oversight initiatives that have affected or may affect our business.
For additional information about the regulatory reform matters discussed below
and other regulations and regulatory oversight matters, see Part I, Item 1
 Regulation and Supervision  of our 2013 Form 10-K, and the  Capital Management, 
 Forward-Looking Statements  and  Risk Factors  sections and Note 26
(Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this
Report.  

Dodd-Frank
Act   

  The
Dodd-Frank Act is the most significant financial reform legislation since the
1930s and is driving much of the current U.S. regulatory reform efforts.   The
Dodd-Frank Act and many of its provisions became effective in July 2010 and
July 2011. However, a number of its provisions still require final rulemaking
or additional guidance and interpretation by regulatory authorities or will be
implemented over time. Accordingly, in many respects the ultimate impact of the
Dodd-Frank Act and its effects on the U.S. financial system and the Company     remain uncertain.   The following provides
additional information on the Dodd-Frank Act, including the current status of
certain of its rulemaking initiatives.  

Enhanced supervision and
regulation of systemically important firms   .       The Dodd-Frank Act grants broad authority to federal banking
regulators to   establish
enhanced supervisory and regulatory requirements for systemically important
firms. The FRB has finalized a number of regulations implementing enhanced
prudential requirements for large bank holding companies (BHCs) like Wells
Fargo regarding risk-based capital and leverage, risk and liquidity management,
and stress testing and imposing debt-to-equity limits on any BHC that
regulators determine poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the
United States. The FRB has also proposed, but not yet finalized, additional
enhanced prudential standards that would implement single counterparty credit
limits and establish remediation requirements for large BHCs experiencing
financial distress.     In addition
to the authorization of enhanced supervisory and regulatory requirements for
systemically important firms,   t  he Dodd-Frank Act also established the
Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) and the Office of Financial
Research, which may recommend new systemic risk management requirements and
require new reporting of systemic risks.     The OCC, under separate authority, has also recently
released for public comment proposed new guidelines establishing heightened
governance and risk management standards for large national banks such as Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A.  

The
Collins Amendment.         This
provision of the Dodd-Frank Act phases out the benefit of issuing trust
preferred securities by eliminating them from Tier 1 capital over a three year
period that began on January 1, 2013.  

Regulation
of consumer financial products.         The Dodd-Frank Act
established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to ensure consumers
receive clear and accurate disclosures regarding financial products and to
protect them from hidden fees and unfair or abusive practices. With
respect to residential mortgage lending, the CFPB issued a number of final
rules in 2013 implementing new requirements that generally became effective in
January 2014.     These rules include provisions requiring creditors
originating residential mortgage loans to make a reasonable and good faith
determination that each applicant has a reasonable ability to repay the loan.     In
addition, these rules established a definition of  qualified mortgage  to
support a broad access to credit for consumers coupled with legal protections
for lenders and secondary market purchasers.     These rules also
impose requirements on servicers to correct loan information errors, to provide
information in response to borrower requests, and to provide protection to
borrowers in cases of force-placed insurance.     Other rules address
policy and procedural concerns, such as requirements to provide notice or
information regarding certain interest rate adjustments or payoff information;
to evaluate borrower applications for and to provide delinquent borrowers with
information regarding loss mitigation options; and to establish loan originator
compensation restrictions, high-cost mortgage requirements, appraisal
requirements, and escrow standards for higher-priced mortgages.     In
November 2013, the CFPB also finalized rules integrating disclosures required
of lenders and settlement agents under the Truth in Lending Act and the Real
Estate Settlement Procedures Act effective August 1, 2015.     In
addition to these rulemaking activities, the CFPB is continuing its on-going
supervisory examination activities of the financial services industry with
respect to a number of consumer businesses and products, including credit card
add-on products, fair lending requirements, and student lending activities.     At
this time, the Company cannot predict the full impact of the CFPB s rulemaking
and supervisory authority on our business practices or financial results.  

  Regulators also
provided guidance to the financial services industry regarding the provision of
short-term, small-dollar loans to consumers, such as our direct deposit advance
service.     On January 17, 2014, we announced that we would
discontinue our direct deposit advance service.     New consumer checking
accounts opened February 1, 2014, or later will not be eligible to access the
service, while existing customers will be able to access the service until
mid-2014. Discontinuation of the service is not expected to have a material
financial impact on the Company.  

Volcker
Rule.       The
Volcker Rule substantially restricts banking entities from engaging in
proprietary trading or owning any interest in or sponsoring or having certain
relationships with a hedge fund, a private equity fund or certain structured
transactions that are deemed covered funds.   On December 10, 2013, federal banking regulators,
the SEC and CFTC jointly released a final rule to implement the Volcker Rule s
restrictions. Banking entities are not required to come into compliance
with the Volcker Rule s restrictions until July 21, 2015. Banking entities
with $50 billion or more in trading assets and liabilities such as Wells Fargo,
however, will be required to      

104   

report certain trading
metrics beginning June 30, 2014. During the conformance period, banking
entities are expected to engage in  good-faith  planning efforts, appropriate
for their activities and investments, to enable them to conform all of their
activities and investments to the Volcker Rule s restrictions by no later than
July 21, 2015. Limited further extensions of the compliance period may be
granted at the discretion of the FRB. As a banking entity with more than
$50 billion in consolidated assets, we will also be subject to enhanced
compliance program requirements. We continue to evaluate the final rule
and assess its impact on our trading and investment activities, but we do not
anticipate a material impact to our financial results as proprietary trading is
not significant to our financial results. Moreover, we already have
reduced or exited certain businesses in anticipation of the rule s compliance
date and, although we expect to have to divest certain investments in
non-conforming funds as a result of the rule, such divestments will be limited
and are not expected to be material to our financial results.  

Regulation of swaps
and other derivatives activities   .       The Dodd-Frank Act established a
comprehensive  
  framework for regulating over-the-counter
derivatives and authorized the CFTC and the SEC to regulate swaps and
security-based swaps, respectively. The CFTC and SEC jointly adopted new rules
and interpretations that established the compliance dates for many of their
rules implementing the new regulatory framework, including provisional
registration of our national bank subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as a swap
dealer, which occurred at the end of 2012.     In addition, the CFTC has adopted final rules that,
among other things, require extensive regulatory and public reporting of swaps,
require certain swaps to be centrally cleared and traded on exchanges or other
multilateral platforms, and require swap dealers to comply with comprehensive
internal and external business conduct standards.     Margin rules for swaps not centrally cleared have been
proposed and, if adopted, may significantly increase the cost of hedging in the
over-the-counter market.     These
new rules, as well as others being considered by regulators in other jurisdictions,
may negatively impact customer demand for over-the-counter derivatives.  

  Also included in this
regulatory framework are certain  push-out  provisions affecting U.S. banks
acting as dealers in commodity swaps, equity swaps and certain credit default
swaps, which will require that these activities be conducted through an
affiliate. The  push-out  provision in the Dodd-Frank Act provided for a July
2013 effective date     and granted the OCC discretion to
provide a transition period of up to two years for banks to comply with the new
requirements. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. prepared and filed a transition period
request with the OCC, and the OCC granted the request providing a twenty-four
month transition period which began on July 16, 2013.  

Changes
to ABS markets.         The Dodd-Frank Act requires
sponsors of ABS to hold at least a 5% ownership stake in the ABS. Exemptions
from the requirement include qualified residential mortgages (QRMs) and FHA/VA
loans. Federal regulatory agencies proposed initial joint rules in 2011 to
implement this credit risk retention requirement, which included an exemption
for the GSE s mortgage-backed securities. The 2011 proposal was subject to
extensive public comment, and the agencies issued a second proposal in 2013.     The
second proposal revised the definition of QRMs, which are exempt from the risk
retention requirements, to align the definition with the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau s definition of  qualified mortgage.   
  The
second proposal also addressed the measures for complying with the risk
retention requirement and continued to provide limited exemptions for
qualifying commercial loans, qualifying commercial real estate loans, and
qualifying automobile loans that meet certain requirements.     If
adopted as written, the current proposal may impact our ability to issue
certain asset-backed securities or otherwise participate in various
securitization transactions. Final rules have not yet been issued.  

Enhanced
regulation of money market mutual funds.         Citing concerns with
perceived risks that money market mutual funds may pose to the financial
stability of the United States, the FSOC released proposed recommendations to
the SEC for additional regulations governing these funds.     The
FSOC s proposed recommendations included implementation of floating net asset
value requirements, redemption holdback provisions, and capital buffer
requirements. These proposed recommendations would be in addition to regulatory
changes with respect to money market mutual funds made by the SEC in 2010.     The
FSOC released the proposed recommendations for public comment but has not yet
adopted final recommendations.     Following the FSOC s proposal,
the SEC issued its own proposed regulatory changes that would, among other
things, require a floating net asset value for prime institutional money market
funds, or liquidity fees and redemption gates during periods of stress for
non-governmental money market funds, or a combination of both measures.     The
SEC s proposal was subject to public comment, but the SEC has not yet adopted
any of the proposed regulatory changes.  

Regulation
of interchange transaction fees (the Durbin Amendment).       On
October 1, 2011, the FRB rule enacted to implement the Durbin Amendment to the
Dodd-Frank Act that limits debit card interchange transaction fees to those
 reasonable  and  proportional  to the cost of the transaction became
effective.     The rule generally established that the maximum
allowable interchange fee that an issuer may receive or charge for an electronic
debit transaction is the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points
multiplied by the value of the transaction.     On July 31, 2013, the
U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia ruled that the approach used
by the FRB in setting the maximum allowable interchange transaction fee
impermissibly included costs that were specifically excluded from consideration
under the Durbin Amendment.     The District Court s decision
maintained the current interchange transaction fee standards until the FRB
drafts new regulations or interim standards.     In August 2013, the
FRB filed a notice of appeal of the decision to the United States Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia.     In September 2013, the
Court of Appeals granted a joint motion for an expedited appeal, and the
District Court s order has been stayed pending the appeal.     The
Court of Appeals held oral arguments on the appeal in January 2014.  

Regulatory
Capital Guidelines and Capital Plans         

  During
2013, federal banking regulators issued final rules that substantially amended
the risk-based capital rules for banking organizations.     The rules implement the Basel III regulatory capital
reforms in the U.S., comply with changes required by the Dodd-Frank      

105   

Regulatory

Reform                 (continued)              

Act, and replace the existing Basel I-based capital
requirements.  
  We were required to begin
complying with the rules on January 1, 2014, subject to phase-in periods that
are scheduled to be fully phased in by January 1, 2022.   Federal banking regulators have also issued proposals
to impose a supplementary leverage ratio on large BHCs like Wells Fargo and our
insured depository institutions and to implement the Basel III liquidity
coverage ratio.  
  For more information on the final capital
rules, the proposed leverage and liquidity rules, and additional capital
requirements under consideration by federal banking regulators, see the
 Capital Management  section in this Report.  

Living
Will  Requirements and Related Matters   

  Rules adopted by the FRB and the FDIC under the Dodd-Frank
Act require large financial institutions, including Wells Fargo, to prepare and
periodically revise resolution plans, so called  living-wills , that would
facilitate their resolution in the event of material distress or failure. Under
the rules, resolution plans are required to provide strategies for resolution
under the Bankruptcy Code and other applicable insolvency regimes that can be
accomplished in a reasonable period of time and in a manner that mitigates the
risk that failure would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability
of the United States.     Wells Fargo
submitted its resolution plan under these rules on June 29, 2013. If the FRB
and FDIC determine that our resolution plan is deficient, the Dodd-Frank Act
authorizes the FRB and FDIC to impose more stringent capital, leverage or
liquidity requirements on us or restrict our growth or activities until we
submit a plan remedying the deficiencies. If the FRB and FDIC ultimately
determine that we have been unable to remedy the deficiencies, they could order
us to divest assets or operations in order to facilitate our orderly resolution
in the event of our material distress or failure. Our national bank subsidiary,
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., is also required to prepare a resolution plan for the
FDIC under separate regulatory authority and submitted the plan on June 29,
2013.  

  The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes an
orderly liquidation process which allows for the appointment of the FDIC as a
receiver of a systemically important financial institution that is in default
or in danger of default. The FDIC has issued rules to implement its orderly
liquidation authority and   recently
released a notice regarding a proposed
resolution strategy, known as  single     point      of   
  entry,  designed to resolve a large
financial institution in a manner that holds management responsible for its
failure, maintains market stability, and imposes losses on shareholders and
creditors in accordance with statutory priorities, without imposing a cost on
U.S. taxpayers.  
  Implementation of the strategy would
require that institutions maintain a sufficient amount of available equity and
unsecured debt to absorb losses and recapitalize operating subsidiaries.     The FDIC has requested public comment on this proposed
resolution strategy.  

Critical
Accounting Policies                                                                                                                                                 

Our
significant accounting policies (see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report) are fundamental to
understanding our results of operations and financial condition because they
require that we use estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our
assets or liabilities and financial results. Six of these policies are critical
because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex
judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely
that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions
or using different assumptions. These policies govern:   

the allowance
for credit losses;   

PCI loans;   

the valuation
of residential MSRs;  

liability for
mortgage loan repurchase losses;   

the fair
valuation of financial instruments; and  

income taxes.

Management has reviewed and
approved these critical accounting policies and has discussed these policies
with the Board s Audit and Examination Committee.  

Allowance
for Credit Losses    

  The
allowance for credit losses, which consists of the allowance for loan losses
and the allowance for unfunded credit commitments, is management s estimate of
credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio,   including unfunded credit commitments,   at the balance sheet date, excluding loans carried at
fair value.   We develop and
document our allowance methodology at the portfolio segment level. Our loan
portfolio consists of a commercial loan portfolio segment and a consumer loan
portfolio segment.  

  We employ a disciplined process and methodology to
establish our allowance for credit losses.   The total allowance for credit losses considers both
impaired and unimpaired loans.   While our
methodology attributes portions of the allowance to specific portfolio
segments, the entire allowance for credit losses is available to absorb credit
losses inherent in the total loan portfolio   and unfunded credit commitments  .   No
single statistic or measurement determines the appropriateness of the allowance
for credit losses.  

COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO SEGMENT    
  The allowance for credit
losses for unimpaired commercial loans is estimated through the application of
loss factors to loans based on credit risk ratings for each loan.   In addition, the
allowance for unfunded credit commitments, including letters of credit, is
estimated by applying these loss factors to loan equivalent exposures.   The loss factors reflect the
estimated default probability and quality of the underlying collateral. The
loss factors used are statistically derived through the observation of historical
losses incurred for loans within each credit risk rating over a relevant
specified period of time. We apply our judgment to adjust or supplement these
loss factors and estimates to reflect other risks that may be identified from
current conditions and developments in selected portfolios. These risk ratings
are subject to review by an internal team of credit specialists.  

   The allowance also includes an amount for estimated
credit losses on impaired loans such as nonaccrual loans and loans that have
been modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual status.  

CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SEGMENT     Loans are pooled generally by
product type with similar risk characteristics. Losses are estimated using
forecasted losses to represent our best estimate of inherent loss   based on   historical experience,
quantitative and other mathematical      

106   

techniques over
the loss emergence period. Each business group exercises significant judgment
in the determination of the credit loss estimation model that fits the credit
risk characteristics of its portfolio. We use both internally developed and
vendor supplied models in this process. We often use roll rate or net flow
models for near-term loss projections, and vintage-based models, behavior score
models, and time series or statistical trend models for longer-term
projections. Management must use judgment in establishing additional input
metrics for the modeling processes, considering further stratification into
sub-product, origination channel, vintage, loss type, geographic location and
other predictive characteristics.   In addition, we establish an allowance for consumer
loans modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual status.  

  The models used to determine the
allowance are validated by an internal model validation group operating in
accordance with Company policies.  

other acl matters       The
allowance for credit losses for both portfolio segments includes an amount for
imprecision or uncertainty that may change from period to period. This amount
represents management s judgment of risks inherent in the processes and
assumptions used in establishing the allowance. This imprecision considers
economic environmental factors, modeling assumptions and performance, process
risk, and other subjective factors, including industry trends and risk
assessments for our commitments to regulatory and government agencies     regarding
settlements of mortgage foreclosure-related matters.  

  Impaired loans, which
predominantly include nonaccrual commercial loans and any loans that have been
modified in a TDR have an estimated allowance calculated as the difference, if
any, between the impaired value of the loan and the recorded investment in the
loan. The impaired value of the loan is generally calculated as the present
value of expected future cash flows from principal and interest, which
incorporates expected lifetime losses, discounted at the loan s effective
interest rate. The development of these expectations requires significant
management review and judgment. When collateral is the sole source of repayment for
an impaired loan, rather than the borrower s income or other sources of
repayment, we charge down to net realizable value which may reduce or eliminate
the need for an allowance. The
allowance for an unimpaired loan is based solely on principal losses without
consideration for timing of those losses. The allowance for an impaired loan
that was modified in a TDR may be lower than the previously established
allowance for that loan due to benefits received through modification, such as
lower probability of default and/or severity of loss, and the impact of prior
charge-offs or charge-offs at the time of the modification that may reduce or
eliminate the need for an allowance.  

  Commercial and consumer PCI loans
may require an allowance subsequent to their acquisition. This allowance
requirement is due to probable decreases in expected principal and interest
cash flows (other than due to decreases in interest rate indices and changes in
prepayment assumptions).  

SENSITIVITY
TO CHANGES         Changes in the allowance for credit losses
and, therefore, in the related provision for credit losses can materially
affect net income. In applying the review and judgment required to determine
the allowance for credit losses, management considers changes in economic
conditions, customer behavior, and collateral value, among other influences.
From time to time, economic factors or business decisions, such as the addition
or liquidation of a loan product or business unit, may affect the loan
portfolio, causing management to provide or release amounts from the allowance
for credit losses.  

  The allowance for credit losses for commercial loans,
including unfunded credit commitments (individually risk weighted) is sensitive
to credit risk ratings assigned to each credit exposure. Commercial loan risk
ratings are evaluated based on each situation by experienced senior credit
officers and are subject to periodic review by an internal team of credit
specialists.  

  The allowance for credit losses for consumer
loans (statistically modeled) is sensitive to economic assumptions and
delinquency trends.   Forecasted losses are
modeled using a range of economic scenarios.  

  Assuming a one risk rating downgrade throughout our
commercial portfolio segment, a more pessimistic economic outlook for modeled
losses on our consumer portfolio segment and incremental deterioration in our
PCI portfolio could imply an additional allowance requirement of approximately
$8.4     billion.   

  Assuming a one risk rating upgrade throughout our
commercial portfolio segment and a more optimistic economic outlook for modeled
losses on our consumer portfolio segment could imply a reduced allowance requirement
of approximately $2.0 billion.  

  The sensitivity analyses provided are hypothetical
scenarios and are not considered probable. They do not represent management s
view of inherent losses in the portfolio as of the balance sheet date. Because
significant judgment is used, it is possible that others performing similar
analyses could reach different conclusions.  

  See the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management 
section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial
Statements in this Report for further discussion of our allowance.   

Purchased
Credit-Impaired (PCI) Loans    

  Loans
acquired with evidence of credit deterioration since their origination and
where it is probable that we will not collect all contractually required
principal and interest payments are PCI loans. PCI loans are recorded at fair
value at the date of acquisition, and the historical allowance for credit
losses related to these loans is not carried over. Such loans are considered to
be accruing due to the existence of the accretable yield and not based on
consideration given to contractual interest payments. Substantially all of our
PCI loans were acquired in the Wachovia acquisition on December 31, 2008.  

  Management evaluates whether there is evidence of
credit quality deterioration as of the purchase date using indicators such as
past due and nonaccrual status, commercial risk ratings, recent borrower credit
scores and recent loan-to-value percentages.  

  The fair value at acquisition is based on an
estimate of cash flows, both principal and interest, expected to be collected,
discounted at the prevailing market rate of interest. We estimate the cash
flows expected to be collected at acquisition using our internal credit risk,
interest rate risk and prepayment risk models, which incorporate our best
estimate of current key assumptions, such as property values, default rates,
loss severity and prepayment speeds.  

  Substantially all commercial and industrial,
CRE and foreign PCI loans are accounted for as individual loans. Conversely,
Pick-a-Pay and other consumer PCI loans have been aggregated into pools based
on common risk characteristics. Each pool is accounted for as a single      

107   

Critical

Accounting Policies        (continued)              

asset with a single composite interest rate and an
aggregate expectation of cash flows.  

  The excess of cash flows expected to be
collected over the carrying value (estimated fair value at acquisition date) is
referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest income using
an effective yield method over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of
loans, in situations where there is a reasonable expectation about the timing
and amount of cash flows expected to be collected. The difference between the
contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to be collected at
acquisition, considering the impact of prepayments, is referred to as the
nonaccretable difference.  

  Subsequent to acquisition, we regularly evaluate our
estimates of cash flows expected to be collected. These evaluations, performed
quarterly, require the continued usage of key assumptions and estimates,
similar to our initial estimate of fair value. We must apply judgment to develop
our estimates of cash flows for PCI loans given the impact of home price and
property value changes, changing loss severities, modification activity, and
prepayment speeds.  

  If we have probable decreases in cash flows
expected to be collected (other than due to decreases in interest rate indices
and changes in prepayment assumptions), we charge the provision for credit
losses, resulting in an increase to the allowance for loan losses. If we have
probable and significant increases in cash flows expected to be collected, we
first reverse any previously established allowance for loan losses and then
increase interest income as a prospective yield adjustment over the remaining
life of the loan, or pool of loans. Estimates of cash flows are impacted by
changes in interest rate indices for variable rate loans and prepayment
assumptions, both of which are treated as prospective yield adjustments
included in interest income.  

  The amount of cash flows expected to be
collected and, accordingly, the appropriateness of the allowance for loan loss
due to certain decreases in cash flows expected to be collected, is
particularly sensitive to changes in loan credit quality. The sensitivity of
the overall allowance for credit losses, including PCI loans, is presented in
the preceding section,  Critical Accounting Policies   Allowance for Credit
Losses.   

  See the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management 
section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial
Statements in this Report for further discussion of PCI loans.  

Valuation
of Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights    

  MSRs
are assets that represent the rights to service mortgage loans for others. We
recognize MSRs when we purchase servicing rights from third parties, or retain
servicing rights in connection with the sale or securitization of loans we
originate (asset transfers). We also have MSRs acquired in the past under
co-issuer agreements that provide for us to service loans that were originated
and securitized by third-party correspondents. We initially measure and carry
our MSRs related to residential mortgage loans at fair value.  

  At the end of each quarter, we
determine the fair value of MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the
present value of estimated future net servicing income. The model incorporates
assumptions that market participants use in estimating future net servicing
income, including estimates of prepayment speeds (including housing price
volatility), discount rates, default rates, cost to service (including
delinquency and foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings, contractual
servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees.  

  N  et servicing income, a component
of mortgage banking noninterest income, includes the changes from period
to period in fair value of both our residential MSRs and the free-standing
derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge our residential MSRs. Changes in
the fair value of residential MSRs result from (1) changes in the valuation
model inputs or assumptions and (2) other changes, representing changes due to
collection/realization of expected cash flows. Changes in fair value due to
changes in significant model inputs and assumptions include prepayment speeds
(which are influenced by changes in mortgage interest rates and borrower
behavior, including estimates for borrower default), discount rates, and
servicing and foreclosure costs.  

  We use a dynamic and
sophisticated model to estimate the value of our MSRs. The model is validated
by an internal model validation group operating in accordance with Company
policies. Senior management reviews all significant assumptions quarterly.
Mortgage loan prepayment speed   a key assumption in the model   is the annual
rate at which borrowers are forecasted to repay their mortgage loan principal
including estimates for borrower default. The discount rate used to determine
the present value of estimated future net servicing income   another key
assumption in the model   is the required rate of return investors in the
market would expect for an asset with similar risk. To determine the discount
rate, we consider the risk premium for uncertainties from servicing operations
(e.g., possible changes in future servicing costs, ancillary income and
earnings on escrow accounts). Both assumptions can, and generally will, change
quarterly as market conditions and interest rates change. For example, an
increase in either the prepayment speed or discount rate assumption results in
a decrease in the fair value of the MSRs, while a decrease in either assumption
would result in an increase in the fair value of the MSRs. In recent years,
there have been significant market-driven fluctuations in loan prepayment
speeds and the discount rate. These fluctuations can be rapid and may be
significant in the future. Therefore, estimating prepayment speeds within a
range that market participants would use in determining the fair value of MSRs
requires significant management judgment. Additionally, in recent years, we
have made significant adjustments to the assumptions for servicing and
foreclosure costs as a result of an increase in the number of defaulted loans
as well as changes in servicing processes associated with default and
foreclosure management. While our current valuation reflects our best estimate
of these costs, future regulatory changes in servicing standards, as well as
changes in individual state foreclosure legislation,     may have an impact on these
assumptions and our MSR valuation in future periods.  

  The valuation and sensitivity of
MSRs is discussed further in Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies), Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities), Note 9
(Mortgage Banking Activities) and Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and
Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report.   

Liability for Mortgage Loan
Repurchase Losses   

  We sell residential mortgage loans to
various parties, including (1) GSEs, which include the mortgage loans in
GSE-guaranteed mortgage securitizations, (2) special purpose entities that
issue private label MBS, and (3) other financial institutions that purchase
mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. In addition, we
pool FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed mortgage loans, which back securities
guaranteed by GNMA.   The
agreements under which we sell mortgage loans and the insurance or guaranty
agreements with FHA      

108      

and VA contain provisions that
include various representations and warranties regarding the origination and
characteristics of the mortgage loans. Although the specific representations
and warranties vary among different sales, insurance or guarantee agreements,
they typically cover ownership of the loan, compliance with loan criteria set
forth in the applicable agreement, validity of the lien securing the loan,
absence of delinquent taxes or liens against the property securing the loan,
compliance with applicable origination laws, and other matters.   For more information about these loan sales and the related
risks that may result in liability see the  Risk Management   Credit Risk
Management   Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  section in this
Report.  

  We may be required to repurchase
mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or
reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses
incurred on loans (collectively  repurchase ) in the event of a breach of
contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied within a period
(usually 90 days or less) after we receive notice of the breach. Our loan sale
contracts to private investors (non-GSE) typically contain an additional
provision where we would only be required to repurchase loans if any such
breach is deemed to have a material and adverse effect on the value of the
mortgage loan or to the interests of the investors or interests of security
holders in the mortgage loan.   The
time periods specified in our mortgage loan sales contracts to respond to
repurchase requests vary, but are generally 90 days or less. While many
contracts do not include specific remedies if the applicable time period for a
response is not met, contracts for mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include
various types of specific remedies and penalties that could be applied to
inadequate responses to repurchase requests. Similarly, the agreements under
which we sell mortgage loans require us to deliver various documents to the
securitization trust or investor, and we may be obligated to repurchase any
mortgage loan for which the required documents are not delivered or are
defective. In addition, as part of our representations and warranties in our
loan sales contracts, we typically represent to GSEs and private investors that
certain loans have mortgage insurance to the extent there are loans that have
loan to value ratios in excess of 80% that require mortgage insurance. To the
extent the mortgage insurance is rescinded by the mortgage insurer due to a
claim of breach of a contractual representation or warranty, the lack of
insurance may result in a repurchase demand from an investor. Upon receipt of a
repurchase request or a mortgage insurance rescission, we work with
securitization trusts, investors or insurers to arrive at a mutually agreeable
resolution. Repurchase demands are typically reviewed on an individual loan by
loan basis to validate the claims made by the securitization trust, investor or
insurer, and to determine whether a contractually required repurchase event
occurred. Occasionally, in lieu of conducting a loan level evaluation, we may
negotiate global settlements in order to resolve a pipeline of demands in lieu
of repurchasing the loans. We manage the risk associated with potential
repurchases or other forms of settlement through our underwriting and quality
assurance practices and by servicing mortgage loans to meet investor and
secondary market standards.  

  We establish mortgage repurchase
liabilities related to various representations and warranties that reflect
management s estimate of losses for loans for which we could have a repurchase
obligation, whether or not we currently service those loans, based on a
combination of factors. Such factors include default expectations, expected
investor repurchase demands (influenced by current and expected mortgage loan
file requests and mortgage insurance rescission notices, as well as estimated
levels of origination defects) and appeals success rates (where the investor
rescinds the demand based on a cure of the defect or acknowledges that the loan
satisfies the investor s applicable representations and warranties),
reimbursement by correspondent and other third party originators, and projected
loss severity. We establish a liability at the time loans are sold and
continually update our liability estimate during the remaining life of such
loans.   Although activity can
vary by investor, investors may demand repurchase at any time and there is
often a lag from the date of default to the time we receive a repurchase
demand. The majority of repurchase demands are on loans that default in the
first 24 to 36 months following origination of the mortgage loan. The most
significant portion of our repurchases under our representation and warranty
provisions are attributable to borrower misrepresentations and loan
underwriting issues.  

  To date, repurchase demands from private
label MBS have been more limited than GSE-guaranteed securities; however, it is
possible that requests to repurchase mortgage loans in private label
securitizations may increase in frequency as investors explore every possible
avenue to recover losses on their securities. We evaluate the validity and
materiality of any claim of breach of representations and warranties in private
label MBS that is brought to our attention and work with securitization
trustees to resolve any repurchase requests. Nevertheless, we may be subject to
legal and other expenses if private label securitization trustees or investors
choose to commence legal proceedings in the event of disagreements.  

  The mortgage loan repurchase
liability at December 31, 2013, represents our best estimate of the probable
loss that we may incur for various representations and warranties in the
contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage loans. Because the level of
mortgage loan repurchase losses is dependent on economic factors, investor
demand strategies and other external conditions that may change over the life
of the underlying loans, the level of the liability for mortgage loan
repurchase losses is difficult to estimate and requires considerable management
judgment. We maintain regular contact with the GSEs and other significant
investors to monitor and address their repurchase demand practices and
concerns. For additional information on our repurchase liability, including an
adverse impact analysis, see the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  
Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  section and Note 9 (Mortgage
Banking Activities) to Financial Statements in this Report.  

Fair
Value of Financial Instruments   

  We
use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain
financial instruments and to determine fair value disclosures. Trading assets,
securities available for sale, derivatives, substantially all residential MHFS,
certain loans held for investment, certain nonmarketable equity investments,
securities sold but not yet purchased (short sale liabilities) and certain
long-term debt instruments are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis.
Additionally, from time to time, we may be required to record at fair value
other assets on a nonrecurring basis, such as certain MHFS and LHFS, loans held
for investment and certain other assets. These nonrecurring fair value
adjustments typically involve application of lower-of-cost-or-market accounting
or write-downs of individual assets.   Additionally, for certain financial instruments not
recorded at fair value we disclose the estimate of their fair value.  

109   

Critical

Accounting Policies        (continued)              

Fair
value represents the price that would be received to sell the financial asset
or paid to transfer the financial liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date.  

  The accounting provisions for
fair value measurements include a three-level hierarchy for disclosure of
assets and liabilities recorded at fair value. The classification of assets and
liabilities within the hierarchy is based on whether the inputs to the
valuation methodology used for measurement are observable or unobservable.
Observable inputs reflect market-derived or market-based information obtained
from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our estimates about
market data.   For
additional information on fair value levels, see Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets
and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report.  

  When developing fair value
measurements, we maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of
unobservable inputs. When available, we use quoted prices in active markets to
measure fair value. If quoted prices in active markets are not available, fair
value measurement is based upon models that use primarily market-based or
independently sourced market parameters, including interest rate yield curves,
prepayment speeds, option volatilities and currency rates. However, in certain
cases, when market observable inputs for model-based valuation techniques are
not readily available, we are required to make judgments about assumptions
market participants would use to estimate fair value.  

  The degree of management judgment
involved in determining the fair value of a financial instrument is dependent
upon the availability of quoted prices in active markets or observable market
parameters. For financial instruments with quoted market prices or observable
market parameters in active markets, there is minimal subjectivity involved in
measuring fair value. When quoted prices and observable data in active markets
are not fully available, management judgment is necessary to estimate fair
value. Changes in the market conditions, such as reduced liquidity in the
capital markets or changes in secondary market activities, may reduce the
availability and reliability of quoted prices or observable data used to
determine fair value. When significant adjustments are required to price quotes
or inputs, it may be appropriate to utilize an estimate based primarily on
unobservable inputs. When an active market for a financial instrument does not
exist, the use of management estimates that incorporate current market
participant expectations of future cash flows, adjusted for an appropriate risk
premium, is acceptable.  

  We may use third party
pricing services and brokers (collectively,  pricing vendors ) to obtain fair
values ( vendor prices ) which are used to either record the price of an
instrument or to corroborate internally developed prices. We have processes in
place to approve such vendors to ensure information obtained and valuation
techniques used are appropriate. Once these vendors are approved to provide
pricing information, we monitor and review the results to ensure the fair
values are reasonable and in line with market experience with similar asset
classes. For certain securities, we may use internal traders to price
instruments. Where vendor prices are utilized for recording the price of an
instrument, we determine the most appropriate and relevant pricing vendor for
each security class and obtain a price from that particular pricing vendor for
each security.  

  Determination of the
fair value of financial instruments using either vendor prices or internally
developed prices is subject to our internal price validation procedures, which
include, but are not limited to  ,   one or a combination of the
following procedures:  

comparison to pricing vendors (for
internally developed prices) or to other pricing vendors (for vendor developed
prices);   

variance analysis of prices;   

corroboration of pricing by
reference to other independent market data such as secondary broker quotes and
relevant benchmark indices;   

review of pricing by Company
personnel familiar with market liquidity and other market-related conditions;
and  

investigation of prices on a
specific instrument-by-instrument basis.  

For instruments where we utilize vendor
prices to record the price of an instrument, we perform additional procedures.
We evaluate pricing vendors by comparing prices from one vendor to prices of
other vendors for identical or similar instruments and evaluate the consistency
of prices to known market transactions when determining the level of reliance
to be placed on a particular pricing vendor. Methodologies employed, controls
in place and inputs used by third party pricing vendors are subject to
additional review when such services are provided. This review may consist of,
in part, obtaining and evaluating control reports issued and pricing
methodology materials distributed.  

  Significant judgment is required to determine whether
certain assets measured at fair value are included in Level 2 or Level 3. When
making this judgment, we consider available information, including observable
market data, indications of market liquidity and orderliness, and our
understanding of the valuation techniques and significant inputs used. For
securities in inactive markets, we use a predetermined percentage to evaluate
the impact of fair value adjustments derived from weighting both external and
internal indications of value to determine if the instrument is classified as
Level 2 or Level 3. Otherwise, the classification of Level 2 or Level 3 is
based upon the specific facts and circumstances of each instrument or
instrument category and judgments are made regarding the significance of the
Level 3 inputs to the instruments  fair value measurement in its entirety. If
Level 3 inputs are considered significant, the instrument is classified as
Level 3.  

  Our financial assets valued using Level 3 measurements
consist of collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), certain collateralized loan
obligations (CLOs), asset-backed securities, auction-rate securities, certain
derivative contracts such as interest rate lock loan commitments on residential
MHFS and credit default swaps related to collateralized mortgage obligation
(CMO), CDO and CLO exposures and certain MHFS, certain loans, and MSRs. For
additional information on how we value MSRs refer to the discussion earlier in
this section.  

  Table 61 presents the summary of the fair value of
financial   instruments recorded
at fair value on a recurring basis, and the amounts measured using significant
Level 3 inputs (before derivative netting adjustments). The fair value of the
remaining assets and liabilities were measured using valuation methodologies
involving market-based or market-derived information (collectively Level 1 and
2 measurements).  

110   

See
Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this
Report for a complete discussion on our fair valuation of financial
instruments, our related measurement techniques and the impact to our financial
statements.  

Income
Taxes    

  We
are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities
and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Our income tax
expense consists of current and deferred     income
tax expense. Current income tax expense represents our estimated taxes to
be paid or refunded for the current period and includes income tax expense
related to our uncertain tax positions. We determine deferred income taxes
using the balance sheet method. Under this method, the net deferred tax
asset or liability is based on the tax effects of the differences between the
book and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and recognizes enacted changes in
tax rates and laws in the period in which they occur. Deferred income tax
expense results from changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities between
periods. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to management s judgment
that realization is  more likely than not.  Uncertain tax positions that meet
the more likely than not recognition threshold are measured to determine the
amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain tax position is measured at
the largest amount of benefit that management believes has a greater than 50%
likelihood of realization upon     settlement.   Tax benefits not
meeting our realization criteria represent unrecognized tax benefits. Our
unrecognized tax benefits on uncertain tax positions are reflected in Note 21
(Income Taxes) to Financial Statements in this Report.   Foreign taxes paid are generally
applied as credits to reduce federal income taxes payable. We account for
interest and penalties as a component of income tax expense.  

  The income
tax laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate are complex
and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant
government taxing authorities. In establishing a provision for income tax
expense, we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of
these inherently complex tax laws. We must also make estimates about when in
the future certain items will affect taxable income in the various tax
jurisdictions by the government taxing authorities, both domestic and
foreign. Our interpretations may be subjected to review during examination
by taxing authorities and disputes may arise over the respective tax
positions. We attempt to resolve these disputes during the tax examination
and audit process and ultimately through the court systems when applicable.  

  We
monitor relevant tax authorities and revise our estimate of accrued income
taxes due to changes in income tax laws and their interpretation by the courts
and regulatory authorities on a quarterly basis. Revisions of our estimate of accrued
income taxes also may result from our own income tax planning and from the
resolution of income tax controversies. Such revisions in our estimates may be
material to our operating results for any given quarter.  

  See
Note 21 (Income Taxes) to Financial Statements in this Report for a further
description of our provision for income taxes and related income tax assets and
liabilities.  

111   

Current
Accounting Developments                                                                                                                                    

The following accounting
pronouncements have been issued by the FASB but are not yet effective:  

Accounting Standards Update (ASU or Update) 2014-04, Receivables  
   Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors (Subtopic 310-40)   Reclassification
of Residential Real Estate Collateralized Consumer Mortgage Loans upon Foreclosure   

ASU      2014-01,    Investments   Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic
323): Accounting for Investments in Qualified Affordable Housing Projects   

ASU 2013-11,    Income Taxes (Topic 740):     Presentation of
an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar
Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists   ; and  

ASU 2013-08,    Financial Services   Investment Companies (Topic
946):       Amendments to the Scope, Measurement and Disclosure Requirements   .   

ASU 2014-04    clarifies the timing of when a
creditor is considered to have taken physical possession of residential real
estate collateral for a consumer mortgage loan, resulting in the
reclassification of the loan receivable to real estate owned. A creditor has
taken physical possession of the property when either (1) the creditor obtains
legal title through foreclosure, or (2) the borrower transfers all interests in
the property to the creditor via a deed in lieu of foreclosure or a similar
legal agreement. The Update also requires disclosure of the amount of
foreclosed residential real estate property held by the creditor and the
recorded investment in residential real estate mortgage loans that are in process
of foreclosure. These changes are effective for us in first quarter 2015 with
prospective application. Early adoption is permitted. Our adoption of this
guidance will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial
statements.  

ASU 2014-01      amends the criteria a company must meet to elect to account for
investments in qualified affordable housing projects using a method other than
the cost or equity methods. If the criteria are met, a company is permitted to
amortize the initial investment cost in proportion to and over the same period
as the total tax benefits the company expects to receive. The amortization of
the initial investment cost and tax benefits are to be recorded in the income
tax expense line. The Update also requires new disclosures about all
investments in qualified affordable housing projects regardless of the
accounting method used. These changes are effective for us in first quarter
2015 with retrospective application. Early adoption is permitted. We are
evaluating the impact this Update will have on our consolidated financial
statements.  

ASU 2013-11    is expected to eliminate
diversity in practice as it provides guidance on financial statement
presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss (NOL) carryforward,
a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward     exists. These changes are
effective for us in first quarter 2014 with prospective application applied to
all unrecognized tax benefits that exist at the effective date. Early adoption
and retrospective application are permitted. This Update will not have a
material effect on our consolidated financial statements.  

ASU 2013-08    amends the scope, measurement
and disclosure requirements for investment companies. The Update changes criteria
companies use to assess whether an entity is an investment company. In
addition, investment companies must measure noncontrolling ownership interests
in other investment companies at fair value rather than using the equity method
of accounting. This Update also requires new disclosures, including     information about changes, if
any, in an entity s status as an investment company and information about
financial support provided or contractually required to be provided by an
investment company to any of its investees. These changes are effective for us
in first quarter 2014 with prospective application. Early adoption is not
permitted. The Update will not have a material effect on our consolidated
financial statements.  

112   

Forward-Looking
Statements                                                                                                                                             

This
document contains  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, we may make
forward-looking statements in our other documents filed or furnished with the
SEC, and our management may make forward-looking statements orally to analysts,
investors, representatives of the media and others. Forward-looking statements
can be identified by words such as  anticipates,   intends,   plans,   seeks, 
 believes,   estimates,   expects,   target,   projects,   outlook, 
 forecast,   will,   may,   could,   should,   can  and similar references to
future periods. In particular, forward-looking statements include, but are not
limited to, statements we make about: (i) the future operating or financial
performance of the Company, including our outlook for future growth; (ii) our
noninterest expense and efficiency ratio; (iii) future credit quality and
performance, including our expectations regarding future loan losses and allowance
releases; (iv) the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses; (v) our
expectations regarding net interest income and net interest margin; (vi) loan
growth or the reduction or mitigation of risk in our loan portfolios; (vii)
future capital levels and our estimated     Common Equity     Tier
1 ratio under Basel III capital standards; (viii) the performance of our
mortgage business and any related exposures; (ix) the expected outcome and
impact of legal, regulatory and legislative developments, as well as our
expectations regarding compliance therewith; (x) future common stock dividends,
common share repurchases and other uses of capital; (xi) our targeted range for
return on assets and return on equity; (xii) the outcome of contingencies, such
as legal proceedings; and (xiii) the Company s plans, objectives and
strategies.  

  Forward-looking
statements are not based on historical facts but instead represent our current
expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other
future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future,
they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances
that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those
contemplated by the forward-looking statements. We caution you, therefore,
against relying on any of these forward-looking statements. They are neither
statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future
performance. While there is no assurance that any list of risks and
uncertainties or risk factors is complete, important factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking
statements include the following, without limitation:  

current and
future economic and market conditions, including the effects of declines in
housing prices, high unemployment rates  , U.S. fiscal debt, budget and
tax matters, and the overall slowdown in global economic growth  ;    

our capital
and liquidity requirements   (including
under regulatory capital standards, such as the Basel III capital standards)   and our ability to generate
capital internally or raise capital on favorable terms;  

financial
services reform and other current, pending or future legislation or regulation
that could have a negative effect on our revenue and businesses, including the
Dodd-Frank Act and other legislation and regulation relating to bank products
and services;  

the extent of
our success in our loan modification efforts, as well as the effects of
regulatory requirements or guidance regarding loan modifications;  

the amount of
mortgage loan repurchase demands that we receive and our ability to satisfy any
such demands without having to repurchase loans related thereto or otherwise
indemnify or reimburse third parties, and the credit quality of or losses on
such repurchased mortgage loans;  

negative
effects relating to our mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices, including
our obligations under the settlement with the Department of Justice and other
federal and state government entities, as well as changes in industry standards
or practices, regulatory or judicial requirements, penalties or fines,
increased servicing and other costs or obligations, including loan modification
requirements, or delays or moratoriums on foreclosures;  

our
ability to realize our efficiency ratio target as part of our expense
management initiatives, including as a result of business and economic
cyclicality, seasonality, changes in our business composition and operating
environment, growth in our businesses and/or acquisitions, and unexpected
expenses relating to, among other things, litigation and regulatory matters;  

the effect of
the current low interest rate environment or changes in interest rates on our net
interest income, net interest margin and our mortgage originations, mortgage
servicing rights and mortgages held for sale;   

a
recurrence of significant turbulence or disruption in the capital or financial
markets, which could result in, among other things, reduced investor demand for
mortgage loans, a reduction in the availability of funding or increased funding
costs, and declines in asset values and/or recognition of other-than-temporary
impairment on securities held in our investment securities portfolio;  

the effect of
a fall in stock market prices on our investment banking business and our fee
income from our brokerage, asset and wealth management businesses;  

reputational
damage from negative publicity, protests, fines, penalties and other negative
consequences from regulatory violations and legal actions;  

a
failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure,
or those of our third party vendors or other service providers, including as a
result of cyber attacks;  

the effect of
changes in the level of checking or savings account deposits on our funding
costs and net interest margin;   

fiscal and
monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board; and  

the other
risk factors and uncertainties described under  Risk Factors  in this Report.   

In addition to the
above factors, we also caution that the amount and timing of any future common
stock dividends or repurchases will depend on the earnings, cash requirements
and financial condition of the Company, market conditions, capital requirements
(including under Basel capital standards), common stock issuance requirements,
applicable law and regulations (including federal securities laws and federal
banking regulations), and other factors deemed relevant by the Company s Board
of Directors, and may be subject to regulatory approval or conditions.  

  For more information
about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our
expectations, refer to our reports filed with      

113   

Forward-Looking

Statements                 (continued)              

the
Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under  Risk
Factors  in this Report, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
and available on its website at   www.sec.gov  .   

  Any forward-looking
statement made by us speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Factors or
events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to
time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. We undertake no
obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a
result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be
required by law.  

Risk
Factors                                                                                                                                                                          

An
investment in the Company involves risk, including the possibility that the
value of the investment could fall substantially and that dividends or other
distributions on the investment could be reduced or eliminated. We discuss
below risk factors that could adversely affect our financial results and
condition, and the value of, and return on, an investment in the Company.   

RISKS
RELATED TO THE ECONOMY, FINANCIAL MARKETS, INTEREST RATES AND LIQUIDITY   

As one of the largest lenders in the U.S. and a provider of financial
products and services to consumers and businesses across the U.S. and
internationally, our financial results have been, and will continue to be,
materially       affected by
    general          economic
conditions, particularly     unemployment levels and     home prices in the U.S., and a
deterioration in economic conditions or in the financial markets may materially
adversely affect our lending and other businesses and our financial results and condition    .        We generate revenue from the interest and fees we charge on the loans and
other products and services we sell, and a substantial amount of our revenue and
earnings comes from the net interest income and fee income that we earn from
our consumer and commercial lending and banking businesses, including our
mortgage banking business where we currently are the largest mortgage
originator in the U.S. These businesses have been, and will continue to be,
materially affected by the state of the U.S. economy, particularly unemployment
levels and home prices. Although the U.S. economy has continued to gradually
improve from the depressed levels of 2008 and early 2009, economic growth has
been slow and uneven. In addition, the negative effects and continued
uncertainty stemming from U.S. fiscal and political matters, including concerns
about deficit levels, taxes and U.S. debt ratings, have impacted and may continue
to impact the continuing global economic recovery.   For example, the U.S. government
experienced a temporary closure in October 2013 due to the government s
inability to reach a budget agreement, and, although a temporary agreement was
reached, the risk of future closures or even a U.S. government default exists
if further agreements cannot be achieved.   A prolonged period of slow growth in the
global economy, particularly in the U.S., or any deterioration in general
economic conditions and/or the financial markets resulting from the above
matters or any other events or factors that may disrupt or dampen the global
economic recovery   ,    
could       materially   adversely
affect our     financial        results and   condition.   

  The improvement in the U.S.
economy as well as higher home prices contributed to our strengthened credit
performance and allowed us to release amounts from our allowance for credit
losses, however there is no guarantee we will have allowance releases in the
future.
If unemployment   levels   worsen   
or if home prices fall   we would
expect to incur elevated charge-offs and provision expense from increases in
our allowance for credit losses. These conditions may adversely affect not only
consumer loan performance but also commercial and CRE loans, especially   for
  those business borrowers that rely on the health of industries
that may experience deteriorating economic conditions  .   The
ability of these and other borrowers to repay
their loans may deteriorate, causing us, as
one of the largest commercial lenders and the largest CRE lender in the U.S.,
to incur significantly higher credit losses. In addition, weak or deteriorating
economic conditions make it more challenging for us to increase our consumer
and commercial loan portfolios by making loans to creditworthy borrowers at
attractive yields. Although we have significant capacity to add loans to our
balance sheet, loan demand, especially consumer loan demand, has been soft
resulting in our retaining a much higher amount of lower yielding liquid assets
on our balance sheet. If economic conditions do not continue to improve or if the economy worsens and unemployment rises, which also
would likely result in a decrease in consumer and business confidence and
spending, the demand for our credit products, including our mortgages, may fall, reducing our interest and noninterest income and our earnings.  

  A deterioration in business and
economic conditions, which may erode consumer and investor confidence levels,   and/or
increased volatility of financial markets,   also could adversely
affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including our investment
advisory  , mutual fund  , securities brokerage, wealth
management, and investment banking businesses.       In 2013, approximately 25% of our
revenue was fee income, which included trust and investment fees, card fees and
other fees.     We earn fee income from managing assets
for others and providing brokerage and other investment advisory and wealth
management services. Because investment management fees are often based on the value
of assets under management, a fall in the market prices of those assets could
reduce our fee income. Changes in stock market prices could affect the trading
activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our
brokerage business.   The
U.S. stock market experienced all-time highs in 2013 and there is no guarantee
that those price levels will continue.   Poor economic conditions and
volatile or unstable financial markets also can negatively affect our debt and equity
underwriting and advisory businesses, as well as our trading and venture
capital businesses. Any
deterioration in global financial markets and economies, including as a result
of any international political unrest or disturbances, may adversely affect the
revenues and earnings of our international operations, particularly our global
financial institution and correspondent banking services.  

  For more information, refer to the  Risk
Management   Asset/Liability Management  and    Credit Risk Management  sections in
this Report.  

Changes in interest rates and financial market
values could reduce our net interest income and earnings, including as a result
of recognizing losses or OTTI on the securities that we hold in our portfolio
or trade for our customers.         Our
net interest income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities and other
assets we hold less      

114   

the interest we pay on our
deposits, long-term and short-term debt, and other liabilities. Net interest
income is a measure of both our net interest margin   the difference between
the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and
our other sources of funding   and the amount of earning assets we hold.
Changes in either our net interest margin or the amount or mix of earning
assets we hold could affect our net interest income and our earnings. Changes
in interest rates can affect our net interest margin. Although the yield we
earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in
response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the
other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities
tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in
response to changes in interest rates. When interest rates rise, our funding
costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net
interest margin to contract until the asset yield increases.  

  The amount and type of earning assets we hold can
affect our yield and net interest margin. We hold earning assets in the form of
loans and investment securities, among other assets. As noted above, if the
economy worsens we may see lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers,
reducing our net interest income and yield. In addition, our net interest
income and net interest margin can be negatively affected by a prolonged low
interest rate environment, which as noted below is currently being experienced
as a result of economic conditions and FRB monetary policies, as it may result in
us holding short-term lower yielding loans and securities on our balance sheet,
particularly if we are unable to replace the maturing higher yielding assets,
including the loans in our non-strategic and liquidating loan portfolio, with
similar higher yielding assets. Increases in interest rates, however, may
negatively affect loan demand and could result in higher credit losses as
borrowers may have more difficulty making higher interest payments. As
described below, changes in interest rates also affect our mortgage business,
including the value of our MSRs.  

  Changes in the slope of the  yield curve    or the
spread between short-term and long-term interest rates   could also reduce our
net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning
short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend
to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens, as is
the case in the current interest rate environment, or even inverts, our net
interest margin could decrease as our cost of funds increases relative to the
yield we can earn on our assets.  

  The interest we earn on our loans may be tied to
U.S.-denominated interest rates such as the federal funds rate while the
interest we pay on our debt may be based on international rates such as LIBOR.
If the federal funds rate were to fall without a corresponding decrease in
LIBOR, we might earn less on our loans without any offsetting decrease in our
funding costs. This could lower our net interest margin and our net interest
income.  

  We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the
effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions
about the direction, magnitude and speed of interest rate changes and the slope
of the yield curve. We hedge some of that interest rate risk with interest rate
derivatives. We also rely on the  natural hedge  that our mortgage loan
originations and servicing rights can provide.  

  We generally do not hedge all of our interest rate
risk. There is always the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our
net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if actual
conditions turn out to be materially different than what we assumed. For
example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than we assumed or the slope of
the yield curve changes, we may incur significant losses on debt securities we
hold as investments. To reduce our interest rate risk, we may rebalance our
investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt and take other strategic
actions. We may incur losses when we take such actions.  

  We hold securities in our investment securities
portfolio, including U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities and federal
agency MBS, securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions, residential
and commercial MBS, corporate debt securities, other asset-backed securities
and marketable equity securities, including securities relating to our venture
capital activities. We analyze securities held in our investment securities
portfolio for OTTI on at least a quarterly basis. The process for determining
whether impairment is other than temporary usually requires difficult,
subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer and
any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of
receiving contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because
of changing economic and market conditions, as well as credit ratings,
affecting issuers and the performance of the underlying collateral, we may be
required to recognize OTTI in future periods. Our net income also is exposed to
changes in interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity and
commodity prices in connection with our trading activities, which are conducted
primarily to accommodate our customers in the management of their market price
risk, as well as when we take positions based on market expectations or to
benefit from differences between financial instruments and markets. The
securities held in these activities are carried at fair value with realized and
unrealized gains and losses recorded in noninterest income. As part of our
business to support our customers, we trade public securities and these
securities also are subject to market fluctuations with gains and losses
recognized in net income when realized and periodically include OTTI charges.
Although we have processes in place to measure and monitor the risks associated
with our trading activities, including stress testing and hedging strategies,
there can be no assurance that our processes and strategies will be effective
in avoiding losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial
results.  

  The value of our public and
private equity investments can fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Certain
of these investments are carried under the cost or equity method, while others
are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in
earnings. Earnings from our equity investments may be volatile and hard to
predict, and may have a significant effect on our earnings from period to
period. When, and if, we recognize gains may depend on a number of factors,
including general economic and market conditions, the prospects of the
companies in which we invest, when a company goes public, the size of our
position relative to the public float, and whether we are subject to any resale
restrictions.  

  Our venture capital investments could result in
significant OTTI losses for those investments carried under the cost or equity
method. Our assessment for OTTI is based on a number of factors, including the
then current market value of each investment compared with its carrying value.
If we determine there is OTTI for an investment, we write-down the carrying
value of the investment, resulting in a charge to earnings. The amount of this
charge could be significant.  

  For more information, refer to the  Risk Management
  Asset/Liability Management   Interest Rate Risk ,    Market Risk   Equity
Investments , and    Market Risk   Trading Activities  and the      

115   

Risk Factors                 (continued)              

Balance Sheet Analysis   Investment Securities  sections
in this Report and Note 5 (Investment Securities) to Financial Statements in
this Report.  

Effective liquidity management, which ensures that we can meet customer
loan requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals and other cash
commitments, including principal and interest payments on our debt, efficiently
under both normal operating conditions and other unpredictable circumstances of
industry or financial market stress, is essential for the operation of our
business, and our financial results and condition could be materially adversely
affected if we do not effectively manage our liquidity.         Our liquidity is essential for the operation of our business. We
primarily rely on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding
for the loans we make and the operation of our business. Core customer
deposits, which include noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing
checking, savings certificates, certain market rate and other savings, and
certain foreign deposits, have historically provided us with a sizeable source
of relatively stable and low-cost funds. In addition to customer deposits, our
sources of liquidity include       investments in our securities portfolio,
our ability to sell or securitize loans in secondary markets and to pledge
loans to access secured borrowing facilities through the FHLB and the FRB, and
our ability to raise funds in domestic and international money through capital
markets.  

  Our liquidity and our ability to fund
and run our business could be materially adversely affected by a variety of
conditions and factors, including financial and credit market disruption and volatility or a lack of market or customer
confidence in financial markets in general similar to what occurred during the
financial crisis in 2008 and early 2009, which may result in a loss of customer
deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or our inability   to access capital markets on
favorable terms  . Market disruption and volatility could impact our
credit spreads, which are the amount in excess of the interest rate of U.S.
Treasury securities, or other benchmark securities, of the same maturity that
we need to pay to our funding providers. Increases in interest rates and our
credit spreads could significantly increase our funding costs. Other conditions
and factors that could materially adversely affect our liquidity and funding
include a lack of market or customer confidence in the Company or negative news
about the Company or the financial services industry generally     which also may result in a loss of
deposits and/or negatively affect our ability to access the capital markets;
our inability to sell or securitize loans or other assets, and, as described
below, reductions in one or more of our credit ratings. Many of the above
conditions and factors may be caused by events over which we have little or no
control  .   While market
conditions have continued to improve since the financial crisis,   there
can be no assurance that significant   disruption   and   
volatility   in      the    financial   markets
will not occur in the future.   For example,   the U.S. government s temporary
closure in October 2013 and continued concerns over the government s ability to
reach a budget agreement caused financial market volatility. In addition,   concerns regarding the potential failure
to raise the U.S. government debt limit and any associated downgrade of U.S.
government debt ratings     may cause uncertainty and volatility as
well. A failure to raise the U.S. debt limit in the future and/or additional
downgrades of the sovereign debt ratings of the U.S. government or the debt
ratings of related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities, as well as
other fiscal or political events could, in addition to causing economic and
financial market disruptions, materially adversely affect the market value of
the U.S. government securities that we hold, the availability of those
securities as collateral for borrowing, and our ability to access capital
markets on favorable terms, as well as have other material adverse effects on
the operation of our business and our financial results and condition.  

  As noted above, we rely  
heavily   on bank deposits for our funding and liquidity. We
compete with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. If our
competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits our funding costs may
increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing deposits or because
we lose deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Higher
funding costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income  . Checking and savings account balances
and other forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive
alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better
risk/return tradeoff. When customers move money out of bank deposits and into
other investments, we may lose a relatively low cost source of funds,
increasing our funding costs and negatively affecting our liquidity.  

  If   we are unable to continue to fund our
assets through customer bank deposits or       access
capital markets on favorable terms       or if we suffer an increase in our
borrowing costs or otherwise fail to manage our liquidity effectively, our
liquidity, net interest margin, financial results and condition may be
materially adversely affected. As we did during the financial crisis, we may
also need,     or be required by our regulators, to       raise        additional
capital through the issuance of common stock, which could dilute the ownership
of existing stockholders, or reduce or even eliminate our common stock dividend
to preserve capital or in order to raise additional capital   .    

  For more information, refer to the  Risk
Management   Asset/Liability Management  section in this Report.   

Adverse changes in our credit ratings could have a
material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows, financial results and
condition.          Our borrowing
costs and ability to obtain funding are influenced by our credit ratings.
Reductions in one or more of our credit ratings   could
adversely affect our ability to borrow funds and raise the costs of our
borrowings substantially and could cause creditors and business counterparties
to raise collateral requirements or take other actions that could adversely
affect our ability to raise funding. Credit ratings and credit ratings
agencies  outlooks   are
based on the ratings agencies  analysis of many quantitative and qualitative
factors, such as our capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix,
the level and quality of our earnings, rating agency assumptions regarding the
probability and extent of federal financial assistance or support, and other
rating agency specific criteria. In addition to credit ratings, our borrowing
costs are affected by various other external factors, including market
volatility and concerns or perceptions about the financial services industry
generally.  

  On October 8, 2013, Fitch Ratings affirmed
all the ratings of the Parent and its rated subsidiaries. On October 25, 2013,
Standard   Poor s Ratings Services (S P) affirmed all the ratings of
the Parent and its rated subsidiaries, and on November 14, 2013, Moody s
Investors Service (Moody s) confirmed all of the ratings of the Parent and its
rated subsidiaries. This ratings confirmation by Moody s followed completion of
their review regarding whether to continue incorporating the possibility of
federal support in ratings applicable to certain bank holding companies in
light of recent regulatory developments related to      

116   

the
Title II Orderly Liquidation Authority of the Dodd-Frank Act. Moody s decided
to eliminate any assumption of federal support for the impacted holding
companies, including the Parent. However, Moody s also concluded that the same
regulatory developments were likely to reduce the severity of losses for bank
holding company creditors in the event of default, reflecting the potential
benefits of a more orderly resolution of bank holding companies and their
related banks. The net result of these offsetting conclusions was the
confirmation of our ratings. S P is likewise reviewing their support
assumptions for certain bank holding companies in light of the same regulatory
developments. That review is ongoing and S P has not specified a timeframe
for completion of their review.     There
can be no assurance that we will maintain our credit ratings and outlooks and
that credit ratings downgrades in the future would not materially affect our
ability to borrow funds and borrowing costs.  

  Downgrades in our credit ratings also may
trigger additional collateral or funding obligations which could negatively
affect our liquidity, including as a result of credit-related contingent
features in certain of our derivative contracts. Although a one or two notch
downgrade in our     current credit
ratings would not be expected to trigger a material increase in our collateral
or funding obligations, a more severe credit rating downgrade of our long-term
and short-term credit ratings could increase our collateral or funding
obligations and the effect on our liquidity could be material. For information
regarding additional collateral and funding obligations required of certain
derivative instruments in the event our credit ratings were to fall below
investment grade, see Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this
Report.  

We
rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for liquidity, and federal and state
law can limit those dividends.          Wells
Fargo   Company, the parent holding company, is a separate and distinct
legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives a significant portion of its
funding and liquidity from dividends and other distributions from its
subsidiaries. We generally use these dividends and distributions, among other
things, to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and interest and
principal on our debt. Federal and state laws limit the amount of dividends and
distributions that our bank and some of our nonbank subsidiaries, including our
broker-dealer subsidiaries, may pay to our parent holding company. Also, our
right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary s
liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the
subsidiary s creditors.  

  For more information, refer to
the  Regulation and Supervision   Dividend Restrictions  and    Holding Company
Structure  sections in our 2013 Form 10-K and to Note 3 (Cash, Loan and
Dividend Restrictions) and Note 26 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements)
to Financial Statements in this Report.  

RISKS RELATED TO FINANCIAL REGULATORY REFORM AND OTHER
LEGISLATION AND REGULATIONS   

Enacted legislation and regulation, including the
Dodd-Frank Act, as well as future legislation and/or regulation, could require
us to change certain of our business practices, reduce our revenue and
earnings, impose additional costs on us or otherwise adversely affect our
business operations and/or competitive position.       Our parent company, our subsidiary banks and many of
our nonbank subsidiaries such as those related to our     brokerage and mutual fund businesses,   are
subject to significant regulation under state and federal laws in the U.S., as
well as the applicable laws of the various jurisdictions outside of the U.S.
where we conduct business. These regulations protect depositors, federal
deposit insurance funds, consumers, investors and the banking and financial
system as a whole, not necessarily our stockholders.   Economic  , market and political conditions during the
past few years have led to   a significant  
amount of new legislation and regulation in the U.S. and abroad, as well as
heightened expectations and scrutiny of financial services companies from
banking regulators. These laws and regulations may affect the manner in which
we do business and the products and services that we provide, affect or
restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses or our ability to
enter into or acquire new businesses, reduce or limit our revenue in businesses
or impose additional fees, assessments or taxes on us, intensify the regulatory
supervision of us and the financial services industry, and adversely affect our
business operations or have other negative consequences.  

  On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act, the
most significant financial reform legislation since the 1930s, became law. The
Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, (i) established the Financial Stability
Oversight Council to monitor systemic risk posed by financial firms and imposes
additional and enhanced FRB regulations, including capital and liquidity
requirements, on certain large, interconnected bank holding companies such as
Wells Fargo and systemically significant nonbanking firms intended to promote
financial stability; (ii) creates a liquidation framework for the resolution of
covered financial companies, the costs of which would be paid through
assessments on surviving covered financial companies; (iii) makes significant
changes to the structure of bank and bank holding company regulation and
activities in a variety of areas, including prohibiting proprietary trading and
private fund investment activities, subject to certain exceptions; (iv) creates
a new framework for the regulation of over-the-counter derivatives and new
regulations for the securitization market and strengthens the regulatory
oversight of securities and capital markets by the SEC; (v) established the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) within the FRB, which has sweeping
powers to administer and enforce a new federal regulatory framework of consumer
financial regulation; (vi) may limit the existing pre-emption of state laws
with respect to the application of such laws to national banks, makes federal
pre-emption no longer applicable to operating subsidiaries of national banks,
and gives state authorities, under certain circumstances, the ability to
enforce state laws and federal consumer regulations against national banks;
(vii) provides for increased regulation of residential mortgage activities;
(viii) revised the FDIC's assessment base for deposit insurance by changing
from an assessment base defined by deposit liabilities to a risk-based system
based on total assets; (ix) phases out over three years beginning January 2013
the Tier 1 capital treatment of trust preferred securities; (x) permitted banks
to pay interest on business checking accounts beginning on July 1, 2011; (xi)
authorized the FRB under the Durbin Amendment to adopt regulations that limit
debit card interchange fees received by debit card issuers; and (xii) includes
several corporate governance and executive compensation provisions and
requirements, including mandating an advisory stockholder vote on executive
compensation.  

  The Dodd-Frank Act and many of its
provisions became effective in July 2010 and July 2011. However, a number of
its provisions still require final rulemaking, guidance, and interpretation by
regulatory authorities. Accordingly, in many respects the ultimate impact of
the      

117   

Risk Factors                 (continued)              

Dodd-Frank Act and its effects on the U.S.
financial system and the Company still remain uncertain. Nevertheless, the
Dodd-Frank Act, including current and future rules implementing its provisions
and the interpretation of those rules, could result in a loss of revenue,
require us to change certain of our business practices, limit our ability to pursue
certain business opportunities, increase our capital requirements and impose
additional assessments and costs on us and otherwise adversely affect our
business operations and have other negative consequences.  

  Our consumer businesses, including our mortgage,
credit card and other consumer lending and non-lending businesses, may be
negatively affected by the activities of the CFPB, which has broad rulemaking
powers and supervisory authority over consumer financial products and services.
Although the full impact of the CFPB on our businesses is uncertain, the CFPB s
activities may increase our compliance costs and require changes in our
business practices as a result of new regulations and requirements which could
limit or negatively affect the products and services that we currently offer
our customers. For example, in 2013, the CFPB issued a number of new rules
impacting residential mortgage lending practices. As a result of greater
regulatory scrutiny of our consumer businesses, we also may become subject to
more or expanded regulatory examinations and/or investigations, which also
could result in increased costs and harm to our reputation in the event of a
failure to comply with the increased regulatory requirements.  

  The Dodd-Frank Act s proposed prohibitions
or limitations on proprietary trading and private fund investment activities,
known as the  Volcker Rule,  also may reduce our revenue and earnings, although
proprietary trading has not been significant to our financial results. Rules to
implement the requirements of the Volcker Rule were first proposed in 2011, and
final rules were issued in December 2013. Pursuant to an order of the FRB,
banking entities are required to make good faith planning efforts to come into
compliance with the Volcker Rule s restrictions by July 21, 2015, subject to
potential limited further extensions of the compliance period that may be
granted at the discretion of the FRB. Companies with $50 billion or more in
trading assets and liabilities such as Wells Fargo will be required to report
trading metrics beginning June 30, 2014. Under the final rule, Wells Fargo will
also be subject to enhanced compliance program requirements. Because we
continue to evaluate the final rule and assess its requirements, the ultimate
impact of the final Volcker Rule on our investment activities, including our
venture capital business, is uncertain.  

  The
Dodd-Frank Act also imposes changes on the ABS markets by requiring sponsors of
ABS to hold at least a 5% ownership stake in the ABS. Exemptions from the
requirement include qualified residential mortgages and FHA/VA loans. Federal
regulatory agencies have proposed rules to implement this credit risk retention
requirement, which have only included limited exemptions. If adopted as
written, the current proposal may impact our ability to issue certain ABS or
otherwise participate in various securitization transactions.  

  Money
market mutual fund reform is also currently being evaluated. The Financial
Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) released for public comment proposed recommendations
for new SEC regulations to address the perceived risks that money market mutual
funds may pose to the financial stability of the United States. These proposed
recommendations include implementation of floating net asset value
requirements, redemption holdback provisions, and capital buffer requirements
and would be in addition to regulatory changes with respect to money market
mutual funds made by the SEC in 2010. The FSOC   has not yet adopted     final recommendations. Following the FSOC s proposals, the SEC issued its own proposed
regulatory changes that would, among other things, require a floating net asset
value for prime institutional money market funds, or liquidity fees and
redemption gates during periods of stress for non-governmental money market
funds, or a combination of both measures.
The SEC has not
issued final regulations  .
Until final regulations are adopted, the ultimate effect on our business and
financial results remains uncertain.  

  Federal banking regulators also
continue to implement the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act addressing the risks
to the financial system posed by the failure of a systemically important
financial institution. Pursuant to rules adopted by the FRB and the FDIC, Wells
Fargo has prepared and filed a resolution plan, a so called  living will,  that
would facilitate our resolution in the event of material distress or failure.
If the FRB and FDIC determine that our plan is deficient, the Dodd-Frank Act
authorizes the FRB and FDIC to impose more stringent capital, leverage or
liquidity requirements on us or restrict our growth or activities until we
submit a plan remedying the deficiencies. If the FRB and FDIC ultimately
determine that we have been unable to remedy the deficiencies, they could order
us to divest assets or operations in order to facilitate our orderly resolution
in the event of our material distress or failure.  Our national bank
subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., is also required to prepare and submit a
resolution plan to the FDIC under separate regulatory authority.  

  The Dodd-Frank Act also
establishes an orderly liquidation process which allows for the appointment of
the FDIC as a receiver of a systemically important financial institution that
is in default or in danger of default. The FDIC has issued rules to implement
its orderly liquidation authority and recently released a notice regarding a
proposed resolution strategy, known as  single point of entry,  designed to
resolve a large financial institution in a manner that would, among other
things, impose losses on shareholders and creditors in accordance with
statutory priorities, without imposing a cost on U.S. taxpayers. 
Implementation of the strategy would require that institutions maintain a
sufficient amount of available equity and unsecured debt to absorb losses and
recapitalize operating subsidiaries.  

  Other future regulatory
initiatives that could significantly affect our business include proposals to
reform the housing finance market in the United States. These proposals, among
other things, consider winding down the GSEs and reducing or eliminating over
time the role of the GSEs in guaranteeing mortgages and providing funding for
mortgage loans, as well as the implementation of reforms relating to borrowers,
lenders, and investors in the mortgage market, including reducing the maximum
size of a loan that the GSEs can guarantee, phasing in a minimum down payment
requirement for borrowers, improving underwriting standards, and increasing
accountability and transparency in the securitization process. Congress also
may consider the adoption of legislation to reform the mortgage financing
market in an effort to assist borrowers experiencing difficulty in making
mortgage payments or refinancing their mortgages. The extent and timing of any
regulatory reform or the adoption of any legislation regarding the GSEs and/or
the home mortgage market, as well as any effect on the Company s business and
financial results, are uncertain.  

  Any other future legislation
and/or regulation, if adopted, also could significantly change our regulatory
environment and increase our cost of doing business, limit the activities we
may pursue or affect the competitive   balance
among banks, savings associations, credit unions,      

118   

and
other financial   services companies, and   have a material
adverse effect on our financial results and condition.  

  For more information, refer to
the  Regulatory Reform  section in this Report and the  Regulation and
Supervision  section in our 2013 Form 10 K.  

Bank regulations,
including Basel capital and liquidity standards and FRB guidelines and rules,
may require higher capital and liquidity levels,
limiting our ability to pay common stock dividends, repurchase our common
stock, invest in our business or provide
loans to our customers   .       Federal
banking regulators continually monitor the capital position of banks and bank
holding companies. In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
(BCBS) finalized a set of international guidelines for determining regulatory
capital known as Basel III. These guidelines are designed to address many of
the weaknesses identified in the previous Basel standards and in the banking
sector as contributing to the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 by, among other
things, increasing minimum capital requirements, increasing the quality of
capital, increasing the risk coverage of the capital framework, increasing
liquidity buffers, and increasing standards for the supervisory review process
and public disclosure.   When fully phased in, the Basel III guidelines require
bank holding companies to maintain a minimum ratio of Common Equity Tier 1
(CET1) to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0%. The BCBS     has also proposed certain liquidity coverage and funding ratios.     The BCBS liquidity framework was initially proposed in 2010 and included
a liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) to measure the stock of high-quality liquid
assets to total net cash outflows over the next 30 calendar day period. The
BCBS recently published revisions to the LCR, including revisions to the
definitions of high quality liquid assets and net cash outflows. As originally
proposed, the LCR would be introduced on January 1, 2015, but the revisions
provided for phased-in implementation over a four year period beginning January
1, 2015, with full phase-in on January 1, 2019.  

  In June 2011, the BCBS     also proposed additional CET1 surcharge requirements for global
systemically important banks (G-SIBs) ranging from 1.0% to 3.5% depending on
the bank s systemic importance to be determined based on certain factors. This
new capital surcharge, which would be phased in beginning in January 2016 and
become fully effective on January 1, 2019, would be in addition to the Basel III
7.0% CET1 requirement proposed in December 2010. The Financial Stability Board
(FSB), in an updated list published in November 2013 based on year-end 2012
data, identified the Company as one of 29 G-SIBs and provisionally determined
that the Company s surcharge would be 1%. The FSB may revise the list of G-SIBs
and their required surcharges prior to implementation based on additional or
future data.  

  U.S. regulatory authorities have
been considering the BCBS capital guidelines and related proposals, and in July
2013, U.S. banking regulators approved final and interim final rules to
implement the Basel III capital guidelines for U.S. banks. These final capital
rules, among other things:      

implement in
the United States the Basel III regulatory capital reforms including those that
revise the definition of capital, increase minimum capital ratios, and
introduce a minimum CET1 ratio of 4.5% and a capital conservation buffer of
2.5% (for a total minimum CET 1 ratio of 7.0%) and a potential countercyclical
buffer of up to 2.5%, which would be imposed by regulators at their discretion
if it is determined that a period of excessive credit growth is contributing to
an increase in systemic risk;  

require
a Tier 1 capital to average total consolidated assets ratio of 4% and
introduce, for large and internationally active bank holding companies (BHCs),
a Tier 1 supplementary leverage ratio of 3% that incorporates off-balance sheet
exposures;  

revise  Basel
I  rules for calculating risk-weighted assets to enhance risk sensitivity under
a standardized approach;  

modify
the existing Basel II advanced approaches rules     for calculating
risk-weighted assets to implement Basel III;  

deduct
certain assets from CET1, such as deferred tax assets that could not be
realized through net operating loss carry-backs, significant investments in
non-consolidated financial entities, and mortgage servicing rights, to the
extent any one category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such items, in the
aggregate, exceed 15% of CET1;  

eliminate the
accumulated other comprehensive income or loss filter that applies under
risk-based capital rules over a five-year phase in period beginning in 2014;   and   

comply
with the Dodd-Frank Act provision prohibiting the reliance on external credit
ratings.  

The final capital rules became
effective for Wells Fargo in January 2014, with certain provisions subject to
phase-in periods. The final rules did not implement the capital surcharge
proposals for G-SIBs or the proposed Basel III liquidity standards. Federal  
  banking regulators     did issue a proposal that has not
yet been finalized that would enhance the supplementary leverage ratio
requirements provided in the final capital rules for large BHCs like Wells
Fargo and their insured depository institutions. The proposal would be
effective January 1, 2018 and would require covered BHCs to maintain a
supplementary leverage ratio of at least 5% to avoid restrictions on capital distributions
and discretionary bonus payments and require that its insured depository
institutions maintain a supplementary leverage ratio of 6% to be considered
well capitalized. Federal banking regulators have indicated additional changes
to the proposal could be made in light of changes to the Basel III leverage
framework recently finalized by the BCBS. Federal banking regulators have also
recently proposed rules implementing the Basel III LCR. The U.S. proposal to
implement the LCR was substantially similar to the LCR agreed to by the BCBS,
but differed in some respects that may be viewed as a stricter version of the
LCR, such as proposing a more aggressive phase-in period.  

  The FRB has indicated it is in
the process of considering new rules to implement the G-SIB capital surcharge,
to address the amount of equity and unsecured debt certain large BHCs must hold
in order to facilitate their orderly resolution, and to address risks related
to banking organizations that are substantially reliant on short-term wholesale
funding. The ultimate impact of all of these finalized and proposed or
contemplated rules on our capital and liquidity requirements will depend on
final rulemaking and regulatory interpretation of the rules as we, along with
our regulatory authorities, apply the final rules during the implementation
process.  

  As part of its obligation to
impose enhanced capital and risk-management standards on large financial firms
pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FRB issued a final capital plan rule that
became effective December 30, 2011. The final capital plan rule requires
top-tier BHCs, including the Company, to submit annual capital plans for review
and to obtain regulatory approval before making capital      

119   

Risk Factors                 (continued)              

distributions.
There can be no assurance that the FRB would respond favorably to the Company s
future capital plans  .   The
FRB has also finalized a number of regulations implementing     enhanced prudential requirements
for     large BHCs like
Wells Fargo regarding risk-based capital and leverage, risk and liquidity management,
and stress testing. The FRB has also proposed, but not yet finalized, remediation
requirements for large BHCs experiencing financial distress that would restrict
capital distributions upon the occurrence of capital, stress test, or risk and
liquidity management triggers  .   

  The   Basel standards and FRB regulatory capital   and
liquidity   requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we
utilize our capital, including common stock dividends and stock repurchases  ,
and may require us to increase our capital and/or liquidity. Any requirement
that we increase our regulatory capital, regulatory capital ratios or liquidity
could require us to liquidate assets or otherwise change our business and/or
investment plans, which may negatively affect our financial results.     Although not currently
anticipated,   the proposed Basel capital requirements and/or     our regulators may require us to
raise additional capital in the future. Issuing additional common stock may
dilute the ownership of existing stockholders.  

  For more information, refer to the
 Capital Management  and  Regulatory Reform  sections in this Report and the
 Regulation and Supervision  section of our 2013 Form 10-K.   

FRB
policies, including policies on interest rates, can significantly affect
business and economic conditions and our financial results and condition.         The
FRB regulates the supply of money in the United States. Its policies determine
in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we
earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest
income and net interest margin. The FRB s interest rate policies also can
materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt
securities and MSRs. In addition, its policies can affect our borrowers,
potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans.
Changes in FRB policies are beyond our control and can be hard to predict. As a
result of the FRB s concerns regarding, among other things, continued slow
economic growth, the FRB recently reaffirmed
that it intends to keep the target range for the federal funds rate near zero
until the unemployment rate falls to at least 6.5% and inflation expectations
remain within FRB targets. However, the FRB has indicated that it will consider
other factors, such as additional labor market and financial market conditions,
before deciding to increase the federal funds target rate. Although the amount
of monthly purchases has been tapered recently, the FRB also has continued its
purchases of U.S. government and mortgage-backed securities and may take
further actions in an effort to reduce or maintain low long-term interest rates.  
  As noted above, a declining
or low interest rate environment
and a flattening yield curve which may result from the FRB s actions could
negatively affect our net interest income and net interest margin as it may
result in us holding lower yielding loans and investment securities on our
balance sheet.   

Risks Related to CREDIT AND OUR MORTGAGE
BUSINESS   

As one of the largest lenders in the U.S., increased credit risk,
including as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions,     could
require us to increase our       provision for credit losses and     allowance
for credit losses       and could have a material adverse effect
on our results of operations and financial condition.       When we loan money or commit to
loan money we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not
repay their loans.   As one of the largest lenders in the U.S., the credit
performance of our loan portfolios significantly affects our financial results
and condition. As noted above, if the current economic environment were to
deteriorate, more of our customers may have difficulty in repaying their loans
or other obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and
provision for credit losses.   We reserve for credit losses by
establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this
allowance is based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan
portfolio (including unfunded credit commitments). The process for determining
the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition.
It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future,
including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the
ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might increase the allowance
because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices and
higher unemployment, or other factors. For example, the regulatory environment
or external factors, such as natural disasters, also can influence recognition
of credit losses in the portfolio and our allowance for credit losses.  

  Reflecting the continued improved
credit performance in our loan portfolios, our provision for credit losses was
$2.2 billion and $1.8 billion less than net charge-offs in 2013 and 2012,
respectively, which had a positive effect on our earnings. Given current
favorable conditions, we continue to expect future allowance releases, a  bsent      a
significant deterioration in the economy.  
While we believe that our allowance for credit losses was appropriate at
December 31, 2013, there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover
future credit losses, especially if housing and employment conditions worsen.
In the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be
required to build reserves in future periods,   which would reduce our   earnings  .   

  For more information, refer to
the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  and  Critical Accounting
Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses  sections in this Report.   

We may have more
credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent our loans are concentrated
by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or
collateral.       Our
credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated to
borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or to borrowers who as a
group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market
conditions. We experienced the effect of concentration risk in 2009 and 2010
when we incurred greater than expected losses in our residential real estate
loan portfolio due to a housing slowdown and greater than expected
deterioration in residential real estate values in many markets, including the
Central Valley California market and several Southern California metropolitan
statistical areas. As California is our largest banking state in terms of loans
and deposits, deterioration in real estate values and underlying economic
conditions in those markets or elsewhere in California could result in
materially higher credit losses. In addition, deterioration in macro-  economic
conditions     generally across the country
could result in materially higher credit losses,   including
for our residential real estate loan portfolio.     We may experience
higher delinquencies and higher loss rates as our consumer real estate secured
lines of credit reach their contractual end of draw      

120   

period
and begin to amortize. Additionally, we may experience higher delinquencies and
higher loss rates as borrowers in our consumer Pick-a-Pay portfolio reach their
recast trigger, particularly if interest rates increase significantly which may
cause more borrowers to experience a payment increase of more than 7.5% upon
recast.  

  We are currently the largest CRE lender
in the U.S.     A deterioration in economic conditions
that negatively affects the business performance of our CRE borrowers,
including increases in interest rates and/or declines in commercial property
values, could result in materially higher credit losses and have a material
adverse effect on our financial results and condition.      

  Challenging
economic conditions in Europe have increased our foreign credit risk. Although
our foreign loan exposure represented only approximately 6% of our total
consolidated outstanding loans and 3% of our total assets at
December 31, 2013, continued European economic difficulties could
indirectly have a material adverse effect on our credit performance and results
of operations and financial condition to the extent it negatively affects the
U.S. economy and/or our borrowers who have foreign operations.    

  For
more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management 
section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial
Statements in this Report.  

We may incur losses on
loans, securities and other acquired assets of Wachovia that are materially
greater than reflected in our fair value adjustments.       We accounted for the Wachovia
merger under the purchase method of accounting, recording the acquired assets
and liabilities of Wachovia at fair value. All PCI loans acquired in the merger
were recorded at fair value based on the present value of their expected cash
flows. We estimated cash flows using internal credit, interest rate and
prepayment risk models using assumptions about matters that are inherently
uncertain. We may not realize the estimated cash flows or fair value of these
loans. In addition, although the difference between the pre-merger carrying
value of the credit-impaired loans and their expected cash flows   the
 nonaccretable difference    is available to absorb future charge-offs, we may
be required to increase our allowance for credit losses and related provision
expense because of subsequent additional credit deterioration in these loans.   

  For
more information, refer to the  Critical Accounting Policies   Purchased
Credit-Impaired (PCI) Loans    and  Risk Management   Credit
Risk Management    sections in this Report.   

Our
mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter, including as
a result of changes in interest rates and the value of our MSRs and MHFS, and
we rely on the GSEs to purchase our conforming loans to reduce our credit risk
and provide liquidity to fund new mortgage loans.       We   were
the largest mortgage originator and residential mortgage servicer in the U.S.
as of December 31, 2013, and we earn r  evenue from fees we receive
for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. As a result of
our mortgage servicing business, w  e    have a sizeable portfolio of
MSRs. An MSR is the right to service a mortgage loan   collect principal,
interest and escrow amounts   for a fee. We acquire MSRs when we keep the
servicing rights after we sell or securitize the loans we have originated or
when we purchase the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by other
lenders. We initially measure and carry all our residential MSRs using the fair
value measurement method. Fair value is the present value of estimated future
net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including
assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Changes in
interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. When
interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage
loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases,
the fair value of our MSRs can decrease. Each quarter we evaluate the fair
value of our MSRs, and any decrease in fair value reduces earnings in the
period in which the decrease occurs. We also measure at fair value MHFS for
which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist. In
addition, we measure at fair value certain other interests we hold related to
residential loan sales and securitizations. Similar to other interest-bearing
securities, the value of these MHFS and other interests may be negatively
affected by changes in interest rates. For example, if market interest rates
increase relative to the yield on these MHFS and other interests, their fair
value may fall.  

  When rates rise, the demand for
mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan
originations. Under the same conditions, revenue from our MSRs can increase
through increases in fair value. When rates fall, mortgage originations usually
tend to increase and the value of our MSRs usually tends to decline, also with
some offsetting revenue effect. Even though they can act as a  natural hedge, 
the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative
effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential MSRs is
generally immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations
and the MSRs relating to the new loans would generally accrue over time. It is
also possible that, because of economic conditions and/or a weak or
deteriorating housing market, even if interest rates were to fall or remain
low, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage
originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the MSRs value caused
by the lower rates.  

  We typically use derivatives and
other instruments to hedge our mortgage banking interest rate risk. We may not
hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the risk.
Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant
monitoring, and is not a perfect science. We may use hedging instruments tied
to U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate
with the value or income being hedged. We could incur significant losses from
our hedging activities. There may be periods where we elect not to use
derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk.  

  We rely on GSEs to purchase
mortgage loans that meet their conforming loan requirements and on other
capital markets investors to purchase loans that do not meet those requirements
  referred to as  nonconforming  loans. During the past few years investor
demand for nonconforming loans has fallen,     thereby reducing the liquidity for those loans. In
response to the reduced liquidity in the capital markets, we may retain more
nonconforming loans. When we retain a loan not only do we forgo fee revenue and
keep the credit risk of the loan but we also do not receive any sale proceeds
that could be used to generate new loans. Continued lack of liquidity could
limit our ability to fund   and thus originate   new mortgage loans, reducing
the fees we earn from originating and servicing loans. In addition, we cannot
assure that GSEs will not materially limit their purchases of conforming loans,
including because of capital constraints, or change their criteria for
conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). Each of
the GSEs is currently in conservatorship, with its primary      

121   

Risk Factors                 (continued)              

regulator,
the Federal Housing Agency acting as conservator. We cannot predict if, when or
how the conservatorship will end, or any associated changes to the GSEs
business structure and operations that could result. As noted above, there are
various proposals   to
reform the housing finance market in the U.S., including the role of the GSEs
in the housing finance market. The extent and timing of any such regulatory
reform regarding the housing finance market and the GSEs, including whether the
GSEs will continue to exist in their current form, as well as any effect on the
Company s business and financial results, are uncertain.  

  For more information, refer to
the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management   Mortgage Banking Interest
Rate and Market Risk  and  Critical Accounting Policies  sections in this
Report.   

We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or
reimburse investors and others as a result of breaches in contractual
representations and warranties.       We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties,
including GSEs, SPEs that issue private label MBS, and other financial
institutions that purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label
securitization. We may also pool FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed mortgage loans
which back securities guaranteed by GNMA. The agreements under which we sell
mortgage loans and the insurance or guaranty agreements with the FHA and VA
contain various representations and warranties regarding the origination and characteristics
of the mortgage loans, including ownership of the loan, compliance with loan
criteria set forth in the applicable agreement, validity of the lien securing
the loan, absence of delinquent taxes or liens against the property securing
the loan, and compliance with applicable origination laws. We may be required
to repurchase mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or
insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit
losses incurred on loans in the event of a breach of contractual
representations or warranties that is not remedied within a period (usually
90 days or less) after we receive notice of the breach. Contracts for
mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and
penalties that could be applied to inadequate responses to repurchase requests.
Similarly, the agreements under which we sell mortgage loans require us to
deliver various documents to the securitization trust or investor, and we may
be obligated to repurchase any mortgage loan as to which the required documents
are not delivered or are defective. We may negotiate global settlements in
order to resolve a pipeline of demands in lieu of repurchasing the loans. We
establish a mortgage repurchase liability related to the various
representations and warranties that reflect management s estimate of losses for
loans which we have a repurchase obligation. Our mortgage repurchase liability
represents management s best estimate of the probable loss that we may expect to
incur for the representations and warranties in the contractual provisions of
our sales of mortgage loans. Because the level of mortgage loan repurchase
losses depends upon economic factors, investor demand strategies and other
external conditions that may change over the life of the underlying loans, the
level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is difficult to
estimate and requires considerable management judgment. As a result of the
uncertainty in the various estimates underlying the mortgage repurchase
liability, there is a range of losses in excess of the recorded mortgage
repurchase liability that are reasonably possible. The estimate of the range of
possible loss for representations and warranties does not represent a probable
loss, and is based on currently available information, significant judgment,
and a number of assumptions that are subject to change. If economic conditions
and the housing market do not continue to improve or future investor repurchase
demand and our success at appealing repurchase requests differ from past
experience, we could continue to have increased repurchase obligations and
increased loss severity on repurchases, requiring material additions to the
repurchase liability.  

  For more information, refer to the  Risk
Management   Credit Risk Management   Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase
Losses  section   in this Report  .   

We may be terminated as a servicer or master servicer,
be required to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse investors for credit
losses on a mortgage loan, or incur costs, liabilities    ,
fines and other sanctions     if we fail to satisfy our servicing
obligations, including our obligations with respect to mortgage loan
foreclosure actions.       We
act as servicer and/or master servicer for mortgage loans included in
securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. As a
servicer or master servicer for those loans we have certain contractual
obligations to the securitization trusts, investors or other third parties,
including, in our capacity as a servicer, foreclosing on defaulted mortgage
loans or, to the extent consistent with the applicable securitization or other
investor agreement, considering alternatives to foreclosure such as loan
modifications or short sales and, in our capacity as a master servicer,
overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the servicer. If we commit a
material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be
subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of
time following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization
trustee or a specified percentage of security holders, causing us to lose
servicing income. In addition, we may be required to indemnify the
securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as a servicer or
master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or any act or omission on
our part that involves wilful misfeasance, bad faith or gross negligence. For
certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually
obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit
losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to
the loan. If we have increased repurchase obligations because of claims that we
did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or increased
loss severity on such repurchases, we may have a significant reduction to net
servicing income within mortgage banking noninterest income.  

  We may incur costs if we are required to, or
if we elect to, re-execute or re-file documents or take other action in our
capacity as a servicer in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. We
may incur litigation costs if the validity of a foreclosure action is
challenged by a borrower. If a court were to overturn a foreclosure because of
errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process, we may have liability to the
borrower and/or to any title insurer of the property sold in foreclosure if the
required process was not followed. These costs and liabilities may not be
legally or otherwise reimbursable to us, particularly to the extent they relate
to securitized mortgage loans. In addition, if certain documents required for a
foreclosure action are missing or defective, we could be obligated to cure the
defect or repurchase the loan. We may incur liability to securitization
investors relating to delays or deficiencies in our processing of mortgage
assignments or other documents necessary to comply with state law      

122   

governing foreclosures. The fair value of our MSRs may be
negatively affected to the extent our servicing costs increase because of
higher foreclosure costs. We may be subject to fines and other sanctions
imposed by Federal or state regulators as a result of actual or perceived deficiencies
in our foreclosure practices or in the foreclosure practices of other mortgage
loan servicers. Any of these actions may harm our reputation or negatively
affect our residential mortgage origination or servicing business. In April
2011,   we entered into consent orders with the OCC and the FRB following a joint
interagency horizontal examination of foreclosure processing at large mortgage
servicers, including the Company. These orders incorporate remedial
requirements for identified deficiencies and require the Company to, among
other things, take certain actions with respect to our mortgage servicing and
foreclosure operations, including submitting various action plans to ensure
that our mortgage servicing and foreclosure operations comply with legal requirements,
regulatory guidance and the consent orders. As noted above, any increase in our
servicing costs from changes in our foreclosure and other servicing practices,
including resulting from the consent orders, negatively affects the fair value
of our MSRs.  

  On February 9, 2012, a federal/state
settlement was announced among the DOJ, HUD, the Department of the Treasury,
the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the
Executive Office of the U.S. Trustee, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
a task force of Attorneys General representing 49 states, Wells Fargo, and four
other servicers related to investigations of mortgage industry servicing and
foreclosure practices. While Oklahoma did not participate in the larger
settlement, it settled separately with the five servicers under a simplified
agreement. Under the terms of the larger settlement, which will remain in
effect for three and a half years (subject to a trailing review period) we have
agreed to the following programmatic commitments, consisting of three
components totaling approximately $5.3 billion:  

Consumer Relief Program
commitment of $3.4 billion  

Refinance Program
commitment of $900 million  

Foreclosure Assistance
Program of $1 billion  

Additionally and simultaneously, the OCC and
FRB announced the imposition of civil money penalties of $83 million and
$87 million, respectively, pursuant to the Consent Orders. While still subject
to FRB confirmation, we believe the civil money obligations were satisfied through
payments made under the Foreclosure Assistance Program to the federal
government and participating states for their use to address the impact of
foreclosure challenges as they determine and which may include direct payments
to consumers.  

  As part of the settlement, the Company was released from
claims and allegations relating to servicing, modification and foreclosure
practices; however, the settlement does not release the Company from any claims
arising out of securitization activities, including representations made to
investors respecting mortgage-backed securities; criminal claims; repurchase
demands from the GSEs; and inquiries into MERS, among other items. Any
investigations or litigation relating to any of the Company s mortgage
servicing and foreclosure practices that are not covered or released by the
settlement could result in
material fines, penalties, equitable remedies, or other enforcement actions.  

  For more information, refer to the  Risk
Management   Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  and    Risks
Relating to Servicing Activities,  and  Critical Accounting Policies  
Valuation of Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights  sections   and
  Note 14 (Guarantees, Pledged
Assets and Collateral)     and
Note 15 (Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in this Report  .    

Financial difficulties
or credit downgrades of mortgage and bond insurers may negatively affect our
servicing and investment portfolios.         Our servicing portfolio includes
certain mortgage loans that carry some level of insurance from one or more
mortgage insurance companies. To the extent that any of these companies
experience financial difficulties or credit downgrades, we may be required, as
servicer of the insured loan on behalf of the investor, to obtain replacement
coverage with another provider, possibly at a higher cost than the coverage we
would replace. We may be responsible for some or all of the incremental cost of
the new coverage for certain loans depending on the terms of our servicing
agreement with the investor and other circumstances  , although we do not have an
additional risk of repurchase loss associated with claim amounts for loans sold
to third-party investors  .
Similarly, some of the mortgage loans we hold for investment or for sale carry
mortgage insurance. If a mortgage insurer is unable to meet its credit
obligations with respect to an insured loan, we might incur higher credit
losses if replacement coverage is not obtained.   For example, in October 2011,
PMI Mortgage Insurance Co. (PMI), one of our providers of mortgage insurance,
was seized by its regulator. We previously utilized PMI to provide mortgage
insurance on certain loans originated and held in our portfolio and on loans
originated and sold to third-party investors. We also hold a small amount of
residential MBS, which are backed by mortgages with a limited amount of
insurance provided by PMI. PMI has announced that it will pay 50% of insurance
claim amounts in cash with the rest deferred. Although we do not expect PMI s
situation to have a material adverse effect on our financial results because of
the limited amount of loans and securities held in our portfolios with PMI
insurance support, we cannot be certain that any such future events involving
one of our other mortgage insurance company providers will not materially
adversely affect our mortgage business and/or financial results.   We also have investments in
municipal bonds that are guaranteed against loss by bond insurers. The value of
these bonds and the payment of principal and interest on them may be negatively
affected by financial difficulties or credit downgrades experienced by the bond
insurers.  

  For more information, refer to
the  Earnings Performance   Balance Sheet Analysis   Investment Securities  and
 Risk Management   Credit Risk Management    Liability for Mortgage Loan
Repurchase Losses   
sections in this Report.  

OPERATIONAL AND LEGAL RISK    

A
failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure,
or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a
result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure
or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation,
increase our costs and cause losses.       As
a large financial institution that serves over 70     million customers through over
9,000 locations, 12,000 ATMs, the Internet and other distribution channels
across the U.S. and internationally, we depend
on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer
transactions on a continuous basis. As our customer base and locations have
expanded throughout      

123   

Risk Factors                 (continued)              

the U.S. and internationally, and
as customer, public, legislative and regulatory expectations regarding
operational and information security have increased, our operational systems
and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential
failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting, data
processing systems or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating
properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors
including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example,
there could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume; electrical or
telecommunications outages; degradation or loss of public internet domain;
climate change related impacts and natural disasters such as earthquakes,
tornados, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or
larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as
described below, cyber attacks. Although we have business continuity plans and
other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by
significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or
operating systems that support our businesses and customers.  

  Information security risks for
large financial institutions such as Wells Fargo have generally increased in
recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use
of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial
transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized
crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties, including
foreign state-sponsored parties. Those parties also may attempt to fraudulently
induce employees, customers, or other users of our systems to disclose
confidential information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers.
As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and
storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. Our
banking, brokerage, investment advisory, and capital markets businesses rely on
our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to
conduct their operations. In addition, to access our products and services, our
customers may use personal smartphones, tablet PC s, and other mobile devices
that are beyond our control systems. Although we believe we have robust
information security procedures and controls, our technologies, systems,
networks, and our customers  devices may become the target of cyber attacks or
information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release,
gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of Wells Fargo s or our
customers  confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise
disrupt Wells Fargo s or its customers  or other third parties  business
operations.     For example, various retailers have recently
reported they were victims of cyber attacks in which large amounts of their
customers  data, including debit and credit card information, was obtained. In
these situations we generally incur costs to replace compromised cards and
address fraudulent transaction activity affecting our customers.  

  Third parties with which we do
business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges,
clearing houses, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or
security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and
information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their
own systems or capacity constraints.  

  To date we have not experienced
any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security
breaches, but there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in
the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because
of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the prominent
size and scale of Wells Fargo and its role in the financial services industry,
our plans to continue to implement our Internet banking and mobile banking
channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to
serve our customers when and how they want to be served, our expanded
geographic footprint and international presence, the outsourcing of some of our
business operations, and the current global economic and political environment.
For example, Wells Fargo and reportedly other financial institutions continue
to be the target of various evolving and adaptive denial-of-service or other
cyber attacks as part of what appears to be a coordinated effort to disrupt the
operations of financial institutions and potentially test their cybersecurity     capabilities.
As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our
controls, processes and systems designed to protect our networks, computers,
software and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority
for Wells Fargo. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to
expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our
protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security
vulnerabilities.  

  Disruptions or failures in the
physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and
customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or
devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result
in customer attrition, financial losses, the inability of our customers to
transact business with us, violations of applicable privacy and other laws,
regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement
or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which
could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.  

Our
framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss
to us.       Our risk
management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established
processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and
analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk,
credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and
compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk
management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management
strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not
appropriately anticipated or identified.   In certain instances, we rely on
models to measure, monitor and predict risks, such as market and interest rate
risks, however there is no assurance that these models will appropriately
capture all relevant risks or accurately predict future events or exposures.   The recent financial and credit crisis
and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of the
limitations of managing unanticipated risks, and our regulators   remain focused on ensuring that
financial institutions build and maintain robust risk management policies  .      If our risk management framework
proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses which could materially
adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.  

We may incur fines,
penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly
even inadvertent or unintentional violations.         We maintain systems and procedures
designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations.
However, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for      

124   

the
imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the
noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there was in
place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. For
example, we are subject to regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets
Control (OFAC) that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the
transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries
and designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose penalties for
inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in
place to prevent the violations. There may be other negative consequences
resulting from a finding of noncompliance, including restrictions on certain
activities. Such a finding may also damage our reputation as described below
and could restrict the ability of institutional investment managers to invest
in our securities.  

  Under the Iran Threat Reduction
and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, we are required to make certain disclosures
in our periodic reports filed with the SEC relating to certain activities that
we or our worldwide affiliates knowingly engaged in involving Iran during the
quarterly period covered by the report. If we or an affiliate were to engage in
a reportable transaction, we must also file a separate notice regarding the
activity with the SEC, which the SEC will make publicly available on its
website. The SEC will be required to forward the report to the President, the
Senate Committees on Foreign Relations and Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs,
and the House of Representatives Committees on Foreign Affairs and Financial
Services. The President will then be required to initiate an investigation into
the reported activity and within 180 days make a determination as to whether to
impose sanctions on us. The scope of the reporting requirement is broad and
covers any domestic or foreign entity or person that may be deemed to be an
affiliate of ours. The potential sanctions and reputational harm for engaging
in a reportable activity may be significant.  

Negative
publicity, including as a result of protests, could damage our reputation and
business.       Reputation
risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public
opinion, is inherent in our business   and has increased substantially
because of the financial crisis and our size and profile in the financial
services industry. The reputation of the financial services industry in general
has been damaged as a result of the financial crisis and other matters affecting
the financial services industry, and negative public opinion about the
financial services industry generally or Wells Fargo specifically   could
adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers. Negative public
opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of
activities, including mortgage lending practices,   servicing
and foreclosure activities,   corporate governance, regulatory
compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate
protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government
regulators and community or other organizations in response to that conduct.       Because
we conduct most of our businesses under the  Wells Fargo  brand, negative
public opinion about one business could affect our other businesses  
and also could negatively affect our  cross-sell  strategy  . The
proliferation of social media websites utilized by Wells Fargo and other third
parties, as well as the personal use of social media by our team members and
others, including personal blogs and social network profiles, also may increase
the risk that negative, inappropriate or unauthorized information may be posted
or released publicly that could harm our reputation or have other negative
consequences, including as a result of our team members interacting with our
customers in an unauthorized manner in various social media outlets.  

  As a result of the financial
crisis, Wells Fargo and other financial institutions have been targeted from
time to time by protests and demonstrations, which have included disrupting the
operation of our retail banking stores and have resulted in negative public
commentary about financial institutions, including the fees charged for various
products and services. There can be no assurance that continued protests and
negative publicity for the Company or large financial institutions generally
will not harm our reputation and adversely affect our business and financial
results.  

Risks
Relating to Legal Proceedings.       Wells
Fargo and some of its subsidiaries are involved in judicial, regulatory and
arbitration proceedings or investigations concerning matters arising from our
business activities. Although we believe we have a meritorious defense in all
material significant litigation pending against us, there can be no assurance
as to the ultimate outcome. We establish reserves for legal claims when
payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be
reasonably estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we
have not established a reserve. In addition, the actual cost of resolving a
legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that
matter. The ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding, depending on the
remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of
operations and financial condition.   

  For
more information, refer to Note 15 (Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in
this Report.    

RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY S COMPETITIVE
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT    

We
face significant and increasing competition in the rapidly evolving financial
services industry.         We
compete with other financial institutions in a highly competitive industry that
is undergoing significant changes as a result of financial regulatory reform
and increased public scrutiny stemming from the financial crisis and continued
challenging economic conditions. Wells Fargo generally competes on the basis of
the quality of our customer service, the wide variety of products and services
that we can offer our customers and the ability of those products and services
to satisfy our customers  needs, the pricing of our products and services, the
extensive distribution channels available for our customers, our innovation,
and our reputation. Continued and increased competition in any one or all of
these areas may negatively affect our market share and results of operations
and/or cause us to increase our capital investment in our businesses in order
to remain competitive. Given the current economic, regulatory, and political
environment for large financial institutions such as Wells Fargo, and possible
public backlash to bank fees, there is increased competitive pressure to
provide products and services at current or lower prices. Consequently, our
ability to reposition or reprice our products and services from time to time
may be limited and could be influenced significantly by the actions of our
competitors who may or may not charge similar fees for their products and
services. Any changes in the types of products and services that we offer our
customers and/or the pricing for those products and services could      

125   

Risk Factors                 (continued)              

result in a loss of customers and market share and could
materially adversely affect our results of operations.  

  Continued technological advances
and the growth of e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository
institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking
products, and for financial institutions and other companies to provide
electronic and internet-based financial solutions, including electronic payment
solutions. We may not respond effectively to these competitive threats from
existing and new competitors and may be forced to increase our investment in
our business to modify or adapt our existing products and services or develop
new products and services to respond to our customers  needs.   

Our
     cross-selling  efforts to increase the number of products our customers
buy from us and offer them all of the financial products that fulfill their
needs is a key part of our growth strategy, and our failure to execute this
strategy effectively could have a material adverse effect on our revenue growth
and financial results.              Selling more products to our
customers    cross-selling    is very important to our business model and key
to our ability to grow revenue and earnings   especially during the current
environment of slow economic growth and regulatory reform initiatives.     Many of our competitors also
focus on cross-selling, especially in retail banking and mortgage lending. This
can limit our ability to sell more products to our customers or influence us to
sell our products at lower prices, reducing our net interest income and revenue
from our fee-based products. It could also affect our ability to keep existing
customers. New technologies could require us to spend more to modify or adapt
our products to attract and retain customers.   Our cross-sell strategy also is
dependent on earning more business from our Wachovia customers, and i  ncreasing
our cross-sell ratio   or the average number of products sold to existing
customers   may become more challenging and we might not attain our goal of
selling an average of eight products to each customer.   

Our
ability to attract and retain qualified team members is critical to the success
of our business and failure to do so could adversely affect our business
performance, competitive position and future prospects.       The success of Wells Fargo is
heavily dependent on the talents and efforts of our team members, and in many
areas of our business, including the commercial banking, brokerage, investment
advisory, and capital markets businesses, the competition for highly qualified
personnel is intense. In order to attract and retain highly qualified team
members, we must provide competitive compensation. As a large financial
institution we may be subject to limitations on compensation by our regulators
that may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain these qualified
team members. Some of our competitors may not be subject to these same
compensation limitations, which may further negatively affect our ability to
attract and retain highly qualified team members.  

RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS   

Changes in accounting
policies or accounting standards, and changes in how accounting standards are
interpreted or applied, could materially affect how we report our financial
results and condition.         Our accounting policies are fundamental
to determining and understanding our financial results and condition. As
described below, some of these policies require use of estimates and
assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and
financial results. Any changes in our accounting policies could materially
affect our financial statements.  

  From
time to time the FASB and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting
standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. In
addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting
standards (such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and our outside auditors)
may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how
these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and
reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our
control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how we report our
financial results and condition. We may be required to apply a new or revised
standard retroactively or apply an existing standard differently, also
retroactively, in each case potentially resulting in our restating prior period
financial statements in material amounts.  

Our financial
statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates which, if wrong,
could cause unexpected losses in the future, and our financial statements
depend on our internal controls over financial reporting.         Pursuant
to U.S. GAAP, we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing
our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves,
reserves for mortgage repurchases, reserves related to litigation and the fair
value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. Several of our
accounting policies are critical because they require management to make
difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently
uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be
reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. For a
description of these policies, refer to the  Critical Accounting Policies 
section in this Report. If assumptions or estimates underlying our financial
statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses.   

  Certain
of our financial instruments, including trading assets and liabilities,
investment securities, certain loans, MSRs, private equity investments,
structured notes and certain repurchase and resale agreements, among other
items, require a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our
financial statements. Where quoted market prices are not available, we may make
fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means
which ultimately rely to some degree on management judgment,   and there is no
assurance that our models will capture or appropriately reflect all relevant
inputs required to accurately determine fair value  . Some of these and other assets
and liabilities may have no direct observable price levels, making their
valuation particularly subjective, being based on significant estimation and
judgment. In addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of
certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain
balance sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations
will be subject to further change or adjustment and could lead to declines in
our earnings.  

  The
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) requires our management to evaluate
the Company s disclosure controls and procedures and its internal control over
financial reporting and requires our auditors to issue a report on our internal
control over financial reporting. We are required to disclose, in our annual
report on Form 10-K, the existence of any  material weaknesses  in our internal
controls. We cannot assure that we will not identify one or more material
weaknesses as of the end of any given quarter or year, nor can we predict the
effect on our stock price of disclosure of a material      

126   

weakness.
Sarbanes-Oxley also limits the types of non-audit services our outside auditors
may provide to us in order to preserve their independence from us. If our
auditors were found not to be  independent  of us under SEC rules, we could be
required to engage new auditors and re-file financial statements and audit
reports with the SEC. We could be out of compliance with SEC rules until new
financial statements and audit reports were filed, limiting our ability to
raise capital and resulting in other adverse consequences.   

RISKS
RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS   

Acquisitions could
reduce our stock price upon announcement and reduce our earnings if we overpay
or have difficulty integrating them.         We regularly explore
opportunities to acquire companies in the financial services industry. We
cannot predict the frequency, size or timing of our acquisitions, and we
typically do not comment publicly on a possible acquisition until we have
signed a definitive agreement. When we do announce an acquisition, our stock
price may fall depending on the size of the acquisition, the type of business
to be acquired, the purchase price, and the potential dilution to existing
stockholders or our earnings per share if we issue common stock in connection
with the acquisition.  

  We generally must receive federal
regulatory approvals before we can acquire a bank, bank holding company or
certain other financial services businesses depending on the size of the
financial services business to be acquired. In deciding whether to approve a
proposed acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other
factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition   and the risk to the stability of
the U.S. banking or financial system  ,
our financial condition and future prospects including current and projected
capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of
management and record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience
and needs of the communities to be served, including our record of compliance
under the Community Reinvestment Act, and our effectiveness in combating money
laundering. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and concerns regarding the large
size of financial institutions such as Wells Fargo, the regulatory process for
approving acquisitions has become more complex   and regulatory approvals may be
more difficult to obtain  .
We cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required
regulatory approvals will be granted. We might be required to sell banks,
branches and/or business units or assets or issue additional equity as a
condition to receiving regulatory approval for an acquisition.   In addition, federal
bank regulations prohibit FRB regulatory approval of any transaction that would
create an institution holding more than 10% of total U.S. insured deposits, or
of any transaction (whether or not subject to FRB approval) that would create a
financial company with more than 10% of the liabilities of all financial
companies in the U.S. As
of September     30, 2013, we believe we already
held more than 10% of total U.S. insured deposits. As a result, our size may
limit our bank acquisition opportunities in the future.  

  Difficulty in integrating an
acquired company may cause us not to realize expected revenue increases, cost
savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and other projected
benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than
expected deposit attrition, loss of key team members, disruption of our
business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise harm our ability
to retain customers and team members or achieve the anticipated benefits of the
acquisition. Time and resources spent on integration may also impair our
ability to grow our existing businesses. Also, the negative effect of any
divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business
combinations may be greater than expected. Many of the foregoing risks may be
increased if the acquired company operates internationally or in a geographic
location where we do not already have significant business operations and/or
team members.   

*   *   *  

Any factor described
in this Report or in any of our other SEC filings could by itself, or together
with other factors, adversely affect our financial results and condition. Refer
to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC in 2014 for material
changes to the above discussion of risk factors. There are factors not
discussed above or elsewhere in this Report that could adversely affect our
financial results and condition.  

Controls and Procedures   

Disclosure
Controls and Procedures                                                                                                                          

  The
Company s management evaluated the effectiveness, as of December 31, 2013, of
the Company s disclosure controls and procedures. The Company s chief executive
officer and chief financial officer participated in the evaluation. Based on
this evaluation, the Company s chief executive officer and chief financial
officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were
effective as of December 31, 2013.  

Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting                                                                                                                       

  Internal control over financial reporting is defined
in Rule 13a-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a
process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company s principal
executive and principal financial officers and effected by the Company s Board,
management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP) and includes those policies and procedures that:  

pertain to
the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of assets of the Company;  

127   

provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that receipts
and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and  

provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.  

  Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate. No change occurred during any quarter in     2013 that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal
control over financial reporting. Management s report on internal control over
financial reporting is set forth below and should be read with these limitations
in mind.  

Management s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

  The
Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting for the Company. Management assessed
the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2013, using the criteria set forth by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in    Internal
Control   Integrated Framework (1992)   . Based on this assessment, management
concluded that as of December 31, 2013, the Company s internal control over
financial reporting was effective.  

  KPMG LLP, the independent
registered public accounting firm that audited the Company s financial statements
included in this Annual Report, issued an audit report on the Company s
internal control over financial reporting. KPMG s audit report appears on the
following page.  

128   

Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm   

The
Board of Directors and Stockholders  

  Wells Fargo
  Company:  

We
have audited Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries  (the Company)
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on
criteria established in    Internal Control         Integrated Framework
(1992)    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control
over financial reporting based on our audit.  

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

In
our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on
criteria established in    Internal Control         Integrated Framework
(1992)      issued by
COSO.  

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of
the Company as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated
statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows
for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2013, and our
report dated February 26, 2014, expressed an unqualified opinion on
those consolidated financial statements.  

/s/
KPMG LLP                                

San
Francisco, California  

  February 26, 2014  

129   

(1)      Total other-than-temporary
impairment (OTTI) losses  
  (gains)      were $39 million, $3
million and $349 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
Of total OTTI, losses of $158 million, $240 million and $423 million were
recognized in earnings, and gains of $(119) million, $(237) million and $(74)
million were recognized as non-credit-related OTTI in other comprehensive
income for the year ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.      

  (2)      Includes OTTI losses
of $186 million, $176 million and $288 million for the year     ended December     31, 2013, 2012 and 2011,
respectively.  

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.  

130   

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.  

131   

(1)      Parenthetical amounts
represent assets and liabilities for which we have elected the fair value
option.  

  (2)      Our consolidated
assets at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, include the following assets
of certain variable interest entities (VIEs) that can only be used to settle
the liabilities of those VIEs: Cash and due from banks, $165 million and $260
million; Trading assets, $162 million and $114 million; Investment Securities,
$1.4 billion and $2.8 billion; Mortgages held for sale, $38 million and $469
million; Net loans, $6.0  
  billion
and $10.6 billion; Other assets, $347 million and $457 million, and Total assets,
$8.1 billion and $14.6 billion, respectively.  

  (3)      Our consolidated
liabilities at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, include the following
VIE liabilities for which the VIE creditors do not have recourse to Wells
Fargo: Short-term borrowings, $29 million     and $0 million; Accrued expenses and other
liabilities, $90  
  million
and $134 million; Long-term debt, $2.3 billion and $3.5 billion; and Total
liabilities, $2.4  
  billion
and $3.6 billion, respectively.  

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.  

132   

(1)      For the
year ended December 31, 2012, includes $200 million related to a private
forward repurchase transaction entered into in fourth quarter 2012 that settled
in first quarter 2013 for 6 million shares of common stock. For the year ended
December 31, 2011, includes $150 million related to a private forward
repurchase transaction entered into in fourth quarter 2011 that settled in
first quarter 2012 for 6 million shares of common stock.   

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.  

(continued
on following pages)   

133   

134   

(1)      For the year
ended December 31, 2013, includes $500 million related to a private forward
repurchase transaction entered into in fourth quarter 2013 that is expected to
settle in first quarter 2014 for an estimated 11 million shares of common
stock. See Note 1 for additional information.  

The
accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.  

135   

136   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
statements. See Note 1 for noncash activities.  

137   

See the Glossary of Acronyms at the end of this
Report for terms used throughout the Financial Statements and related Notes.   

Note 1:              Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies                                                                                                      

Wells Fargo
  Company is a diversified financial services company. We provide banking,
insurance, trust and investments, mortgage banking, investment banking, retail
banking, brokerage, and consumer and commercial finance through banking stores,
the internet and other distribution channels to consumers, businesses and
institutions in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and in foreign
countries. When we refer to  Wells Fargo,   the Company,   we,   our  or
 us,  we mean Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries (consolidated).
Wells Fargo   Company (the Parent) is a financial holding company and
a bank holding company.  

  Our accounting and reporting
policies conform with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and
practices in the financial services industry. To prepare the financial
statements in conformity with GAAP, management must make estimates based on
assumptions about future economic and market conditions (for example,
unemployment, market liquidity, real estate prices, etc.) that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and income and expenses during the reporting period and the related
disclosures. Although our estimates contemplate current conditions and how we
expect them to change in the future, it is reasonably possible that actual
conditions could be worse than anticipated in those estimates, which could
materially affect our results of operations and financial condition.   Management has made significant
estimates in several areas, including allowance for credit losses and purchased
credit-impaired (PCI) loans (Note 6), valuations of residential mortgage
servicing rights (MSRs) (Notes 8 and 9) and financial instruments (Note 17),
liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses (Note 9) and income taxes (Note 21).
Actual results could differ from those estimates.  

Accounting
Standards Adopted in 2013   

  In first quarter 2013, we adopted the following new
accounting guidance:   

Accounting Standards Update (ASU or
Update) 2011-11,    Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities   ;   

ASU 2013-01,    Clarifying the Scope of Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities   ; and  

ASU 2013-02,      Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income   .   

ASU 2011-11    expands the disclosure requirements for certain
financial instruments and derivatives that are subject to enforceable master
netting agreements or similar arrangements. The disclosures are required
regardless of whether the instruments have been offset (or netted) in the balance
sheet. Under ASU 2011-11, companies must describe the nature of offsetting
arrangements and provide quantitative information about those agreements,
including the gross and net amounts of financial instruments that are
recognized on the balance sheet.     In
January 2013, the FASB issued    ASU 2013-01   , which clarifies the scope of
ASU 2011-11 by limiting the disclosures to derivatives, repurchase agreements,
and securities lending transactions to the extent they are subject to an
enforceable master netting or similar arrangement.     We adopted this guidance in first quarter 2013 with
retrospective application. These Updates did not affect our consolidated
financial results since they amend only the disclosure requirements for
offsetting financial instruments. See Notes 14 and 16 for the new disclosures.  

ASU 2013-02    requires
companies to disclose the effect on net income line items from significant
amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) and
entirely into net income. If reclassifications are partially or entirely
capitalized on the balance sheet, then companies must provide a cross-reference
to disclosures that provide information about the effect of the
reclassifications. We adopted this guidance in first quarter 2013 with
retrospective application. This Update did not affect our consolidated
financial results as it amends only the disclosure requirements for accumulated
other comprehensive income. See Note 23 for expanded disclosures on reclassification
adjustments.  

In third quarter 2013, we adopted the following new
accounting guidance:   

ASU 2013-10,    Derivatives and Hedging (Topic
815):     Inclusion of the
Fed Funds Effective Swap Rate (or Overnight Index Swap Rate) as a Benchmark
Interest Rate for Hedge Accounting Purposes   

ASU 2013-10    permits the Fed Funds Effective
Swap Rate (Overnight Index Swap Rate) to be used as a U.S. benchmark interest
rate for hedge accounting purposes, in addition to LIBOR and U.S. Treasury. The
Update also removes the restriction on using different benchmark rates for
similar hedges. Our adoption of this guidance with prospective application did
not affect our consolidated financial statements.      

Consolidation   

  Our
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Parent and our
majority-owned subsidiaries and variable interest entities (VIEs) (defined
below) in which we are the primary beneficiary. Significant intercompany
accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. When we have
significant influence over operating and financing decisions for a company but
do not own a majority of the voting equity interests, we account for the
investment using the equity method of accounting (we recognize a proportionate
share of the company s earnings)  .      If we   do not have significant
influence,   we recognize
the investment at cost except for (1) marketable equity securities, which we recognize
at fair value with changes in fair value included in OCI, and (2) nonmarketable
equity investments for which we have elected the fair value option. Investments
accounted for under the equity or cost method are included in other assets.  

  We are a variable interest holder
in certain special-purpose entities (SPEs) in which equity investors do not
have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or where the
entity does not have enough equity at risk to finance its activities without
additional subordinated financial support from other parties (referred to as
VIEs). Our variable interest arises from contractual, ownership or other
monetary interests in the entity, which change with fluctuations in the fair
value of the      

138   

entity's net assets. We consolidate a
VIE if we are the primary beneficiary, defined as the party that has both the
power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE and a
variable interest that could potentially be significant to the VIE. To
determine whether or not a variable interest we hold could potentially be
significant to the VIE, we consider both qualitative and quantitative factors
regarding the nature, size and form of our involvement with the VIE. We assess
whether or not we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE on an on-going basis.  

Cash and Due From Banks   

  Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash
items in transit, and amounts due from the Federal Reserve Bank and other
depository institutions.   

Trading
Assets   

  Trading
assets are primarily securities, including corporate debt, U.S. government agency
obligations and other securities that we acquire for short-term appreciation or
other trading purposes, and the fair value of derivatives primarily held for
customer accommodation purposes or   risk mitigation and hedging  . Interest-only strips and other
retained interests in securitizations that can be contractually prepaid or
otherwise settled in a way that the holder would not recover substantially all
of its recorded investment are classified as trading assets. Trading assets are
carried at fair value, with interest and dividend income recorded in interest
income and realized and unrealized gains and losses recorded in noninterest
income. Periodic cash settlements on derivatives and other trading assets are
recorded in noninterest income.  

Investments   

   available-for-sale         SECURITIES          Debt securities that we might not
hold until maturity and marketable equity securities are classified as
available-for-sale securities and reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and
losses, after applicable income taxes, are reported in cumulative OCI.   

  We conduct other-than-temporary
impairment (OTTI) analysis on a quarterly basis or more often if a potential
loss-triggering event occurs. The initial indicator of OTTI for both debt and
equity securities is a decline in fair market value below the amount recorded
for an investment and the severity and duration of the decline.  

  For a debt security for which
there has been a decline in the fair value below amortized cost basis, we
recognize OTTI if we (1) have the intent to sell the security, (2) it is more
likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery
of its amortized cost basis, or (3) we do not expect to recover the entire
amortized cost basis of the security.  

  Estimating recovery of the
amortized cost basis of a debt security is based upon an assessment of the cash
flows expected to be collected. If the present value of cash flows expected to
be collected, discounted at the security s effective yield,     is less than amortized cost, OTTI
is considered to have occurred. In performing an assessment of the cash flows
expected to be collected, we consider all relevant information including:  

the length of
time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than the amortized
cost basis;  

the
historical and implied volatility of the fair value of the security;  

the cause of
the price decline, such as the general level of interest rates or adverse
conditions specifically related to the security, an industry or a geographic
area;  

the issuer's
financial condition, near-term prospects and ability to service the debt;  

the payment
structure of the debt security and the likelihood of the issuer being able to
make payments that increase in the future;  

for
asset-backed securities, the credit performance of the underlying collateral,
including delinquency rates, level of non-performing assets, cumulative losses
to date, collateral value and the remaining credit enhancement compared with
expected credit losses;   

any change in
rating agencies' credit ratings at evaluation date from acquisition date and
any likely imminent action;   

independent
analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings and other independent
market data; and   

recoveries or
additional declines in fair value subsequent to the balance sheet date.  

If we intend to sell the
security, or if it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the
security before recovery, an OTTI write-down is recognized in earnings equal to
the entire difference between the amortized cost basis and fair value of the
security. For debt securities that are considered other-than-temporarily
impaired that we do not intend to sell or it is more likely than not that we
will not be required to sell before recovery, the OTTI write-down is separated
into an amount representing the credit loss, which is recognized in earnings,
and the amount related to all other factors, which is recognized in OCI. The
measurement of the credit loss component is equal to the difference between the
debt security's amortized cost basis and the present value of its expected
future cash flows discounted at the security's effective yield.   The remaining
difference between the security s fair value and the present value of future
expected cash flows is due to factors that are not credit-related and,
therefore, is recognized in OCI. We believe that we will fully collect the
carrying value of securities on which we have recorded a non-credit-related
impairment in OCI.  

  We hold investments in perpetual
preferred securities (PPS) that are structured in equity form, but have many of
the characteristics of debt instruments, including periodic cash flows in the
form of dividends, call features, ratings that are similar to debt securities
and pricing like long-term callable bonds.  

  Because of the hybrid nature of
these securities, we evaluate PPS for OTTI using a model similar to the model
we use for debt securities as described above. Among the factors we consider in
our evaluation of PPS are whether there is any evidence of deterioration in the
credit of the issuer as indicated by a decline in cash flows or a rating agency
downgrade to below investment grade and the estimated recovery period.
Additionally, in determining if there was evidence of credit deterioration, we
evaluate: (1) the severity of decline in market value below cost, (2) the
period of time for which the decline in fair value has existed, and (3) the
financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, including any
specific events which may influence the operations of the issuer. We consider
PPS to be other-than-temporarily impaired if cash flows expected to be
collected are insufficient to recover our investment or if we no longer believe
the security will recover within the estimated recovery period.   OTTI write-downs of
PPS are recognized in earnings equal to the difference between the cost      

139   

Note 1:                 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies        (continued)              

basis and fair value of the security. Based upon the
factors considered in our OTTI evaluation, we believe our investments in PPS
currently rated investment grade will be fully realized and, accordingly, have
not recognized OTTI on such securities.  

  For marketable equity securities
other than PPS, OTTI evaluations focus on whether evidence exists that supports
recovery of the unrealized loss within a timeframe consistent with temporary
impairment. This evaluation considers the severity of and length of time fair
value is below cost, our intent and ability to hold the security until
forecasted recovery of the fair value of the security, and the investee's
financial condition, capital strength, and near-term prospects.  

  The securities portfolio is an
integral part of our asset/liability management process. We manage these
investments to provide liquidity, manage interest rate risk and maximize portfolio
yield within capital risk limits approved by management and the Board of
Directors and monitored by the Corporate Asset/Liability Management Committee
(Corporate ALCO). We recognize realized gains and losses on the sale of these
securities in noninterest income using the specific identification method.  

  Unamortized premiums and
discounts are recognized in interest income over the contractual life of the
security using the interest method. As principal repayments are received on
securities (i.e., primarily mortgage-backed securities (MBS)) a proportionate
amount of the related premium or discount is recognized in income so that the
effective interest rate on the remaining portion of the security continues
unchanged.  

Held-To-Maturity         SECURITIES             Debt
securities for which the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold to
maturity are reported at historical cost adjusted for amortization of premiums
and accretion of discounts.
We recognize OTTI when there is a decline in fair market value and we do not
expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. The amortized cost is
written-down to fair value with the credit loss component recorded to earnings
and the remaining component recognized in OCI. The OTTI assessment related to
whether we expect recovery of the amortized cost basis and determination of any
credit loss component recognized in earnings for held-to-maturity securities is
the same as described for available-for-sale securities. Security transfers to
the held-to-maturity classification are accounted for at fair value. Unrealized
gains or losses from the transfer of available for sale securities continue to
be reported in cumulative OCI and are amortized into earnings over the
remaining life of the security using the effective interest method.  

Nonmarketable
equity INVESTMENTS         Nonmarketable equity investments include low income
housing tax credit investments, equity securities that are not publicly traded
and securities acquired for various purposes, such as to meet regulatory
requirements (for example, Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank
(FHLB) stock). We elected the fair value option for certain of these
investments. The rest of these investments are accounted for under the cost or
equity method. All nonmarketable equity investments are included in other
assets. We review those assets accounted for under the cost or equity method at
least quarterly for possible OTTI. Our review typically includes an analysis of
the facts and circumstances of each investment, the expectations for the
investment's cash flows and capital needs, the viability of its business model
and our exit strategy. We reduce the asset value when we consider declines in
value to be other than temporary. We recognize the estimated loss as a loss
from equity investments in noninterest income.   

Securities
Purchased and Sold Agreements   

  Securities
purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under repurchase
agreements are accounted for as collateralized financing transactions and are
recorded at the acquisition or sale price plus accrued interest. It is our
policy to take possession of securities purchased under resale agreements,
which are primarily U.S. Government and Government agency securities. We
monitor the market value of securities purchased and sold, and obtain
collateral from or return it to counterparties when appropriate. These
financing transactions do not create material credit risk given the collateral
provided and the related monitoring process.  

Mortgages
and Loans Held for Sale   

  Mortgages
held for sale (MHFS) include commercial and residential mortgages originated
for sale and securitization in the secondary market, which is our principal
market, or for sale as whole loans. We elect the fair value option for substantially
all residential MHFS (see Note 17). The remaining residential MHFS are held at
the lower of cost or market value (LOCOM), and are valued on an aggregate
portfolio basis. Commercial MHFS are held at LOCOM and are valued on an
individual loan basis.  

  Loans held for sale (LHFS) are
carried at LOCOM or at fair value. Generally, consumer loans are valued on an
aggregate portfolio basis, and commercial loans are valued on an individual
loan basis.  

  Gains and losses on MHFS are
recorded in mortgage banking noninterest income.   Gains and losses on LHFS are recorded in other
noninterest income. Direct loan origination costs and fees   for MHFS and LHFS
under the fair value option are recognized in income at origination. For MHFS
and LHFS recorded at LOCOM, loan costs and fees   are deferred at origination and are recognized in
income at time of sale.   Interest
income on MHFS and LHFS is calculated based upon the note rate of the loan and
is recorded to interest income.  

  Our lines of business are
authorized to originate held-for-investment loans that meet or exceed
established loan product profitability criteria, including minimum positive net
interest margin spreads in excess of funding costs. When a determination is
made at the time of commitment to originate loans as held for investment, it is
our intent to hold these loans to maturity or for the  foreseeable future, 
subject to periodic review under our corporate asset/liability management
process. In determining the  foreseeable future  for these loans, management considers
(1) the current economic environment and market conditions, (2) our business
strategy and current business plans, (3) the nature and type of the loan
receivable, including its expected life, and (4) our current financial
condition and liquidity demands. Consistent with our core banking business of
managing the spread between the yield on our assets and the cost of our funds,
loans are periodically re-evaluated to determine if our minimum net interest
margin spreads continue to meet our profitability objectives. If subsequent
changes in interest rates significantly impact the ongoing profitability of
certain loan products, we may subsequently change our intent to hold these
loans, and we would take actions to sell such loans in response to the Corporate
ALCO directives to reposition our balance sheet because of the changes in
interest rates. These directives identify both the type of loans to be sold and
the weighted average coupon rate of such loans no longer meeting our ongoing
investment criteria. Upon      

140   

the issuance of such
directives, we immediately transfer these loans to the MHFS portfolio at LOCOM.  

Loans   

  Loans
are reported at their outstanding principal balances net of any unearned
income, cumulative charge-offs, unamortized deferred fees and costs on
originated loans and unamortized premiums or discounts on purchased loans. PCI
loans are reported net of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments. See
the  Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans  section in this Note for our accounting
policy for PCI loans.  

  Unearned income, deferred fees
and costs, and discounts and premiums are amortized to interest income over the
contractual life of the loan using the interest method.   Loan commitment fees
are generally deferred and amortized into noninterest income on a straight-line
basis over the commitment period.  

  Loans also include direct
financing leases that are recorded at the aggregate of minimum lease payments
receivable plus the estimated residual value of the leased property, less
unearned income. Leveraged leases, which are a form of direct financing leases,
are recorded net of related nonrecourse debt. Leasing income is recognized as a
constant percentage of outstanding lease financing balances over the lease
terms in interest income.  

Nonaccrual AND
PAST DUE loans         We generally place loans on nonaccrual status when:  

the full and timely collection of
interest or principal becomes uncertain (generally based on an assessment of
the borrower s financial condition and the adequacy of collateral, if any);   

they are 90 days (120 days with
respect to real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages) past due for
interest or principal, unless both well-secured and in the process of
collection;   

part of the principal balance has
been charged off (including loans discharged in bankruptcy);      

for
junior lien mortgages, we have evidence that the related first lien mortgage
may be 120 days past due or in the process of foreclosure regardless of the
junior lien delinquency status; or  

performing
consumer loans are discharged in bankruptcy, regardless of their delinquency
status.  

PCI loans are written down at
acquisition to fair value using an estimate of cash flows deemed to be
collectible. Accordingly, such loans are no longer classified as nonaccrual
even though they may be contractually past due because we expect to fully
collect the new carrying values of such loans (that is, the new cost basis
arising out of purchase accounting).  

  When
we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse the accrued unpaid interest
receivable against interest income and amortization of any net deferred fees is
suspended. If
the ultimate collectability of the recorded loan balance is in doubt on a
nonaccrual loan, the cost recovery method is used and cash collected is applied
to first reduce the carrying value of the loan. Otherwise, interest
income may be recognized to the extent cash is received. Generally, we return a
loan to accrual status when all delinquent interest and principal become
current under the terms of the loan agreement and collectability of remaining
principal and interest is no longer doubtful.  

  For modified loans, we
re-underwrite at the time of a restructuring to determine if there is
sufficient evidence of sustained repayment capacity based on the borrower s
financial strength, including documented income, debt to income ratios and
other factors. If the borrower has demonstrated performance under the previous
terms and the underwriting process shows the capacity to continue to perform
under the restructured terms, the loan will generally remain in accruing
status. When a loan classified as a troubled debt restructuring (TDR) performs
in accordance with its modified terms, the loan either continues to accrue
interest (for performing loans) or will return to accrual status after the
borrower demonstrates a sustained period of performance (generally six
consecutive months of payments, or equivalent, inclusive of consecutive
payments made prior to the modification). Loans will be placed on nonaccrual
status and a corresponding charge-off is recorded if we believe it is probable
that principal and interest contractually due under the modified terms of the
agreement will not be collectible.  

  Our loans are
considered past due when contractually required principal or interest payments
have not been made on the due dates.   

LOAN
CHARGE-OFF POLICIES       For commercial loans, we
generally fully charge off or charge down to net realizable value   (fair value of
collateral, less estimated costs to sell)   for
loans secured by collateral when:   

management
judges the loan to be uncollectible;  

repayment is
deemed to be protracted beyond reasonable time frames;  

the loan has
been classified as a loss by either our internal loan review process or our
banking regulatory agencies;  

the customer
has filed bankruptcy and the loss becomes evident owing to a lack of assets; or  

the loan is
180 days past due unless both well-secured and in the process of collection.   

For consumer loans, we fully
charge off or charge down to net realizable value when deemed uncollectible due
to bankruptcy discharge or other factors, or no later than reaching a defined
number of days past due,     as
follows:   

1-4 family first and junior lien
mortgages         We generally charge down to net realizable value
when the loan is 180 days past due.  

Auto loans       We generally fully charge off
when the loan is 120 days past due.  

Credit card loans       We generally fully charge off
when the loan is 180 days past due.  

Unsecured loans (closed end)       We generally fully charge off
when the loan is 120 days past due.  

Unsecured loans (open end)       We generally fully charge off
when the loan is 180 days past due.  

Other secured loans       We generally fully or partially
charge down to net realizable value when the loan is 120 days past due.  

Impaired loans     
   We
consider a loan to be impaired when, based on current information and events,
we determine that we will not be able to collect all amounts due according to
the loan contract, including scheduled interest payments. This evaluation is
generally based on delinquency information, an assessment of the borrower s
financial condition and the adequacy of collateral, if any. Our impaired loans
predominantly include loans on nonaccrual status for commercial and industrial,
commercial real estate (CRE), foreign loans and any loans modified in a TDR, on both
accrual and nonaccrual status.  

141   

Note 1:                 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies        (continued)              

When we identify a loan as impaired, we generally measure the impairment,
if any, based on the difference between the recorded investment in the loan
(net of previous charge-offs, deferred loan fees or costs and unamortized
premium or discount) and the present value of expected future cash flows,
discounted at the loan s effective interest rate. When the value of an impaired
loan is calculated by discounting expected cash flows, interest income is
recognized using the loan s effective interest rate over the remaining life of
the loan.     When collateral is the sole source of
repayment for the impaired loan, rather than the borrower s income or other
sources of repayment, we charge down to net realizable value.  

Troubled debt
restructurings         In situations where, for economic or legal
reasons related to a borrower s financial difficulties, we grant a concession
for other than an insignificant period of time to the borrower that we would
not otherwise consider, the related loan is classified as a TDR. These modified
terms may include rate reductions, principal forgiveness, term extensions,
payment forbearance and other actions intended to minimize our economic loss
and to avoid foreclosure or repossession of the collateral. For modifications
where we forgive principal, the entire amount of such principal forgiveness is
immediately charged off. Loans classified as TDRs, including loans in trial
payment periods (trial modifications), are considered impaired loans. Other
than resolutions such as foreclosures, sales and transfers to held-for- sale,
we may remove loans held for investment from TDR classification, but only if
they have been refinanced or restructured at market terms and qualify as a new
loan.  

Purchased
credit-impaired         loans      
   Loans acquired with evidence of
credit deterioration since their origination and where it is probable that we
will not collect all contractually required principal and interest payments are
PCI loans. PCI loans are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition, and
the historical allowance for credit losses related to these loans is not
carried over.   Some loans that
otherwise meet the definition as credit-impaired are specifically excluded from
the PCI loan portfolios, such as revolving loans where the borrower still has
revolving privileges.  

  Evidence of credit quality
deterioration as of the purchase date may include statistics such as past due
and nonaccrual status, commercial risk ratings, recent borrower credit scores
and recent loan-to-value percentages. Generally, acquired loans that meet our
definition for nonaccrual status are considered to be credit-impaired.  

  Substantially all commercial and
industrial, CRE and foreign PCI loans are accounted for as individual loans.
Conversely, consumer PCI loans have been aggregated into pools based on common
risk characteristics. Each pool is accounted for as a single asset with a
single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows.  

  Accounting for PCI loans
involves estimating fair value, at acquisition, using the principal and
interest cash flows expected to be collected discounted at the prevailing
market rate of interest. The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over
the carrying value (estimated fair value at acquisition date) is referred to as
the accretable yield and is recognized in interest income using an effective
yield method over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of loans, in
situations where there is a reasonable expectation about the timing and amount
of cash flows to be collected. The difference between contractually required
payments and the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition,
considering the impact of prepayments, is referred to as the nonaccretable
difference.  

  Subsequent to acquisition, we
regularly evaluate our estimates of cash flows expected to be collected. If we
have     p  robable decreases in cash flows   expected to be collected   (other than due to
decreases in interest rate indices and changes in prepayment assumptions), we
charge the provision for credit losses, resulting in an increase to the
allowance for loan losses. If we have probable and significant increases in
cash flows expected to be collected, we first reverse any previously
established allowance for loan losses and then increase interest income as a
prospective yield adjustment over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of
loans. Estimates of cash flows are impacted by changes in interest rate indices
for variable rate loans and prepayment assumptions, both of which are treated
as prospective yield adjustments included in interest income.  

  Resolutions of loans
may include sales of loans to third parties, receipt of payments in settlement
with the borrower, or foreclosure of the collateral. For individual PCI loans,
gains or losses on sales to third parties are included in noninterest income,
and gains or losses as a result of a settlement with the borrower are included
in interest income. Our policy is to remove an individual loan from a pool
based on comparing the amount received from its resolution with its contractual
amount. Any difference between these amounts is absorbed by the nonaccretable
difference for the entire pool. This removal method assumes that the amount
received from resolution approximates pool performance expectations. The
remaining accretable yield balance is unaffected and any material change in
remaining effective yield caused by this removal method is addressed by our
quarterly cash flow evaluation process for each pool. For loans that are
resolved by payment in full, there is no release of the nonaccretable
difference for the pool because there is no difference between the amount
received at resolution and the contractual amount of the loan. Modified PCI
loans are not removed from a pool even if those loans would otherwise be deemed
TDRs. Modified PCI loans that are accounted for individually are considered
TDRs, and removed from PCI accounting if there has been a concession granted in
excess of the original nonaccretable difference. We include these TDRs in our
impaired loans.  

FORECLOSED
ASSETS     F  oreclosed   
assets obtained through our lending activities primarily include real estate.     Generally, loans have been written down to their net
realizable value prior to foreclosure. Any further reduction to their net
realizable value is recorded with a charge to the allowance for credit losses
at foreclosure. We allow up to 90 days after foreclosure to finalize
determination of net realizable value. Thereafter, changes in net realizable
value are recorded to noninterest expense. The net realizable value of these
assets is reviewed and updated periodically depending on the type of property.  

Allowance
for Credit Losses (ACL)         The allowance for credit losses is
management s estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio, including
unfunded credit commitments, at the balance sheet date. We have an established
process to determine the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses
that assesses the losses inherent in our portfolio and related unfunded credit
commitments. While we attribute portions of the allowance to our respective
commercial and consumer portfolio segments, the entire allowance is available
to absorb credit losses inherent in the total loan portfolio and unfunded
credit commitments.  

142   

Our process
involves procedures to appropriately consider the unique risk characteristics
of our commercial and consumer loan portfolio segments. For each portfolio
segment, losses are estimated collectively for groups of loans with similar
characteristics, individually or pooled for impaired loans or, for PCI loans,
based on the changes in cash flows expected to be collected.  

  Our allowance levels are influenced by loan
volumes, loan grade migration or delinquency status, historic loss experience
influencing loss factors, and other conditions influencing loss expectations,
such as economic conditions.   

Commercial Portfolio Segment
ACL Methodology              Generally,
commercial loans are assessed for estimated losses by grading each loan using
various risk factors as identified through periodic reviews. We apply historic
grade-specific loss factors to the aggregation of each funded grade pool. These
historic loss factors are also used to estimate losses for unfunded credit
commitments. In the development of our statistically derived loan grade loss
factors, we observe historical losses over a relevant period for each loan
grade. These loss estimates are adjusted as appropriate based on additional
analysis of long-term average loss experience compared to previously forecasted
losses, external loss data or other risks identified from current economic
conditions and credit quality trends.  

  The allowance also includes an amount for
the estimated impairment on nonaccrual commercial loans and commercial loans
modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual status.  

Consumer Portfolio Segment ACL
Methodology       For
consumer loans that are not identified as a TDR, we determine the allowance
predominantly on a collective basis utilizing forecasted losses to represent
our best estimate of inherent loss. We pool loans, generally by product types
with similar risk characteristics, such as residential real estate mortgages and
credit cards. As appropriate and to achieve greater accuracy, we may further
stratify selected portfolios by sub-product, origination channel, vintage, loss
type, geographic location and other predictive characteristics. Models designed
for each pool are utilized to develop the loss estimates. We use assumptions
for these pools in our forecast models, such as historic delinquency and
default, loss severity, home price trends, unemployment trends, and other key
economic variables that may influence the frequency and severity of losses in
the pool.  

  In determining the appropriate allowance
attributable to our residential mortgage portfolio, we take into consideration
portfolios determined to be at elevated risk, such as junior lien mortgages
behind delinquent first lien mortgages and junior lien lines of credit subject
to near term significant payment increases. We incorporate the default rates
and high severity of loss for these higher risk portfolios,     including the impact of our established loan
modification programs. When modifications occur or are probable to occur, our
allowance considers the impact of these modifications, taking into
consideration the associated credit cost, including re-defaults of modified
loans and projected loss severity. Accordingly, the loss content associated
with the effects of existing and probable loan modifications and higher risk
portfolios has been captured in our allowance methodology.  

  We separately estimate impairment for consumer
loans that have been modified in a TDR (including trial modifications), whether
on accrual or nonaccrual status.  

OTHER ACL MATTERS       The allowance for
credit losses for both portfolio segments includes an amount for imprecision or
uncertainty that may change from period to period. This amount represents
management s judgment of risks inherent in the processes and assumptions used
in establishing the allowance. This imprecision considers economic
environmental factors, modeling assumptions and performance, process risk, and
other subjective factors, including industry trends     and risk assessments
for our commitments to regulatory and government agencies regarding settlements
of mortgage foreclosure-related matters.  

Securitizations
and Beneficial Interests   

  In
certain asset securitization transactions that meet the applicable criteria to
be accounted for as a sale, assets are sold to an entity referred to as an SPE,
which then issues beneficial interests in the form of senior and subordinated
interests collateralized by the assets. In some cases, we may retain beneficial
interests issued by the entity. Additionally, from time to time, we may also
re-securitize certain assets in a new securitization transaction.  

  The assets and liabilities
transferred to an SPE are excluded from our consolidated balance sheet if the
transfer qualifies as a sale and we are not required to consolidate the SPE.  

  For transfers of financial assets
recorded as sales, we recognize and initially measure at fair value all assets
obtained (including beneficial interests) and liabilities incurred. We record a
gain or loss in noninterest income for the difference between the carrying
amount and the fair value of the assets sold. Fair values are based on quoted
market prices, quoted market prices for similar assets, or if market prices are
not available, then the fair value is estimated using discounted cash flow
analyses with assumptions for credit losses, prepayments and discount rates
that are corroborated by and verified against market observable data, where
possible. Retained interests and liabilities incurred from securitizations with
off-balance sheet entities, including SPEs and VIEs, where we are not the
primary beneficiary, are classified as investment securities, trading account
assets, loans, MSRs or other liabilities (including liabilities for mortgage
repurchase losses) and are accounted for as described herein.  

Mortgage
Servicing Rights (MSRs)   

  We
recognize the rights to service mortgage loans for others, or MSRs, as assets
whether we purchase the MSRs or the MSRs result from a sale or securitization
of loans we originate (asset transfers). We initially record all of our MSRs at
fair value. Subsequently, residential loan MSRs are carried at fair value. All
of our MSRs related to our commercial mortgage loans are subsequently measured
at LOCOM.  

  We base the fair value of MSRs on
the present value of estimated future net servicing income cash flows. We
estimate future net servicing income cash flows with assumptions that     market participants would use to
estimate fair value, including estimates of     prepayment speeds   (which are influenced by changes
in mortgage interest rates and borrower behavior, including estimates for
borrower default  ),
discount rates, cost to service (including delinquency and foreclosure costs),
escrow account earnings, contractual servicing fee income, ancillary income and
   late    fees. Our valuation approach is
validated by our internal valuation model validation group, and our valuation
estimates are benchmarked to third party appraisals on a quarterly basis.  

  Changes in the fair value of MSRs
occur primarily due to the collection/realization of expected cash flows, as
well as changes in      

143   

Note 1:                 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies        (continued)              

valuation inputs and assumptions.   For MSRs carried at fair value,
changes in fair value are reported in noninterest income in the period in which
the change occurs. MSRs subsequently measured at LOCOM are amortized in
proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net servicing income. The
amortization of MSRs is reported in noninterest income, analyzed monthly and
adjusted to reflect changes in prepayment speeds, as well as other factors.  

  MSRs accounted for at LOCOM are
periodically evaluated for impairment based on the fair value of those assets.
For purposes of impairment evaluation and measurement, we stratify MSRs based
on the predominant risk characteristics of the underlying loans, including
investor and product type. If, by individual stratum, the carrying amount of
these MSRs exceeds fair value, a valuation reserve is established. The
valuation reserve is adjusted as the fair value changes.  

Premises
and Equipment   

  Premises
and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and
amortization. Capital leases, where we are the lessee, are included in premises
and equipment at the capitalized amount less accumulated amortization.  

  We primarily use the
straight-line method of depreciation and amortization. Estimated useful lives
range up to 40 years for buildings, up to 10 years for furniture and equipment,
and the shorter of the estimated useful life (up to 8 years)     or the lease term for leasehold
improvements. We amortize capitalized leased assets on a straight-line basis
over the lives of the respective leases.  

Goodwill
and Identifiable Intangible Assets   

  Goodwill
is recorded in business combinations under the purchase method of accounting
when the purchase price is higher than the fair value of net assets, including
identifiable intangible assets.  

  We assess goodwill for impairment
at a reporting unit level on an annual basis or more frequently in certain
circumstances. We have determined that our reporting units are one level below
the operating segments. We have the option of performing a qualitative
assessment of goodwill. We may also elect to bypass the qualitative test and
proceed directly to a quantitative test.     We    initially perform a
qualitative assessment of goodwill to test for impairment. If, based on our
qualitative review, we conclude that more likely than not a reporting unit s
fair value is less than its carrying amount, then we complete quantitative
steps as described below to determine if there is goodwill impairment. If we
conclude that a reporting unit s fair value is not less than its carrying
amount, quantitative tests are not required.   We assess goodwill for impairment on a reporting
unit level and apply various quantitative valuation methodologies when required
to compare the estimated fair value to the carrying value of each reporting
unit. Valuation methodologies include discounted cash flow and earnings
multiple approaches. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount, an
additional test is required to measure the amount of impairment. We recognize impairment
losses as a charge to noninterest expense (unless related to discontinued
operations) and an adjustment to the carrying value of the goodwill asset.
Subsequent reversals of goodwill impairment are prohibited.  

  We amortize core deposit and
other customer relationship intangibles on an accelerated basis over useful
lives not exceeding 10 years. We review such intangibles for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying
amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment is indicated if the sum of
undiscounted estimated future net cash flows is less than the carrying value of
the asset. Impairment is permanently recognized by writing down the asset to
the extent that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value.   

Operating
Lease Assets   

  Operating
lease rental income for leased assets is recognized in other income on a
straight-line basis over the lease term. Related depreciation expense is
recorded on a straight-line basis over the   estimated useful life,
considering the estimated residual value of the leased asset. The useful life
may be adjusted to the term of the lease depending on our plans for the asset
after the lease term.   On
a periodic basis, leased assets are reviewed for impairment. Impairment loss is
recognized if the carrying amount of leased assets exceeds fair value and is
not recoverable. The carrying amount of leased assets is not recoverable if it
exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the
lease payments and the estimated residual value upon the eventual disposition
of the equipment.   

Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses   

  We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties,
including (1) government-sponsored entities (GSEs) Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation (FHLMC) and Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) who
include the mortgage loans in GSE-guaranteed mortgage securitizations, (2) SPEs
that issue private label MBS, and (3) other financial institutions that
purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. In
addition, we pool Federal Housing Administration (FHA)-insured and Department
of Veterans Affairs (VA)-guaranteed mortgage loans, which back securities
guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA).  

  We may be required to repurchase mortgage
loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse
the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred on
loans (collectively  repurchase ) in the event of a breach of specified
contractual representations or warranties that are not remedied within a period
(usually 90 days or less) after we receive notice of the breach.   Our loan sale contracts to private investors (non-GSE)
typically contain an additional provision where   we would only be
required to repurchase securitized loans if a breach is deemed to have a
material and adverse effect on the value of the mortgage loan or to the
investors or interests of security holders in the mortgage loan.  

  We establish a mortgage repurchase
liability, initially at fair value, related to various representations and
warranties that reflect management s estimate of losses for loans for which we
could have a repurchase obligation, whether or not we currently service those
loans, based on a combination of factors. Such factors include default
expectations, expected investor repurchase demands (influenced by current and
expected mortgage loan file requests and mortgage insurance rescission notices,
as well as estimated levels of origination defects) and appeals success rates
(where the investor rescinds the demand based on a cure of the defect or
acknowledges that the loan satisfies the investor s applicable representations
and warranties), reimbursement by correspondent and other third party
originators, and projected loss severity. We continually update our mortgage
repurchase liability estimate during the life of the loans. Although activity
can vary by investor, investors may demand repurchase at any time and there is
often a lag from the date of default to the time we receive a repurchase
demand. The majority of repurchase demands are on loans that default in the
first 24 to 36 months following origination of the mortgage loan.  

144   

The liability
for mortgage loan repurchase losses is included in other liabilities. For
additional information on our repurchase liability, see Note 9.   

Pension
Accounting   

  We account for our defined benefit pension plans using
an actuarial model. Two principal assumptions     in determining net periodic pension cost are the
discount rate and the expected long term rate of return on plan assets.  

  A discount rate is used to estimate the
present value of our future pension benefit obligations. We use a consistent
methodology to determine the discount rate based upon the yields on multiple portfolios
of bonds with maturity dates that closely match the estimated timing and
amounts of the expected benefit payments for our plans. Such portfolios are
derived from a broad-based universe of high quality corporate bonds as of the
measurement date.  

  Our determination of the reasonableness of
our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is highly quantitative by
nature. We evaluate the current asset allocations and expected returns under
two sets of conditions: projected returns using several forward-looking capital
market assumptions, and historical returns for the main asset classes dating
back to 1970 or the earliest period for which historical data was readily
available for the asset classes included. Using long term historical data
allows us to capture multiple economic environments, which we believe is relevant
when using historical returns. We place greater emphasis on the forward-looking
return and risk assumptions than on historical results. We use the resulting
projections to derive a base line expected rate of return and risk level for
the Cash Balance Plan s prescribed asset mix. We evaluate the portfolio based
on: (1) the established target asset allocations over short term (one-year) and
longer term (ten-year) investment horizons, and (2) the range of potential
outcomes over these horizons within specific standard deviations. We perform
the above analyses to assess the reasonableness of our expected long-term rate
of return on plan assets. We consider the expected rate of return to be a
long-term average view of expected returns. The use of an expected long term
rate of return on plan assets may cause us to recognize pension income returns
that are greater or less than the actual returns of plan assets in any given
year. Differences between expected and actual returns in each year, if any, are
included in our net actuarial gain or loss amount, which is recognized in OCI.
We generally amortize net actuarial gain or loss in excess of a 5% corridor
from accumulated OCI into net periodic pension cost over the estimated average
remaining participation period,     which
at December 31, 2013, is 16 years. See Note 20 for additional information on
our pension accounting.  

Income
Taxes   

  We
file consolidated and separate company federal income tax returns, foreign tax
returns and various combined and separate company state tax returns.  

  We evaluate two components of
income tax expense: current and deferred. Current income tax expense represents
our estimated taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period and includes
income tax expense related to our uncertain tax positions. We determine
deferred income taxes using the balance sheet method. Under this method, the
net deferred tax asset or liability is based on the tax effects of the
differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and
recognizes enacted changes in tax rates and laws in the period in which they
occur. Deferred income tax expense results from changes in deferred tax assets
and liabilities between periods. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to
management's judgment that realization is  more likely than not.  Uncertain tax
positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold are measured
to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain tax position
is measured at the largest amount of benefit that management believes has a
greater than 50% likelihood of realization upon settlement.   Tax benefits not
meeting our realization criteria represent unrecognized tax benefits.   Foreign taxes paid are generally
applied as credits to reduce federal income taxes payable. We account for
interest and penalties as a component of income tax expense.  

Stock-Based Compensation   

  We
have stock-based employee compensation plans as more fully discussed in Note
19.   Our Long-Term Incentive
Compensation Plan provides for awards of incentive and nonqualified stock
options, stock appreciation rights, restricted shares, restricted share rights
(RSRs), performance share awards (PSAs) and stock awards without restrictions. For
most awards, we measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for
an award of equity instruments, such as stock options, RSRs or PSAs, based on
the fair value of the award on the grant date. The cost is normally recognized
in our income statement over the vesting period of the award; awards with
graded vesting are expensed on a straight line method. Awards that continue to
vest after retirement are expensed over the shorter of the period of time
between the grant date and the final vesting period or between the grant date
and when a team member becomes retirement eligible; awards to team members who
are retirement eligible at the grant date are subject to immediate expensing
upon grant.  

  In 2013, certain RSRs and all PSAs granted
include discretionary performance based vesting conditions and are subject to
variable accounting. For these awards, the associated compensation expense
fluctuates with changes in our stock price.     For PSAs, compensation expense also fluctuates based on
the estimated outcome of meeting the performance conditions  .   

Earnings
Per Common Share   

  We
compute earnings per common share by dividing net income (after deducting
dividends on preferred stock) by the average number of common shares
outstanding during the year. We compute diluted earnings per common share by
dividing net income (after deducting dividends and related accretion on
preferred stock) by the average number of common shares outstanding during the
year, plus the effect of common stock equivalents (for example, stock options,
restricted share rights, convertible debentures and warrants) that are
dilutive.  

Fair
Value of Financial Instruments   

  We
use fair value measurements in our fair value disclosures and to record certain
assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis, such as trading assets,
or on a nonrecurring basis such as measuring impairment on assets carried at
amortized cost.  

Determination of Fair Value              We base our fair
values on the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer
a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date. These
fair value measurements are based on exit prices and determined by maximizing
the use of observable inputs. However, for certain instruments we must utilize
unobservable inputs      

145   

Note 1:                 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies        (continued)              

in determining fair value due to
the lack of observable inputs in the market, which requires greater judgment in
measuring fair value.  

  In instances where
there is limited or no observable market data, fair value measurements for
assets and liabilities are based primarily upon our own estimates or
combination of our own estimates and third-party vendor or broker pricing, and
the measurements are often calculated based on current pricing for products we
offer or issue, the economic and competitive environment, the characteristics
of the asset or liability and other such factors. As with any valuation
technique used to estimate fair value, changes in underlying assumptions used,
including discount rates and estimates of future cash flows, could
significantly affect the results of current or future values. Accordingly,
these fair value estimates may not be realized in an actual sale or immediate
settlement of the asset or liability.  

  We incorporate lack of
liquidity into our fair value measurement based on the type of asset or
liability measured and the valuation methodology used. For example, for certain
residential MHFS and certain securities where the significant inputs have
become unobservable due to illiquid markets and vendor or broker pricing is not
used, we use a discounted cash flow technique to measure fair value. This
technique incorporates forecasting of expected cash flows (adjusted for credit
loss assumptions and estimated prepayment speeds) discounted at an appropriate
market discount rate to reflect the lack of liquidity in the market that a
market participant would consider. For other securities where vendor or broker
pricing is used, we use either unadjusted broker quotes or vendor prices or
vendor or broker prices adjusted by weighting them with internal discounted
cash flow techniques to measure fair value. These unadjusted vendor or broker
prices inherently reflect any lack of liquidity in the market, as the fair
value measurement represents an exit price from a market participant viewpoint.  

  Where markets are
inactive and transactions are not orderly, transaction or quoted prices for
assets or liabilities in inactive markets may require adjustment due to the
uncertainty of whether the underlying transactions are orderly. For items that
use price quotes in inactive markets, we analyze the degree of market
inactivity and distressed transactions to determine the appropriate adjustment
to the price quotes.  

  We continually assess
the level and volume of market activity in our investment security classes in
determining adjustments, if any, to price quotes. Given market conditions can
change over time, our determination of which securities markets are considered
active or inactive can change. If we determine a market to be inactive, the
degree to which price quotes require adjustment, can also change. See Note 17
for discussion of the fair value hierarchy and valuation methodologies applied
to financial instruments to determine fair value.      

Derivatives
and Hedging Activities   

  We
recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. On the date we
enter into a derivative contract, we designate the derivative as (1) a hedge of
the fair value of a recognized asset or liability, including hedges of foreign
currency exposure ( fair value hedge ), (2) a hedge of a forecasted transaction
or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a
recognized asset or liability ( cash flow hedge ), or (3) held for trading,
customer accommodation or asset/liability risk management purposes, including
economic hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting. For a fair value hedge, we
record changes in the fair value of the derivative and, to the extent that it
is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability
attributable to the hedged risk, in current period earnings in the same
financial statement category as the hedged item. For a cash flow hedge, we
record changes in the fair value of the derivative to the extent that it is
effective in OCI, with any ineffectiveness recorded in current period earnings.
We subsequently reclassify these changes in fair value to net income in the
same period(s) that the hedged transaction affects net income in the same
financial statement category as the hedged item. For free-standing derivatives,
we report changes in the fair values in current period noninterest income.  

  For fair value and cash flow
hedges qualifying for hedge accounting, we formally document at inception the
relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, our risk management
objective, strategy and our evaluation of effectiveness for our hedge
transactions. This includes linking all derivatives designated as fair value or
cash flow hedges to specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to
specific forecasted transactions. Periodically, as required, we also formally
assess whether the derivative we designated in each hedging relationship is
expected to be and has been highly effective in offsetting changes in fair
values or cash flows of the hedged item using the regression analysis method
or, in limited cases, the dollar offset method.  

  We discontinue hedge accounting
prospectively when (1) a derivative is no longer highly effective in offsetting
changes in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item, (2) a derivative
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, (3) we elect to discontinue the
designation of a derivative as a hedge, or (4) in a cash flow hedge, a
derivative is de-designated because it is not probable that a forecasted
transaction will occur.  

  When we discontinue fair value
hedge accounting, we no longer adjust the previously hedged asset or liability
for changes in fair value, and cumulative adjustments to the hedged item are
accounted for in the same manner as other components of the carrying amount of
the asset or liability. If the derivative continues to be held after fair value
hedge accounting ceases, we carry the derivative on the balance sheet at its
fair value with changes in fair value included in earnings.   

  When we discontinue cash flow hedge
accounting and it is not probable that the forecasted transaction will not occur,
the accumulated amount reported in OCI at the de-designation date continues to
be reported in OCI until the forecasted transaction affects earnings. If cash
flow hedge accounting is discontinued and it is probable the forecasted
transaction will not occur, the accumulated amount reported in OCI at the
de-designation date is immediately recognized in earnings. If the derivative
continues to be held after cash flow hedge accounting ceases, we carry the
derivative on the balance sheet at its fair value with future changes in fair
value included in earnings.  

  We occasionally purchase or
originate financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative. At
inception of the financial instrument, we assess (1) if the economic
characteristics of the embedded derivative are not clearly and closely related
to the economic characteristics of the financial instrument (host contract),
(2) if the financial instrument that embodies both the embedded derivative and
the host contract is not measured at fair value with changes in fair value
reported in earnings, and (3) if a separate instrument with the same terms as
the embedded instrument would meet the definition of a derivative. If the
embedded derivative meets all of these conditions, we separate it from the host
contract by recording the bifurcated derivative at fair value and the remaining
host contract at the difference between      

146   

the basis of
the hybrid instrument and the fair value of the bifurcated derivative. The
bifurcated derivative is carried as a free-standing derivative at fair value
with changes recorded in current period earnings.  

  By using derivatives,
we are exposed to counterparty credit risk,     which is the risk that counterparties to the derivative contracts
do not perform as expected. If a counterparty fails to perform, our
counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset
on our balance sheet. The amounts reported as a derivative asset are derivative
contracts in a gain position, and to the extent subject to legally enforceable
master netting arrangements, net of derivatives in a loss position with the
same counterparty and cash collateral received. We minimize counterparty credit
risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, executing master
netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. To the extent
derivatives subject to master netting arrangements meet the applicable
requirements, including determining the legal enforceability of the
arrangement, it is our policy to present derivatives balances and related cash
collateral amounts net on the balance sheet. Counterparty credit risk related
to derivatives is considered in determining fair value and our assessment of
hedge effectiveness.  

Private Share
Repurchases    

  During 2013 and 2012, we repurchased approximately 40 million
shares and 36 million shares, respectively, under private forward     repurchase contracts. We enter into these     transactions with unrelated third parties to
complement our open-market common stock repurchase strategies, to allow us to
manage our share repurchases in a manner consistent with our capital plans,
currently submitted under the 2013 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review
(CCAR), and to provide an economic benefit to the Company.  

  Our payments to the counterparties for these
private share repurchase contracts are recorded in permanent equity in the
quarter paid and are not subject to re-measurement. The classification of the
up-front payments as permanent equity assures that we have appropriate
repurchase timing consistent with our 2013 capital plan, which contemplated a
fixed dollar amount available per quarter for share repurchases pursuant to
Federal Reserve Board (FRB) supervisory guidance. In return, the counterparty
agrees to deliver a variable number of shares based on a per share discount to
the volume-weighted average stock price over the contract period. There are no
scenarios where the contracts would not either physically settle in shares or
allow us to choose the settlement method.  

  In December 2013, we entered into a private
forward repurchase contract and paid $500 million to an unrelated third party.
This contract is expected to settle in first quarter 2014. At December 31,
2012, we had a $200 million private forward repurchase contract outstanding that
settled in first quarter 2013 for 6 million shares of common stock.     Our total number of outstanding shares of common stock
is not reduced until settlement of the private share repurchase contract.  

147   

Note 1:                 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies        (continued)              

Supplemental Cash
Flow Information       Noncash
activities are presented below, including information on transfers affecting
MHFS, LHFS, and MSRs.  

(1)      Includes $2.7 billion,
$3.5 billion and $3.4  
  billion
in transfers of government insured/guaranteed loans for the years ended December
31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Prior years have been revised to correct
previously reported amounts.  

Subsequent Events       We have
evaluated the effects of events that have occurred subsequent to December 31,
2013, and there have been no material events that would require recognition in
our     2013 consolidated financial statements or disclosure in
the Notes to the consolidated financial statements  .       

148   

Note
2:              Business
Combinations                                                                                                                                          

We regularly explore opportunities to
acquire financial services companies and businesses. Generally, we do not make
a public announcement about an acquisition opportunity until a definitive
agreement has been signed. For information on additional contingent consideration
related to acquisitions, which is considered to be a guarantee, see Note 14.  

  We did not complete any acquisitions of
businesses during 2013. Business combinations completed in 2012 and 2011 are
presented below.  
  Additionally, we had no pending business
combinations as of December 31, 2013.      

(in millions)  

Date   

Assets   

2012    

EverKey Global Partners Limited / EverKey Global Management LLC
  /   

EverKey Global Partners (GP), LLC /  EverKey Global Focus (GP),
  LLC   Bahamas/New York, New York  

January
  1   

$   

7   

Burdale Financial Holdings Limited / Certain Assets of Burdale
  Capital Finance, Inc.   England/Stamford, Connecticut  

February
  1   

874   

Energy Lending Business of BNP Paribas, SA   Houston, Texas  

April
  20   

3,639   

Merlin Securities, LLC / Merlin Canada LTD. / Certain Assets and
  Liabilities  

of Merlin Group Holdings, LLC   San Francisco,
  California/Toronto, Ontario  

August
  1   

281   

$   

4,801   

2011    

CP Equity, LLC   Denver, Colorado  

July
  1   

$   

389   

Certain assets of Foreign Currency Exchange Corp   Orlando,
  Florida  

August
  1   

46   

LaCrosse Holdings, LLC   Minneapolis, Minnesota  

November
  30   

116   

Other (1)  

Various   

37   

$   

588   

(1)      Consists of seven
acquisitions of insurance brokerage businesses.  

149   

Note
3:              Cash, Loan and
Dividend Restrictions                                                                                                                

Federal
Reserve Board (FRB) regulations require that each of our subsidiary banks
maintain reserve balances on deposit with the Federal Reserve Banks. The
average required reserve balance was $11.8 billion in 2013 and
$9.1 billion in 2012.  

  Federal law restricts the amount
and the terms of both credit and non-credit transactions between a bank and its
nonbank affiliates. They may not exceed 10% of the bank's capital and surplus (which
for this purpose represents Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, as calculated under the
risk-based capital (RBC) guidelines, plus the balance of the allowance for
credit losses excluded from Tier 2 capital) with any single nonbank affiliate
and 20% of the bank's capital and surplus with all its nonbank affiliates.
Transactions that are extensions of credit may require collateral to be held to
provide added security to the bank. For further discussion of RBC, see Note 26
in this Report.  

  Dividends paid by our subsidiary
banks are subject to various federal and state regulatory limitations.
Dividends that may be paid by a national bank without the express approval of
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) are limited to that bank's
retained net profits for the preceding two calendar years plus retained net
profits up to the date of any dividend declaration in the current calendar
year. Retained net profits, as defined by the OCC, consist of net income less
dividends declared during the period  .   

  We also have a state-chartered
subsidiary bank that is subject to state regulations that limit dividends.
Under these provisions and regulatory limitations, our national and
state-chartered subsidiary banks could have declared additional dividends of
$5.1 billion at December 31, 2013, without obtaining prior regulatory
approval. We have elected to retain capital at our national and state-chartered
subsidiary banks to meet new regulatory requirements associated with the
implementation of Basel III. Our nonbank subsidiaries are also limited by
certain federal and state statutory provisions and regulations covering the
amount of dividends that may be paid in any given year. Based on retained
earnings at December 31, 2013, our nonbank subsidiaries could have declared
additional dividends of $7.7 billion at December 31, 2013, without
obtaining prior approval.  

  The FRB published clarifying
supervisory guidance in first quarter 2009, SR 09-4 Applying Supervisory
Guidance and Regulations on the Payment of Dividends, Stock Redemptions, and
Stock Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies, pertaining to FRB's criteria,
assessment and approval process for reductions in capital. The FRB supplemented
this guidance with the Capital Plan Rule issued in fourth quarter 2011
(codified at 12 CFR 225.8 of Regulation Y) that establishes capital planning
and prior notice and approval requirements for capital distributions including
dividends by certain bank holding companies. The effect of this guidance is to
require the approval of the FRB (or specifically under the Capital Plan Rule, a
notice of non-objection) for the Company to repurchase or redeem common or
perpetual preferred stock as well as to raise the per share quarterly dividend
from its current level of $0.30 per share as declared by the Company s Board of
Directors on January 28, 2014, payable on March 1, 2014.  

Note 4:          Federal
Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Resale Agreements and Other          Short-Term
Investments                                                                                                                                                                           

The
following table provides the detail of federal funds sold, securities purchased
under short-term resale agreements     (generally
less than one year) and other short-term investments. The majority of
interest-earning deposits at December 31, 2013 and     2012, were held at the Federal
Reserve.      

We have classified     securities
purchased under long-term resale agreements (generally one year or more), which
totaled $10.1 billion and $9.5     billion at December     31, 2013 and     2012,
respectively, in loans. For additional information on the collateral we receive
from other entities under resale agreements and securities borrowings, see the
 Offsetting of Resale and Repurchase Agreements and Securities Borrowing and
Lending Agreements  section of Note 14.  

150   

Note
5:  Investment Securities                                                                                                                                             

The following table provides the amortized cost
and fair value by major categories of available-for-sale securities, which are carried
at fair value, and held-to-maturity debt securities, which are carried at
amortized cost. The net unrealized gains (losses) for available-for-sale securities  
  are
reported on an     after tax basis
as a component of cumulative OCI. There were no securities classified as held-to-maturity
as of December 31, 2012.  

(1)      Includes      collateralized
debt obligations (CDOs) with a cost basis and fair value of $509     million
and $693  
  million,
respectively, at December 31, 2013, and $556     million
and $644 million, respectively at December 31, 2012.   

  (2)      Included
in the  Other  category of available-for-sale securities are asset-backed
securities collateralized by auto leases or loans and cash reserves with a cost
basis and fair value of $500 million and $513     million,
respectively, at December 31, 2013, and $5.9 billion each at December 31, 2012.     The
remaining balances in the  Other  category of available-for-sale securities primarily
include asset-backed securities collateralized by credit cards, student loans
and home equity loans.     Included in the  Other 
category of held-to-maturity securities are asset-backed securities
collateralized by auto leases or loans     and
cash reserves with a cost basis and fair value of $4.3 billion each at December
31, 2013. Also included in the  Other  category of held-to-maturity securities
are asset-backed securities collateralized by dealer floorplan loans with a
cost basis and fair value of $1.7 billion each at December 31, 2013.  

  (3)      At
December 31, 2013 and 2012, we held no securities of any single issuer
(excluding the U.S. Treasury and federal agencies) with a book value that
exceeded 10% of stockholders  equity.  

151   

Note 5:             Investment Securities        (continued)              

Gross Unrealized Losses and Fair Value   

  The following table shows the gross unrealized losses
and fair value of securities in the investment securities     portfolio by length of time that individual
securities in each category had been in a continuous loss position. Debt
securities on which we have taken credit-related OTTI write-downs are
categorized as being  less than 12 months  or  12 months or more  in a
continuous loss position based on the point in time that the fair value
declined to below the cost basis and not the period of time since the credit-related
OTTI write-down.  

152   

We do
not have the intent to sell any securities included in the previous table. For
debt securities included in the table, we have concluded it is more likely than
not that we will not be required to sell prior to recovery of the amortized
cost basis. We have assessed each security with gross unrealized losses for
credit impairment. For debt securities, we evaluate, where necessary, whether
credit impairment exists by comparing the present value of the expected cash
flows to the securities  amortized cost basis. For equity securities, we
consider numerous factors in determining whether impairment exists, including
our intent and ability to hold the securities for a period of time sufficient
to recover the cost basis of the securities.  

  See Note 1    Investments  for
the factors that we consider in our analysis of OTTI for debt and equity
securities.  

Securities of U.S.
Treasury and federal agencies and federal agency mortgage-backed securities
(MBS)       The
unrealized losses associated with U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities
and federal agency MBS are primarily driven by changes in interest rates and
not due to credit losses given the explicit or implicit guarantees provided by
the U.S. government.  

Securities of U.S.
states and political subdivisions       The unrealized losses associated with
securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions are primarily driven by
changes in the relationship between municipal and term funding credit curves
rather than by changes to the credit quality of the underlying securities.
Substantially all of these investments are investment grade. The securities
were generally underwritten in accordance with our own investment standards
prior to the decision to purchase. Some of these securities are guaranteed by a
bond insurer, but we did not rely on this guarantee in making our investment
decision. These investments will continue to be monitored as part of our
ongoing impairment analysis, but are expected to perform, even if the rating
agencies reduce the credit rating of the bond insurers. As a result, we expect
to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities.  

Residential and
commercial MBS       The unrealized losses associated with private
residential MBS and commercial MBS are primarily driven by changes in projected
collateral losses, credit spreads and interest rates. We assess for credit
impairment by estimating the present value of expected cash flows. The key
assumptions for determining expected cash flows include default rates, loss
severities and/or prepayment rates. We estimate losses to a security by
forecasting the underlying mortgage loans in each transaction. We use
forecasted loan performance to project cash flows to the various tranches in
the structure. We also consider cash flow forecasts and, as applicable,
independent industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings, and
other independent market data. Based upon our assessment of the expected credit
losses and the credit enhancement level of the securities, we expect to recover
the entire amortized cost basis of these securities.  

Corporate Debt
Securities       The
unrealized losses associated with corporate debt securities are primarily
related to unsecured debt obligations issued by various corporations. We
evaluate the financial performance of each issuer on a quarterly basis to
determine that the issuer can make all contractual principal and interest
payments. Based upon this assessment, we expect to recover the entire amortized
cost basis of these securities.  

Collateralized LOAN AND OTHER Debt
Obligations         The
unrealized losses associated with collateralized loan and other debt
obligations relate to securities primarily backed by commercial, residential or
other consumer collateral. The unrealized losses are primarily driven by
changes in projected collateral losses, credit spreads and interest rates. We
assess for credit impairment by estimating the present value of expected cash
flows. The key assumptions for determining expected cash flows include default
rates, loss severities and prepayment rates. We also consider cash flow
forecasts and, as applicable,     independent
industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings, and other
independent market data. Based upon our assessment of the expected credit
losses and the credit enhancement level of the securities, we expect to recover
the entire amortized cost basis of these securities.  

Other Debt
Securities         The unrealized losses associated with other debt
securities primarily relate to other asset-backed securities. The losses are
primarily driven by changes in projected collateral losses, credit spreads and
interest rates. We assess for credit impairment by estimating the present value
of expected cash flows. The key assumptions for determining expected cash flows
include default rates, loss severities and prepayment rates. Based upon our
assessment of the expected credit losses and the credit enhancement level of
the securities, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these
securities.  

Marketable Equity
Securities       Our
marketable equity securities include investments in perpetual preferred
securities, which provide attractive tax-equivalent yields. We evaluated these
hybrid financial instruments with investment-grade ratings for impairment using
an evaluation methodology similar to that used for debt securities. Perpetual
preferred securities are not considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired
if there is no evidence of credit deterioration or investment rating downgrades
of any issuers to below investment grade, and we expect to continue to receive
full contractual payments. We will continue to evaluate the prospects for these
securities for recovery in their market value in accordance with our policy for
estimating OTTI. We have recorded impairment write-downs on perpetual preferred
securities where there was evidence of credit deterioration.  

OTHER INVESTMENT SECURITIES         MATTERS        The
fair values of our investment securities could decline in the future if the
underlying performance of the collateral for the residential and commercial MBS
or other securities deteriorate and our credit enhancement levels do not
provide sufficient protection to our contractual principal and interest. As a
result, there is a risk that significant OTTI may occur in the future.  

  The following table shows the
gross unrealized losses and fair value of debt and perpetual preferred investment
securities  
  by those rated investment grade
and those rated less than investment grade, according to their lowest credit
rating by Standard   Poor s Rating Services (S P) or Moody s Investors
Service (Moody s). Credit ratings express opinions about the credit quality of
a security. Securities rated investment grade, that is those rated BBB- or
higher by      

153   

Note 5:             Investment Securities        (continued)              

S P or Baa3 or higher by Moody s, are
generally considered by the rating agencies and market participants to be low
credit risk. Conversely, securities rated below investment grade, labeled as
 speculative grade  by the rating agencies, are considered to be distinctively
higher credit risk than investment grade securities. We have also included
securities not rated by S P or Moody s in the table below based on the
internal credit grade of the securities (used for credit risk management
purposes) equivalent to the credit rating assigned by major credit agencies. The
unrealized losses and fair value of unrated securities categorized as
investment grade based on internal credit grades were $18 million and $1.9
billion, respectively, at December 31, 2013, and $19 million and $2.0
billion, respectively, at December 31, 2012. If an internal credit
grade was not assigned, we categorized the security as non-investment grade.  

154   

Contractual Maturities   

  The following table shows the remaining contractual
maturities and contractual weighted-average yields (taxable-equivalent basis) of
debt securities. The remaining contractual principal maturities for MBS do not
consider prepayments. Remaining expected maturities will differ from
contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay
obligations before the underlying mortgages mature.  

155   

Note 5:             Investment Securities        (continued)              

Realized Gains and Losses   

  The following table shows the gross realized gains and
losses on sales and OTTI write-downs related to the investment securities     portfolio, which includes marketable equity
securities, as well as net realized gains and losses on nonmarketable equity investments
(see Note 7   Other Assets).  

Other-Than-Temporary
Impairment   

  The following table shows the detail of total OTTI
write-downs included in earnings for debt securities, marketable equity securities
and nonmarketable equity investments.  

156   

Other-Than-Temporarily
Impaired Debt Securities   

  The following table shows the detail of OTTI
write-downs on debt securities     included
in earnings and the related changes in OCI for the same securities.  

(1)      Represents amounts
recorded to OCI for impairment, due to factors other than credit,     on debt securities that
have also had credit-related OTTI write-downs during the     period. Increases
represent initial or subsequent     non-credit-related
OTTI on debt securities.  
  Decreases
represent partial to full reversal of impairment due to recoveries in the fair
value of securities due to factors other than credit.      

The following table presents a
rollforward of the credit loss component recognized in earnings for debt
securities we still own (referred to as  credit-impaired  debt securities). The
credit loss component of the amortized cost represents the difference between
the present value of expected future cash flows discounted using the security s
current effective interest rate and the amortized cost basis of the security
prior to considering credit losses. OTTI recognized in earnings for
credit-impaired debt securities is presented as additions and is classified
into one of two components based upon whether the current period is the first
time the debt security was credit-impaired (initial credit impairment) or if
the debt security was previously credit-impaired (subsequent credit
impairments). The credit loss component is reduced if we sell, intend to sell
or believe we will be required to sell previously credit-impaired debt
securities. Additionally, the credit loss component is reduced if we receive or
expect to receive cash flows in excess of what we previously expected to receive
over the remaining life of the credit-impaired debt security, the security
matures or is fully written down.  

  Changes in the credit loss
component of credit-impaired debt securities that were recognized in earnings
and related to securities that we do not intend to sell are presented in the
following table.  

(1)      Recoveries of previous
credit impairments result from increases in expected cash flows subsequent to
credit loss recognition. Such recoveries are reflected prospectively as
interest yield adjustments using the effective interest method.   

157   

Note 5:             Investment Securities        (continued)              

To determine
credit impairment losses for asset-backed securities (e.g., residential MBS,
commercial MBS), we estimate expected     future cash flows of the security by estimating the expected future cash
flows of the underlying collateral and applying those collateral cash flows,
together with any credit enhancements such as subordinated interests owned by
third parties, to the security. The expected future cash flows of the
underlying collateral are determined using the remaining contractual cash flows
adjusted for future expected credit losses (which consider current
delinquencies and nonperforming assets (NPAs), future expected default rates
and collateral value by vintage and geographic region) and prepayments. The
expected cash flows of the security are then discounted at the security s
current effective interest rate to arrive at a present value amount. Total
credit impairment losses on residential MBS that we do not intend to sell are
shown in the table below. The table also presents a summary of the significant
inputs considered in determining the measurement of the credit loss component
recognized in earnings for residential MBS.  

(1)      Represents
future expected credit losses on each pool of loans underlying respective
securities expressed as a percentage of the total current outstanding loan
balance of the pool for each respective security.  

  (2)      Represents
the range of inputs/assumptions based upon the individual securities within
each category.  

  (3)      Represents
distribution of credit impairment losses recognized in earnings categorized
based on range of expected remaining life of loan losses. For example 91% of
credit impairment losses recognized in earnings for the year ended December 31,
2013, had expected remaining life of loan loss assumptions of 0 to 10%.  

  (4)      Calculated
by weighting the relevant input/assumption for each individual security by
current outstanding amortized cost basis of the security.  

  (5)      Represents
current level of credit protection provided by tranches subordinate to our
security holdings (subordination), expressed as a percentage of total current
underlying loan balance.  

  (6)      Constant
prepayment rate.  

Total credit impairment losses on commercial
MBS that we do not intend to sell were $28     million, $86 million, and $101 million     for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012
and 2011, respectively. Significant inputs considered in determining the credit
impairment losses for commercial MBS are the expected remaining life of loan
loss rates and current subordination levels.     Prepayment activity on commercial MBS does not
significantly impact the determination of their credit impairment because,
unlike residential MBS, commercial MBS experience significantly lower
prepayments due to certain contractual restrictions, impacting the borrower s
ability to prepay the mortgage.     The
expected remaining life of loan loss rates for commercial MBS with credit
impairment losses ranged from     4%
to 15%, 3% to 18%, and 4% to 18%, while the current subordination level ranges
were 0% to  
  21%, 0% to 13%, and     3% to 15% for the years ended December 31,
2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

158   

Note
6:  Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses                                                                                                              

The
following table presents total loans outstanding by
portfolio segment and class of financing receivable. Outstanding balances
include a total net reduction of $6.4 billion and $7.4 billion at
December 31, 2013 and     December
31, 2012, respectively, for unearned income, net deferred
loan fees, and unamortized discounts and premiums. Outstanding balances also
include PCI loans net of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments.
Information about PCI loans is presented separately in the  Purchased
Credit-Impaired Loans  section of this Note.   

(1)      Substantially all of
our foreign loan portfolio is commercial loans. Loans are classified as foreign
primarily based on whether the borrower s primary address is outside of the
United States.  

Loan
Concentrations   

  Loan
concentrations may exist when there are amounts loaned to borrowers engaged in
similar activities or similar types of loans extended to a diverse group of
borrowers that would cause them to be similarly impacted by economic or other
conditions. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we did not have concentrations
representing 10% or more of our total loan portfolio in domestic commercial and
industrial loans and lease financing by industry or CRE loans (real estate
mortgage and real estate construction) by state or property type. Our real
estate 1-4 family mortgage loans to borrowers in the state of California
represented approximately 13% of total loans at both December 31, 2013 and 2012,
of which 2% were PCI loans in both years. These California loans are generally
diversified among the larger metropolitan areas in California, with no single
area consisting of more than 3% of total loans. We continuously monitor changes
in real estate values and underlying economic or market conditions for all geographic
areas of our real estate 1-4 family mortgage portfolio as part of our credit
risk management process.  

  Some of our real estate 1-4
family first and junior lien mortgage loans include an interest-only feature as
part of the loan terms. These interest-only loans were approximately 15%
of total loans at December 31, 2013, and 18% at December 31, 2012.
Substantially all of these interest-only loans at origination were considered
to be prime or near prime. We do not offer option adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM)
products, nor do we offer variable-rate mortgage products with fixed payment
amounts, commonly referred to within the financial services industry as
negative amortizing mortgage loans. We acquired an option payment loan
portfolio (Pick-a-Pay) from Wachovia at December 31, 2008. A majority of the
portfolio was identified as PCI loans. Since the acquisition, we have reduced
our exposure to the option payment portion of the portfolio through our
modification efforts and loss mitigation actions. At December 31, 2013, approximately
3% of total loans remained with the payment option feature compared with 10% at
December 31, 2008.  

  Our first and junior lien lines
of credit products generally have a draw period of 10 years (with some up to 15
or 20 years) with variable interest rate and payment options during the draw
period of (1) interest only or (2) 1.5% of total outstanding balance plus
accrued interest. During the draw period, the borrower has the option of
converting all or a portion of the line from a variable interest rate to a
fixed rate with terms including interest-only payments for a fixed period
between three to seven years or a fully amortizing payment with a fixed period
between five to 30 years. At the end of the draw period, a line of credit
generally converts to an amortizing payment schedule with repayment terms of up
to 30 years based on the balance at time of conversion. At December 31, 2013,
our lines of credit portfolio had an outstanding balance of $75.7 billion, of
which $3.9 billion, or     5%,
is in its amortization period, another $11.6 billion, or 15%, of our total
outstanding balance, will reach their end of draw period during 2014     through 2015, $22.8     billion, or 30%,     during 2016     through 2018, and $37.4     billion, or     50%, will convert in subsequent
years. This portfolio had unfunded credit commitments of $73.6 billion at
December 31, 2013. The lines that enter their amortization period may
experience higher delinquencies and higher loss rates than the ones in their
draw period. At December 31, 2013, $274 million, or 7%, of outstanding lines of
credit that are in their amortization period were 30 or more days past due,
compared with $1.5     billion,
or 2%, for lines in their draw period. We have considered this increased
inherent risk in our allowance for credit loss estimate. In anticipation of our
borrowers reaching the end of their contractual commitment, we have created a
program to inform, educate and help these borrowers transition from interest-only
to fully-amortizing payments or full repayment. We      

159   

Note 6:                 Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses                 (continued)              

monitor
the performance of the borrowers moving through the program in an effort to
refine our ongoing program strategy.  

Loan Purchases, Sales, and Transfers   

  The
following table summarizes the proceeds paid or received for purchases and
sales of loans and transfers from loans held for investment to mortgages/loans
held for sale at lower of cost or market. This loan activity primarily includes
loans purchased and sales of whole loan or participating interests, whereby we
receive or transfer a portion of a loan after origination. The table excludes
PCI loans and loans recorded at fair value, including loans originated for sale
because their loan activity normally does not impact the allowance for credit
losses.  

(1)      The
 Purchases  and  Transfers to MHFS/LHFS  categories exclude activity in
government insured/guaranteed loans. As servicer, we are able to buy delinquent
insured/guaranteed loans out of the Government National Mortgage Association
(GNMA) pools. These loans have different risk characteristics from the rest of
our consumer portfolio, whereby this activity does not impact the allowance for
loan losses in the same manner because the loans are predominantly insured by
the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of
Veterans Affairs (VA).     On a net basis, such
purchases net of transfers to MHFS were $8.2     billion
and $9.8  
  billion
for the year ended     2013 and 2012, respectively.  

160   

Commitments to
Lend   

  A commitment to lend
is a legally binding agreement to lend funds to a customer, usually at a stated
interest rate, if funded, and for specific purposes and time periods.     We generally
require a fee to extend such commitments. Certain commitments are subject to
loan agreements with covenants regarding the financial performance of the
customer or borrowing base formulas on an ongoing basis that must be met before
we are required to fund the commitment. We may reduce or cancel consumer
commitments, including home equity lines and credit card lines, in accordance
with the contracts and applicable law.  

  We
may, as a representative for other lenders, advance funds or provide for the
issuance of letters of credit under syndicated loan or letter of credit
agreements. Any advances are generally repaid in less than a week and would
normally require default of both the customer and another lender to expose us
to loss.  These temporary advance arrangements totaled approximately $87
billion at December 31, 2013.  

  We
issue commercial letters of credit to assist customers in purchasing goods or
services, typically for international trade. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we
had $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, of outstanding issued
commercial letters of credit.     We
also originate multipurpose lending commitments under which borrowers have the
option to draw on the facility for different purposes in one of several forms,
including a standby letter of credit. See Note 14 for additional information on
standby letters of credit.  

When
we make commitments, we are exposed to credit risk. The maximum credit risk for
these commitments will generally be lower than the contractual amount because a
significant portion of these commitments are expected to expire without being
used by the customer. In addition, we manage the potential risk in commitments to
lend by limiting the total amount of commitments, both by individual customer
and in total, by monitoring the size and maturity structure of these commitments     and by applying
the same credit standards  
  for
these commitments as for all of our credit activities.      

  For
certain loans and commitments to lend,     we may require collateral or a guarantee, based on
our assessment of a customer s credit risk. We may require various types of
collateral, including commercial and consumer real estate, autos, other
short-term liquid assets such as accounts receivable or inventory and
long-lived asset, such as equipment and other business assets. Collateral
requirements for each loan or commitment may vary according to the specific
credit underwriting, including terms and structure of loans funded immediately
or under a commitment to fund at a later date.  

The contractual amount of our unfunded credit
commitments, including unissued standby and commercial letters of credit, is summarized
by portfolio segment and class of financing receivable in the following table.
The table excludes standby and commercial letters of credit issued under the
terms of our commitments and temporary advance commitments on behalf of other
lenders.  

161   

Note 6:                 Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses                 (continued)              

Allowance for Credit Losses   

  The allowance for credit losses consists of the
allowance     for loan losses and the allowance for unfunded credit
commitments.  
  Changes in the allowance for credit losses
were:  

(1)      Certain impaired loans
with an  
  allowance
calculated by discounting expected cash flows using the loan s effective
interest rate over the remaining life of the loan recognize reductions in the
allowance as interest income.  

  (2)      For PCI loans,
charge-offs are only recorded to the extent that losses exceed the purchase
accounting estimates.  

  (3)      Includes $693 million
for the year ended December 31, 2010, related to the adoption of consolidation
accounting guidance on January 1, 2010.  

  (4)      The allowance for
credit losses includes $30 million, $117 million, $231 million, $298 million
and $333 million at December 31, 2013,     2012,      2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, related
to PCI loans acquired from Wachovia. Loans acquired from Wachovia are included
in total loans net of related purchase accounting net write-downs.  

162   

The following table summarizes the activity in the
allowance for credit losses by our commercial and consumer portfolio segments.  

The
following table disaggregates our allowance for credit losses and recorded
investment in loans by impairment methodology.  

(1)      Represents loans
collectively evaluated for impairment in accordance with Accounting Standards
Codification (ASC) 450-20,  
   Loss
Contingencies   
(formerly FAS 5), and pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010-20 regarding allowance
for non-impaired loans.   

  (2)      Represents loans
individually evaluated for impairment in accordance with ASC 310-10,    Receivables    
(formerly FAS 114), and pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010-20 regarding
allowance for impaired loans.   

  (3)      Represents the
allowance and related loan carrying value determined in accordance with ASC
310-30   , Receivables   Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated
Credit Quality    (formerly SOP 03-3) and pursuant to amendments by ASU
2010-20 regarding allowance for PCI loans.  

Credit Quality   

  We monitor credit quality by
evaluating various attributes and utilize such information in our evaluation of
the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses.     The following sections provide the
credit quality indicators we most closely monitor.     The credit quality indicators are
generally based on     information as of our financial statement date, with
the exception of updated Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO)
scores and updated loan-to-value (LTV)/combined LTV (CLTV), which are obtained
at least quarterly. Generally, these indicators are updated in the second month
of each quarter, with updates no older than September     30, 2013.     See the  Purchased Credit-Impaired
Loans  section of this Note for credit quality information on our PCI
portfolio.  

Commercial Credit Quality Indicators   
      In addition to
monitoring commercial loan concentration risk, we manage a consistent process
for assessing commercial loan credit quality. Generally, commercial loans are
subject to individual risk assessment using our internal borrower and
collateral quality ratings. Our ratings are aligned to Pass and Criticized
categories. The Criticized category includes Special Mention, Substandard, and
Doubtful categories which are defined by bank regulatory agencies.  

  The following table provides a breakdown of
outstanding commercial loans by risk category. Of the $12.7 billion in
criticized commercial real estate (CRE) loans at December 31, 2013, $2.7
billion has been placed on nonaccrual status and written down to net realizable
collateral value. CRE loans     have
a high level of  
  monitoring in place to manage
these assets and mitigate loss exposure.  

163   

Note 6:                 Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses                 (continued)              

The following table provides
past due information for commercial loans, which we monitor as part of our
credit risk management practices.  

164   

Consumer Credit
Quality Indicators       We have various classes of consumer loans
that present unique risks. Loan delinquency, FICO credit scores and LTV for
loan types are common credit quality indicators that we monitor and utilize in
our evaluation of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses for
the consumer portfolio segment.  

Many of our loss estimation techniques used
for the allowance for credit losses rely on delinquency-based models; therefore,
delinquency is an important indicator of credit quality and the establishment
of our allowance for credit losses. The following table provides the
outstanding balances of our consumer portfolio by delinquency status.  

(1)      Represents
loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by
the VA and student loans whose repayments are predominantly guaranteed by
agencies on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under the Federal Family
Education Loan Program (FFELP). Loans insured/guaranteed by the FHA/VA and 90+
DPD totaled $20.8 billion at December 31 2013, compared with $20.2     billion
at December 31, 2012. Student loans 90+ DPD totaled $900 million at December 31,
2013, compared with $1.1 billion at December 31, 2012.  

Of the $7.7 billion of consumer loans not
government insured/guaranteed that are 90 days or more past due at December 31,
2013, $902 million was accruing, compared with $10.3 billion past due and $1.1
billion accruing at December 31, 2012.  

  Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loans
180 days or more past due totaled $5.0 billion, or 2.1% of total first
mortgages (excluding PCI), at December 31, 2013,   compared
with   $6.7    billion, or   3.0  %, at     December 31, 2012.  

The following table provides a breakdown of
our consumer portfolio by updated FICO. We obtain FICO scores at loan
origination and the scores are updated at least quarterly. The majority of our
portfolio is underwritten with a FICO score of 680 and above. FICO is not
available for certain loan types and may not be obtained if we deem it
unnecessary due to strong collateral and other borrower attributes, primarily
securities-based margin loans of $5.0 billion at December 31, 2013, and $5.4
billion at December 31, 2012.   

165   

Note 6:                 Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses                 (continued)              

(1)      Represents loans whose
repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA and student
loans whose repayments are predominantly guaranteed by agencies on behalf of
the U.S. Department of Education under FFELP.  

LTV refers to the ratio comparing the loan s
unpaid principal balance to the property s collateral value. CLTV refers to the
combination of first mortgage and junior lien mortgage (including unused line
amounts for credit line products) ratios. LTVs and CLTVs are updated quarterly     using a cascade approach which first uses
values provided by automated valuation models (AVMs) for the property. If an
AVM is not available, then the value is estimated using the original appraised
value adjusted by the change in Home Price Index (HPI) for the property
location. If an HPI is not available, the original appraised value is used.     The HPI value is normally the only method
considered for high value properties, generally with an original value of $1
million or more, as the AVM values have proven less accurate for these
properties.  

The following table shows the most updated
LTV and CLTV distribution of the real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien
mortgage loan portfolios.     We
consider the trends in residential real estate markets as we monitor credit
risk and establish our allowance for credit losses. LTV does not necessarily
reflect the likelihood of performance of a given loan, but does provide an
indication of collateral value. In the event of a default, any loss should be
limited to the portion of the loan amount in excess of the net realizable value
of the underlying real estate collateral value. Certain loans do not have an
LTV or CLTV primarily due to industry data availability and portfolios acquired
from or serviced by other institutions.  

166   

(1)      Reflects total loan
balances with LTV/CLTV amounts in excess of 100%. In the event of default, the
loss content would generally be limited to only the amount in excess of 100%
LTV/CLTV.  

  (2)      Represents loans whose
repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA.  

Nonaccrual
Loans       The following table provides loans
on nonaccrual status. PCI loans are excluded from this table because they
continue to earn interest from     accretable yield, independent of
performance in accordance with their contractual terms.  

(1)      Includes LHFS of $1
million and $16 million at December 31, 2013 and December 31,     2012, respectively.  

  (2)      Includes MHFS of $227
million and $336 million at December 31, 2013 and December 31,     2012, respectively.  

167   

Note 6:                 Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses                 (continued)              

LOANS 90 Days OR MORE Past Due and Still    
    Accruing        Certain
loans 90 days or more past due as to interest or principal are still accruing,
because they are (1) well-secured and in the process of collection or (2) real
estate 1 4 family mortgage loans or consumer loans exempt under
regulatory rules from being classified as nonaccrual until later delinquency,
usually 120 days past due. PCI loans of $4.5 billion at December 31, 2013, and $6.0 billion
at December 31, 2012, are not included in these past due and still accruing
loans even though they are 90 days or more contractually past due. These PCI
loans are considered to be accruing   because they continue to earn interest
from accretable yield, independent of performance in accordance with their
contractual terms. Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing whose
repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA for
mortgages and the U.S. Department of Education for student loans under the
FFELP were $22.2 billion   at December 31, 2013, up  
from $21.8     billion at   December 31, 2012  .   

  The following table shows non-PCI loans 90 days or more past due
and still accruing by class for loans not government insured/guaranteed.      

(1)      Represents loans whose
repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA.  

  (2)      Includes mortgage
loans held for sale 90 days or more past due and still accruing.  

  (3)      Represents loans whose
repayments are predominantly guaranteed by agencies on behalf of the U.S.
Department of Education under the FFELP.  

168   

Impaired Loans       The table below summarizes key
information for impaired loans. Our impaired loans predominantly include loans
on nonaccrual status in the commercial portfolio segment and loans modified in
a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual status. These impaired loans generally
have estimated losses which are included in the allowance for credit losses. We
have impaired loans with no allowance for credit losses when loss content has
been previously recognized through charge-offs and we do not anticipate
additional charge-offs or losses, or certain loans are currently performing in
accordance with their terms and for which no loss has been estimated.     Impaired loans exclude PCI loans. The
table below includes trial modifications that totaled $650     million at December 31, 2013, and $705
million at December 31, 2012.  

  For additional
information on our impaired loans and allowance for credit losses, see Note 1.  

(1)      Excludes the
unpaid principal balance for loans     that have been fully
charged off or otherwise have zero recorded investment.  

  (2)      At December
31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, includes the recorded investment of $2.5
billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, of government insured/guaranteed loans
that are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA and generally
do not have an allowance.  

169   

Note 6:                 Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses                 (continued)              

Commitments to lend additional funds on
loans whose terms have been modified in a TDR     amounted to $407     million and $421
million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  

  The
following tables provide the average recorded investment in impaired loans and
the amount of interest income recognized on impaired loans by portfolio segment
and class.   

(1)      Years ended     December 31, 2013 and
2012, reflect the OCC guidance issued in third quarter 2012, which requires
consumer loans discharged in bankruptcy to be classified as TDRs, as well as
written down to net realizable collateral value.  

  (2)      Includes interest
recognized on accruing TDRs, interest recognized related to certain impaired
loans which have an allowance calculated using discounting, and amortization of
purchase accounting adjustments related to certain impaired loans. See footnote
1 to the table of changes in the allowance for credit losses.  

170   

TROUBLED
DEBT RESTRUCTURINGs (TDR    s    )        When, for economic or legal reasons related
to a borrower s financial difficulties, we grant a concession for other than an
insignificant period of time to a borrower that we would not otherwise
consider, the related loan is classified as a TDR. We do not consider any
loans modified through a loan resolution such as foreclosure or short sale to
be a TDR.  

  We may require some borrowers experiencing
financial difficulty to make trial payments generally for a period of three to
four months, according to the terms of a planned permanent modification, to
determine if they can perform according to those terms. These arrangements
represent trial modifications, which we classify and account for as TDRs. While
loans are in trial payment programs, their original terms are not considered
modified and they continue to advance through delinquency status and accrue
interest according to their original terms. The planned modifications for these
arrangements predominantly involve interest rate reductions or other interest rate
concessions; however, the exact concession type and resulting financial effect
are usually not finalized and do not take effect until the loan is permanently
modified. The trial period terms are developed in accordance with our
proprietary programs or the U.S. Treasury s Making Homes Affordable programs
for real estate 1-4 family first lien (i.e. Home Affordable Modification
Program   HAMP) and junior lien (i.e. Second Lien Modification Program   2MP)
mortgage loans.  

At December 31, 2013, the loans in trial
modification period were $253     million
under HAMP, $45 million under 2MP and $352 million under proprietary programs,
compared with $402 million, $45 million and $258 million at December 31, 2012,
respectively. Trial modifications with a recorded investment of $286 million at
December 31, 2013, and $276 million at December 31, 2012, were accruing loans
and $364 million and $429 million, respectively, were nonaccruing loans. Our
experience is that most of the mortgages that enter a trial payment period
program are successful in completing the program requirements and are then
permanently modified at the end of the trial period. Our allowance process
considers the impact of those modifications that are probable to occur.  

  The following table summarizes our TDR
modifications for the periods presented by primary modification type and
includes the financial effects of these modifications. For those loans that
modify more than once, the table reflects each modification that occurred
during the period.  

171   

Note 6:                 Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses                 (continued)              

172   

The table below
summarizes permanent modification TDRs that have defaulted in the current
period within 12 months of their permanent modification date. We are reporting
these defaulted TDRs based on a payment default definition of 90 days past due
for the commercial portfolio segment and 60 days past due for the consumer
portfolio segment.      

Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans   

  Substantially all of our PCI loans were acquired
from Wachovia on December 31, 2008. The following table presents PCI loans net
of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments.     Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage PCI loans are
predominantly Pick-a-Pay loans.  

173   

Note 6:                 Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses                 (continued)              

Accretable Yield       The excess of cash flows expected to be
collected over the carrying value of PCI loans is referred to as the accretable
yield and is recognized in interest income using an effective yield method over
the remaining life of the loan, or pools of loans. The accretable yield is
affected by:  

changes in interest rate indices for variable rate PCI loans   expected
future cash flows are based on the variable rates in effect at the time of the regular
evaluations of cash flows expected to be collected;  

changes in prepayment assumptions   prepayments affect the estimated
life of PCI loans which may change the amount of interest income, and possibly
principal, expected to be collected; and  

changes in the expected principal and interest payments over the
estimated life   updates to expected cash flows are driven by the credit
outlook and actions taken with borrowers. Changes in expected future cash flows
from loan modifications are included in the regular evaluations of cash flows
expected to be collected.  

The change
in the accretable yield related to PCI loans is presented in the following
table.   

(1)      Includes accretable
yield released as a result of settlements with borrowers, which is included in
interest income.  

  (2)      Includes accretable
yield released as a result of sales to third parties, which is included in
noninterest income.  

  (3)      Represents changes in
cash flows expected to be collected due to     the impact of modifications, changes in prepayment
assumptions, changes in interest rates on variable rate PCI loans and sales to
third parties.  
  The
decline in expected interest cash flows in 2013 is primarily attributable to a
decline in variable rate indices applicable to these loans, an increase in
prepayment estimates, and updated estimates for interest collections
attributable to loan modification activities.  

174   

PCI Allowance       Based on our
regular evaluation of estimates of cash flows expected to be collected, we may
establish an allowance for a PCI loan or pool of loans, with a charge to income
though the provision for losses. The following table summarizes the changes in
allowance for PCI loan losses.  

Commercial PCI Credit Quality Indicators     The following  

  table
provides a breakdown of commercial PCI loans by risk category.  

175   

Note 6:                 Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses                 (continued)              

The
following table provides past due information for commercial PCI loans.  

Consumer PCI Credit Quality Indicators       Our consumer PCI loans were aggregated
into several pools of loans at acquisition. Below, we have provided credit
quality indicators based on the unpaid principal balance (adjusted for
write-downs) of the individual loans included in the pool, but we have not
allocated the remaining purchase accounting adjustments, which were established
at a pool level. The following table provides the delinquency status of
consumer PCI loans.  

176   

The
following table provides FICO scores for     consumer PCI loans.  

The following table
shows the distribution of consumer PCI     loans by LTV for real
estate 1-4 family first mortgages and by     CLTV   
  for
real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgages.  

(1)   
  Reflects
total loan balances with LTV/CLTV amounts in excess of 100%. In the event of
default, the loss content would generally be limited to only the amount in
excess of 100% LTV/CLTV.  

177   

Note
7:  Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets                                                                          

Depreciation and amortization expense for premises and
equipment was $1.2 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion in 2013, 2012 and
2011, respectively.  

  Dispositions of premises and equipment,
included in noninterest expense, resulted in a net loss of $15 million in 2013,
a net gain of $7 million in 2012 and a net loss of $17 million in 2011,
respectively.  

  We have obligations under a number of
noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment. The leases predominantly
expire over the next     15 years,
with the longest expiring in 2105, and many provide for periodic adjustment of
rentals based on changes in various economic indicators. Some leases also
include a renewal option. The following table provides the future minimum
payments under capital leases and noncancelable operating leases, net of
sublease rentals, with terms greater than one year as of December 31, 2013.  

Operating lease rental expense
(predominantly for premises), net of rental income, was $1.3 billion, $1.1
billion and $1.2 billion     in
2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

  The components of other assets were:  

(1)      Represents low income
housing tax credit investments.  

  (2)      Represents nonmarketable
equity investments for which we have elected the fair value option. See Note 17
for additional information.  

  (3)      These are foreclosed
real estate resulting from  
  government
insured/guaranteed loans. Both principal and interest related to these
foreclosed real estate assets are collectible because the loans were
predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA.  

Income (expense) related to nonmarketable equity
investments was:  

178   

Note 8:
Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities                                                                  

Involvement with SPEs   

  In the normal course of business, we enter into various
types of on- and off-balance sheet transactions with special purpose entities
(SPEs), which are corporations, trusts or partnerships that are established for
a limited purpose. Generally, SPEs are formed in connection with securitization
transactions. In a securitization transaction, assets from our balance sheet
are transferred to an SPE, which then issues to investors various forms of
interests in those assets and may also enter into derivative transactions. In a
securitization transaction, we typically receive cash and/or other interests in
an SPE as proceeds for the assets we transfer. Also, in certain transactions,
we may retain the right to service the transferred receivables and to
repurchase those receivables from the SPE if the outstanding balance of the
receivables falls to a level where the cost exceeds the benefits of servicing
such receivables. In addition, we may purchase the right to service loans in an
SPE that were transferred to the SPE by a third party.  

  In connection with our securitization
activities, we have various forms of ongoing involvement with SPEs, which may
include:  

          underwriting
securities issued by SPEs and subsequently making markets in those securities;  

          providing liquidity
facilities to support short-term obligations of SPEs issued to third party investors;  

providing credit
enhancement on securities issued by SPEs or market value guarantees of assets
held by SPEs through the use of letters of credit, financial guarantees, credit
default swaps and total return swaps;  

          entering into other
derivative contracts with SPEs;  

          holding senior or
subordinated interests in SPEs;   

          acting as servicer or
investment manager for SPEs; and  

          providing
administrative or trustee services to SPEs.  

SPEs are generally considered variable
interest entities (VIEs). A VIE is an entity that has either a total equity
investment that is insufficient to finance its activities without additional
subordinated financial support or whose equity investors lack the ability to control
the entity s activities or lack the ability to receive expected benefits or
absorb obligations in a manner that s consistent with their investment in the
entity. A VIE is consolidated by its primary beneficiary, the party that has
both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE
and a variable interest that could potentially be significant to the VIE. A
variable interest is a contractual, ownership or other interest that changes
with changes in the fair value of the VIE s net assets. To determine whether or
not a variable interest we hold could potentially be significant to the VIE, we
consider both qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the nature, size
and form of our involvement with the VIE. We assess whether or not we are the
primary beneficiary of a VIE on an on-going basis.  

  We have segregated our involvement with VIEs
between those VIEs which we consolidate, those which we do not consolidate and those
for which we account for the transfers of financial assets as secured
borrowings. Secured borrowings are transactions involving transfers of our
financial assets to third parties that are accounted for as financings with the
assets pledged as collateral. Accordingly, the transferred assets remain
recognized on our balance sheet. Subsequent tables within this Note further
segregate these transactions by structure type.  

179   

Note 8:                 Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities                 (continued)              

The classifications of assets and
liabilities in our balance sheet associated with our transactions with VIEs
follow:  

(1)      Excludes certain debt
securities related to loans serviced for the Federal National Mortgage
Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and GNMA.  

  (2)      Includes the following
VIE liabilities at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, with recourse to
the general credit of Wells Fargo: Short-term borrowings, $0 and $2.1 billion;
Accrued expenses and other liabilities, $9     million and $767 million; and Long-term debt,
$29 million and $29 million.  

Transactions
with Unconsolidated VIEs   

  Our transactions with VIEs include securitizations of residential
mortgage loans, CRE loans, student loans and auto loans and leases; investment
and financing activities involving collateralized debt obligations (CDOs)
backed by asset-backed and CRE securities, collateralized loan obligations
(CLOs) backed by corporate loans, and other types of structured financing. We
have various forms of involvement with VIEs, including holding senior or
subordinated interests, entering into liquidity arrangements, credit default
swaps and other derivative contracts. Involvements with these unconsolidated
VIEs are recorded on our balance sheet primarily in trading assets, investment
securities, loans, MSRs, other assets and other liabilities, as appropriate.  

  The following tables provide a summary of
unconsolidated VIEs with which we have significant continuing involvement, but
we are not the primary beneficiary. We do not consider our continuing
involvement in an unconsolidated VIE to be significant when it relates to
third-party sponsored VIEs for which we were not the transferor or if we were
the sponsor but do not have any other significant continuing involvement.  

  Significant continuing involvement includes
transactions where we were the sponsor or transferor and have other significant
forms of involvement. Sponsorship includes transactions with unconsolidated
VIEs where we solely or materially participated in the initial design or
structuring of the entity or marketing of the transaction to investors. When we
transfer assets to a VIE and account for the transfer as a sale, we are
considered the transferor. We consider investments in securities held outside
of trading, loans, guarantees, liquidity agreements, written options and servicing
of collateral to be other forms of involvement that may be significant. We have
excluded certain transactions with unconsolidated VIEs from the balances
presented in the following table where we have determined that our continuing
involvement is not significant due to the temporary nature and size of our
variable      

180   

interests, because we were not the
transferor or because we were not involved in the design or operations of the
unconsolidated VIEs.  

181   

Note 8:                 Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities                 (continued)              

(1)      Includes total equity
interests of $6.9  
  billion      at      December 31, 2013 and
$5.8 billion at  
  December
31, 2012.  
  Also
includes debt interests in the form of both loans and securities. Excludes
certain debt securities held related to loans serviced for FNMA, FHLMC and
GNMA.  

  (2)      Represents senior
loans to trusts that are collateralized by asset-backed securities. The trusts
invest primarily in senior tranches from a diversified pool of primarily U.S.
asset securitizations, of which all are current, and over     72% and 83%     were rated as
investment grade by the primary rating agencies at December 31, 2013 and 2012,
respectively. These senior loans are accounted for at amortized cost and are
subject to the Company s allowance and credit charge-off policies.  

  (3)      Includes structured
financing, student loan securitizations, auto loan and lease securitizations
and credit-linked note structures. Also contains investments in auction rate
securities (ARS) issued by VIEs that we do not sponsor and, accordingly, are
unable to obtain the total assets of the entity.  

  (4)      Maximum exposure to
loss for conforming residential mortgage loan securitizations at December 31,
2013 reflects the benefit of settlements reached with both FHLMC and FNMA in
2013, that resolved substantially all repurchase liabilities with FHLMC and
FNMA, for mortgage loans either sold or originated prior to January 1, 2009.
For additional information on the agreement reached with FHLMC and FNMA see
Note 9.  

182   

In the two preceding
tables,  Total VIE assets  represents the remaining principal balance of assets
held by unconsolidated VIEs using the most current information available. For
VIEs that obtain exposure to assets synthetically through derivative
instruments, the remaining notional amount of the derivative is included in the
asset balance.  Carrying value  is the amount in our consolidated balance sheet
related to our involvement with the unconsolidated VIEs.  Maximum exposure to
loss  from our involvement with off-balance sheet entities, which is a required
disclosure under GAAP, is determined as the carrying value of our involvement
with off-balance sheet (unconsolidated) VIEs plus the remaining undrawn
liquidity and lending commitments, the notional amount of net written
derivative contracts, and generally the notional amount of, or stressed loss
estimate for, other commitments and guarantees. It represents estimated loss
that would be incurred under severe, hypothetical circumstances, for which we
believe the possibility is extremely remote, such as where the value of our
interests and any associated collateral declines to zero, without any
consideration of recovery or offset from any economic hedges. Accordingly, this
required disclosure is not an indication of expected loss.  

RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOANS       Residential mortgage loan securitizations
are financed through the issuance of fixed- or
floating-rate-asset-backed-securities, which are collateralized by the loans
transferred to a VIE. We typically transfer loans we originated to these VIEs,
account for the transfers as sales, retain the right to service the loans and
may hold other beneficial interests issued by the VIEs. We also may be exposed
to limited liability related to recourse agreements and repurchase agreements
we make to our issuers and purchasers, which are included in other commitments
and guarantees. In certain instances, we may service residential mortgage loan
securitizations structured by third parties whose loans we did not originate or
transfer. Our residential mortgage loan securitizations consist of conforming
and nonconforming securitizations.  

  Conforming residential mortgage loan
securitizations are those that are guaranteed by GSEs, including GNMA. Because
of the power of the GSEs over the VIEs that hold the assets from these
conforming residential mortgage loan securitizations, we do not consolidate
them.  

  The loans sold to the VIEs in nonconforming
residential mortgage loan securitizations are those that do not qualify for a
GSE guarantee. We may hold variable interests issued by the VIEs, primarily in
the form of senior securities. We do not consolidate the nonconforming
residential mortgage loan securitizations included in the table because we
either do not hold any variable interests, hold variable interests that we do
not consider potentially significant or are not the primary servicer for a
majority of the VIE assets.  

  Other commitments and guarantees include
amounts related to loans sold that we may be required to repurchase, or
otherwise indemnify or reimburse the investor or insurer for losses incurred,
due to material breach of contractual representations and warranties as well as
other retained recourse arrangements. The maximum exposure to loss for material
breach of contractual representations and warranties represents a stressed case
estimate we utilize for determining stressed case regulatory capital needs and
is considered to be a remote scenario.  

COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOAN SECURITIZATIONS    Commercial mortgage loan securitizations are
financed through the issuance of fixed- or
floating-rate-asset-backed-securities, which are collateralized by the loans
transferred to the VIE. In a typical securitization, we may transfer loans we
originate to these VIEs, account for the transfers as sales, retain the right
to service the loans and may hold other beneficial interests issued by the
VIEs. In certain instances, we may service commercial mortgage loan
securitizations structured by third parties whose loans we did not originate or
transfer. We typically serve as primary or master servicer of these VIEs. The
primary or master servicer in a commercial mortgage loan securitization
typically cannot make the most significant decisions impacting the performance
of the VIE and therefore does not have power over the VIE. We do not
consolidate the commercial mortgage loan securitizations included in the
disclosure because we either do not have power or do not have a variable
interest that could potentially be significant to the VIE.  

COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (CDOs)       A CDO is a securitization where a VIE
purchases a pool of assets consisting of asset-backed securities and issues
multiple tranches of equity or notes to investors. In some CDOs, a portion of
the assets are obtained synthetically through the use of derivatives such as
credit default swaps or total return swaps.  

  Prior to 2008, we engaged in the structuring
of CDOs on behalf of third party asset managers who would select and manage the
assets for the CDO. Typically, the asset manager has some discretion to manage
the sale of assets of, or derivatives used by the CDO, which generally gives
the asset manager the power over the CDO. We have not structured these types of
transactions since the credit market disruption began in late 2007.  

  In addition to our role as arranger we may
have other forms of involvement with these CDOs, including ones established
prior to 2008. Such involvement may include acting as liquidity provider,
derivative counterparty, secondary market maker or investor. For certain CDOs,
we may also act as the collateral manager or servicer. We receive fees in
connection with our role as collateral manager or servicer.  

  We assess whether we are the primary
beneficiary of CDOs based on our role in them in combination with the variable
interests we hold. Subsequently, we monitor our ongoing involvement to
determine if the nature of our involvement has changed. We are not the primary
beneficiary of these CDOs in most cases because we do not act as the collateral
manager or servicer, which generally denotes power. In cases where we are the
collateral manager or servicer, we are not the primary beneficiary because we
do not hold interests that could potentially be significant to the VIE.  

COLLATERALIZED LOAN OBLIGATIONS (CLOs)       A CLO is a securitization where an SPE
purchases a pool of assets consisting of loans and issues multiple tranches of
equity or notes to investors. Generally, CLOs are structured on behalf of a
third party asset manager that typically selects and manages the assets for the
term of the CLO. Typically, the asset manager has the power over the
significant decisions of the VIE through its discretion to manage the assets of
the CLO. We assess whether we are the primary beneficiary of CLOs based on our
role in them and the variable interests we hold. In most cases, we are not the
primary beneficiary because we do not have the power to manage the collateral
in the VIE.  

  In addition to our role as arranger, we may
have other forms of involvement with these CLOs. Such involvement may include
acting as underwriter, derivative counterparty, secondary market maker or      

183   

Note 8:                 Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities                 (continued)              

investor. For certain CLOs, we may also act as the
servicer, for which we receive fees in connection with that role. We also earn
fees for arranging these CLOs and distributing the securities.  

ASSET-BASED FINANCE STRUCTURES       We engage in various forms of structured
finance arrangements with VIEs that are collateralized by various asset classes
including energy contracts, auto and other transportation leases, intellectual
property, equipment and general corporate credit. We typically provide senior
financing, and may act as an interest rate swap or commodity derivative
counterparty when necessary. In most cases, we are not the primary beneficiary
of these structures because we do not have power over the significant
activities of the VIEs involved in them.  

  For example, we have investments in
asset-backed securities that are collateralized by auto leases or loans and
cash reserves. These fixed-rate and variable-rate securities have been structured
as single-tranche, fully amortizing, unrated bonds that are equivalent to
investment-grade securities due to their significant overcollateralization. The
securities are issued by VIEs that have been formed by third party auto
financing institutions primarily because they require a source of liquidity to
fund ongoing vehicle sales operations. The third party auto financing
institutions manage the collateral in the VIEs, which is indicative of power in
them and we therefore do not consolidate these VIEs.  

TAX CREDIT STRUCTURES       We co-sponsor and make investments in
affordable housing and sustainable energy projects that are designed to
generate a return primarily through the realization of federal tax credits. In
some instances, our investments in these structures may require that we fund
future capital commitments at the discretion of the project sponsors. While the
size of our investment in a single entity may at times exceed 50% of the
outstanding equity interests, we do not consolidate these structures due to the
project sponsor s ability to manage the projects, which is indicative of power
in them.  

INVESTMENT FUNDS       We do not consolidate the investment funds
because we do not absorb the majority of the expected future variability
associated with the funds  assets, including variability associated with
credit, interest rate and liquidity risks.  

OTHER TRANSACTIONS WITH VIEs       Auction rate securities (ARS) are debt
instruments with long-term maturities, but     which re-price more frequently, and preferred equities
with no maturity. At December 31, 2013, we held in our securities
available-for-sale portfolio $653 million of ARS issued by VIEs redeemed
pursuant to agreements entered into in 2008 and 2009, compared with $686
million at December 31, 2012.  

  We do not consolidate the VIEs that issued
the ARS because we do not have power over the activities of the VIEs.   

TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES         VIEs that we wholly own issue debt
securities or preferred equity to third party investors. All of the proceeds of
the issuance are invested in debt securities or preferred equity that we issue
to the VIEs. The VIEs  operations and cash flows relate only to the issuance,
administration and repayment of the securities held by third parties. We do not
consolidate these VIEs because the sole assets of the VIEs are receivables from
us, even though we own all of the voting equity shares of the VIEs, have fully
guaranteed the obligations of the VIEs and may have the right to redeem the
third party securities under certain circumstances. In our consolidated balance
sheet at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we reported the debt securities
issued to the VIEs as long-term junior subordinated debt with a carrying value
of $1.9  
  billion      and $4.9 billion, respectively, and the preferred
equity securities issued to the VIEs as preferred stock with a carrying value
of $2.5 billion at both dates. These amounts are in addition to the
involvements in these VIEs included in the preceding table.  

  In 2013, we redeemed $2.8 billion of trust
preferred securities that will no longer count as Tier 1 capital under the
Dodd-Frank Act and the Basel Committee recommendations known as the Basel III
standards.  

Securitization Activity Related to Unconsolidated VIEs   

  We use VIEs to securitize consumer and CRE loans and
other types of financial assets, including student loans and auto loans. We
typically retain the servicing rights from these sales and may continue to hold
other beneficial interests in the VIEs. We may also provide liquidity to
investors in the beneficial interests and credit enhancements in the form of
standby letters of credit. Through these securitizations we may be exposed to
liability under limited amounts of recourse as well as standard representations
and warranties we make to purchasers and issuers.     The following table presents the cash flows with our
securitization trusts that were involved in transfers accounted for as sales.  

184      

(1)      Represents
cash flow data for all loans securitized in the period presented.  

In 2013, 2012, and 2011, we recognized net
gains of $149 million, $518 million and $112 million, respectively, from
transfers accounted for as sales of financial assets in securitizations. These
net gains primarily relate to commercial mortgage securitizations and
residential mortgage securitizations where the loans were not already carried at
fair value.  

  Sales with continuing involvement during
2013, 2012 and 2011 predominantly related to securitizations of residential
mortgages that are sold to the GSEs, including FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA (conforming
residential mortgage securitizations). During 2013, 2012 and 2011 we
transferred $343.9 billion, $517.3 billion and $329.1 billion respectively, in
fair value of conforming residential mortgages to unconsolidated VIEs and
recorded the transfers as sales. Substantially all of these transfers did not
result in a gain or loss because the loans were already carried at fair value. In
connection with all of these transfers, in 2013 we recorded a $3.5 billion
servicing asset,     measured at
fair value using a Level 3 measurement technique, and a $143 million liability for
repurchase losses which reflects management s estimate of probable losses
related to various representations and warranties for the loans transferred,
initially measured at fair value. In 2012, we recorded a     $4.9 billion servicing asset and a $274
million liability. In 2011, we recorded a     $4.0 billion servicing asset and a $101 million
liability.  

We used the following key weighted-average assumptions
to measure mortgage servicing assets at the date of securitization:  

(1)      The prepayment speed
assumption for residential mortgage servicing rights includes a blend of
prepayment speeds and default rates. Prepayment speed assumptions are
influenced by mortgage interest rate inputs as well as our estimation of
drivers of borrower behavior.  

  (2)      Includes costs to
service and unreimbursed foreclosure costs.  

During 2013, 2012 and 2011, we transferred $5.6
billion, $3.4 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, in fair value of
commercial mortgages to unconsolidated VIEs and recorded the transfers as
sales. These transfers resulted in a gain of $152 million in 2013, $178 million
in 2012 and $48 million in 2011, respectively,     because the loans were carried at LOCOM. In connection
with these transfers, in     2013
we recorded a servicing asset of $20 million, initially measured at fair value
using a Level 3 measurement technique, and available-for-sale     securities of $54 million, classified as
Level 2.  
  In 2012, we recorded a
servicing asset of $13 million and available-for-sale securities of $116
million. In 2011, we recorded a servicing asset of $20 million and available-for-sale
securities of $532 million.  

185   

Note 8:                 Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities                 (continued)              

The following
table provides key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of the current fair
value of residential mortgage servicing rights and other retained interests to
immediate adverse changes in those assumptions.  Other interests held  relate
predominantly to residential and commercial mortgage loan securitizations. Residential
mortgage-backed securities retained in securitizations issued through GSEs,
such as FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA, are excluded from the table because these
securities have a     remote risk of credit loss due to the GSE guarantee. These securities
also have economic characteristics similar to GSE mortgage-backed securities
that we purchase, which are not included in the table. Subordinated interests
include only those bonds whose credit rating was below AAA by a major rating
agency at issuance. Senior interests include only those bonds whose credit
rating was AAA by a major rating agency at issuance. The information presented
excludes trading positions held in inventory.  

(1)      See narrative
following this table for a discussion of commercial mortgage servicing rights.  

  (2)      Prepayment speed
assumptions do not significantly impact the value of commercial mortgage
securitization bonds as the underlying commercial mortgage loans experience
significantly lower prepayments due to certain contractual restrictions,
impacting the borrower s ability to prepay the mortgage.  

  (3)      The prepayment speed
assumption for residential mortgage servicing rights includes a blend of
prepayment speeds and default rates. Prepayment speed assumptions are
influenced by mortgage interest rate inputs as well as our estimation of
drivers of borrower behavior.  

186   

In
addition to residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) included in the
previous table, we have a small portfolio of commercial MSRs with a fair value
of $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012,
respectively. The nature of our commercial MSRs, which are carried at LOCOM, is
different from our residential MSRs. Prepayment activity on serviced loans does
not significantly impact the value of commercial MSRs because, unlike
residential mortgages, commercial mortgages experience significantly lower
prepayments due to certain contractual restrictions, impacting the borrower s
ability to prepay the mortgage. Additionally, for our commercial MSR portfolio,
we are typically master/primary servicer, but not the special servicer, who is
separately responsible for the servicing and workout of delinquent and
foreclosed loans. It is the special servicer, similar to our role as servicer
of residential mortgage loans, who is affected by higher servicing and
foreclosure costs due to an increase in delinquent and foreclosed loans.
Accordingly, prepayment speeds and costs to service are not key assumptions for
commercial MSRs as they do not significantly impact the valuation. The primary
economic driver impacting the fair value of our commercial MSRs is forward
interest rates, which are derived from market observable yield curves used to
price capital markets instruments. Market interest rates most significantly
affect interest earned on custodial deposit balances. The sensitivity of the
current fair value to an immediate adverse 25% change in the assumption about
interest earned on deposit balances at December 31, 2013, and 2012, results in
a decrease in fair value of $175 million and $139 million, respectively. See
Note 9 for further information on our commercial MSRs.  

  The sensitivities
in the preceding paragraph and table are hypothetical and caution should be
exercised when relying on this data. Changes in value based on variations in
assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the
change in the assumption to the change in value may not be linear. Also, the
effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the value of the other
interests held is calculated independently without changing any other assumptions.
In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in others (for example,
changes in prepayment speed estimates could result in changes in the credit
losses), which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities.  

  The following
table presents information about the principal balances of off-balance sheet
securitized loans, including residential mortgages sold to FNMA, FHLMC, GNMA
and securitizations where servicing is our only form of continuing involvement.
Delinquent loans include loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing
interest as well as nonaccrual loans. In securitizations where servicing is our
only form of continuing involvement, we would only experience a loss if
required to repurchase a delinquent loan due to a breach in representations and
warranties associated with our loan sale or servicing contracts.   

(1)      At December
31, 2013 and 2012, the table includes total loans of $1.3 trillion at both
dates and delinquent loans of $14.0 billion and $17.4 billion, respectively for
FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA. Net charge-offs exclude loans sold to FNMA, FHLMC and
GNMA as we do not service or manage the underlying real estate upon foreclosure
and, as such, do not have access to net charge-off information.  

Note 8:                 Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities                 (continued)              

Transactions with Consolidated VIEs and Secured
Borrowings   

  The following table presents a summary of transfers of financial
assets  
  accounted for as secured
borrowings and involvements with consolidated VIEs.  Consolidated assets  are
presented using GAAP measurement methods, which may include fair value, credit
impairment or other adjustments, and therefore in some instances will differ
from  Total VIE assets.  For VIEs that obtain exposure synthetically through
derivative instruments, the remaining notional amount of the derivative is
included in  Total VIE assets.  On the consolidated balance sheet, we
separately disclose the consolidated assets of certain VIEs     that can only be used to settle the
liabilities of those VIEs.  

In addition to the transactions included in
the previous table, at both December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, we had
approximately $6.0 billion of private placement debt financing issued through a
consolidated VIE. The issuance is classified as long-term debt in our
consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012,
we pledged approximately $6.6 billion and $6.4 billion in loans (principal and
interest eligible to be capitalized), $160 million     and $179 million in available-for-sale securities, and
$180 million and $138 million in cash and cash equivalents to collateralize the
VIE s borrowings, respectively. These assets were not transferred to the VIE,
and accordingly we have excluded the VIE from the previous table.  

  We have raised financing through the
securitization of certain financial assets in transactions with VIEs accounted
for as secured borrowings. We also consolidate VIEs where we are the primary
beneficiary. In certain transactions we provide contractual support in the form
of limited recourse and liquidity to facilitate the remarketing of short-term
securities issued to third party investors. Other than this limited contractual
support, the assets of the VIEs are the sole source of repayment of the securities
held by third parties.  

MUNICIPAL TENDER OPTION BOND SECURITIZATIONS       As part of our normal portfolio investment
activities, we consolidate municipal bond trusts that hold highly rated,
long-term, fixed-rate municipal bonds, the majority of which are rated AA or
better. Our residual interests in these trusts generally allow us to
capture the economics of owning the securities outright, and constructively
make decisions that significantly impact the economic performance of the
municipal bond      

188   

vehicle, primarily by directing the
sale of the municipal bonds owned by the vehicle. In addition, the residual
interest owners have the right to receive benefits and bear losses that are
proportional to owning the underlying municipal bonds in the trusts. The trusts
obtain financing by issuing floating-rate trust certificates that reprice on a
weekly or other basis to third-party investors. Under certain conditions, if we
elect to terminate the trusts and withdraw the underlying assets, the third
party investors are entitled to a small portion of any unrealized gain on the
underlying assets.     We may serve as remarketing agent and/or liquidity provider for the
trusts. The floating-rate investors have the right to tender the certificates
at specified dates, often with as little as seven days  notice. Should we be
unable to remarket the tendered certificates, we are generally obligated to
purchase them at par under standby liquidity facilities unless the bond s
credit rating has declined below investment grade or there has been an event of
default or bankruptcy of the issuer and insurer.  

NONCONFORMING RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOAN
SECURITIZATIONS         We have consolidated certain of our nonconforming residential mortgage
loan securitizations in accordance with consolidation accounting guidance. We
have determined we are the primary beneficiary of these securitizations because
we have the power to direct the most significant activities of the entity
through our role as primary servicer and also hold variable interests that we
have determined to be significant. The nature of our variable interests in
these entities may include beneficial interests issued by the VIE, mortgage
servicing rights and recourse or repurchase reserve liabilities. The beneficial
interests issued by the VIE that we hold include either subordinate or senior
securities held in an amount that we consider potentially significant.  

MULTI-SELLER COMMERCIAL PAPER CONDUIT       In July     2013, we dissolved a multi-seller asset-based commercial paper conduit we
had administered that financed certain client transactions. This conduit was a
bankruptcy remote entity that made loans to, or purchased certificated
interests, generally from SPEs, established by our clients (sellers) and which were
secured by pools of financial assets. The conduit funded itself through the
issuance of highly rated commercial paper to third party investors. We were the
primary beneficiary of the conduit because we had power over the significant
activities of the conduit and had a significant variable interest due to our
liquidity arrangement. In 2013, we redeemed the outstanding commercial paper
issued from our multi-seller conduit to third party investors at par.  

INVESTMENT FUNDS         We have consolidated certain of our
investment funds where we manage the assets of the fund and our interests
absorb a majority of the funds  variability. We consolidate these VIEs because
we have discretion over the management of the assets and are the sole investor
in these funds.  

189   

Note 9:  Mortgage Banking
Activities                                                                                                                                

Mortgage
banking activities, included in the Community Banking and Wholesale Banking
operating segments, consist of residential and commercial mortgage originations,
sale activity and servicing.  

  We apply the amortization method
to commercial MSRs and apply the fair value method to residential MSRs. The
changes in MSRs measured using the fair value method were:  

(1)      The year ended
December 31, 2012, includes $315 million residential MSRs transferred from
amortized MSRs that we elected to carry at fair value effective January 1,
2012.  

  (2)      Primarily represents
prepayment speed changes due to changes in mortgage interest rates, but also
includes other valuation changes due to changes in mortgage interest rates
(such as changes in estimated interest earned on custodial deposit balances).  

  (3)      Includes costs to
service and unreimbursed foreclosure costs.  

  (4)      Reflects discount rate
assumption change, excluding portion attributable to changes in mortgage
interest rates; the year ended December 31, 2012, change     reflects
increased capital return requirements from market participants.  

  (5)      Represents changes
driven by other valuation model inputs or assumptions including prepayment
speed estimation changes and other assumption updates. Prepayment speed
estimation changes are influenced by observed changes in borrower behavior that
occur independent of interest rate changes.  

  (6)      Represents changes due
to collection/realization of expected cash flows over time.  

The changes in amortized MSRs were:  

(1)      The year ended December
31, 2012, is net of $350 million ($313 million after valuation allowance) of
residential MSRs that we elected to carry at fair     value
effective January 1, 2012. A cumulative adjustment of $2 million to fair value
was recorded in retained earnings at January 1, 2012.  

  (2)      Includes $350 million     in
residential amortized MSRs at December 31, 2011. For the year ended December
31, 2011, the residential MSR     amortization was $(50) million.      

  (3)      Commercial amortized
MSRs are evaluated for impairment purposes by the following risk strata: agency
(GSEs) and non-agency. There was no valuation allowance recorded for the
periods presented on the commercial amortized MSRs. Residential amortized MSRs
are evaluated for impairment purposes by     the
following risk strata: mortgages sold to GSEs (FHLMC and FNMA) and mortgages
sold to GNMA, each by interest rate stratifications. A valuation     allowance
of $37 million  
  was
recorded on the residential amortized MSRs for the year     ended
December 31, 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2012, valuation     allowance
of $37 million for residential MSRs was reversed upon election to carry at fair
value.  

  (4)      Includes fair value of
$316 million  
  in
residential amortized MSRs and $1,440 million in commercial amortized MSRs at December
31, 2011. The  
  balances
at December 31, 2013 and 2012, are all commercial amortized MSRs.  

190   

We
present the components of our managed servicing portfolio in the following
table at unpaid principal balance for loans serviced and subserviced for others
and at book value for owned loans serviced.  

The components of mortgage banking noninterest income
were:  

(1)      Primarily
associated with foreclosure expenses and certain interest costs.  

  (2)      Refer
to the changes in fair value of MSRs table in this Note for more detail.  

  (3)      Represents
changes due to collection/realization of expected cash flows over time.  

  (4)      Represents
results from free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the risk
of changes in fair value of MSRs. See Note 16   Free-Standing Derivatives for
additional discussion and detail.  

191   

Note 9:                 Mortgage Banking Activities                 (continued)              

The table below
summarizes the changes in our liability for mortgage loan repurchase
losses. This liability is in  Accrued expenses and other liabilities  in
our consolidated balance sheet and the provision for repurchase losses reduces
net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities. Because the level of mortgage loan
repurchase losses depends upon economic factors, investor demand strategies and
other external conditions that may change over the life of the underlying
loans, the level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is
difficult to estimate and requires considerable management judgment. We maintain
regular contact with the GSEs, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), and
other significant investors to monitor their repurchase demand practices and
issues as part of our process to update our repurchase liability estimate as
new information becomes available. The Company reached settlements with both FHLMC     and FNMA in 2013,     that resolved substantially all repurchase liabilities
associated with loans sold to FHLMC prior to January 1, 2009 and loans sold to
FNMA that were originated prior to January 1, 2009.  

  Because of the uncertainty in the various
estimates underlying the mortgage repurchase liability, there is a range of
losses in excess of the recorded mortgage repurchase liability that is
reasonably possible. The estimate of the range of possible loss for
representations and warranties does not represent a probable loss, and is based
on currently available information, significant judgment, and a number of
assumptions that are subject to change. The high end of this range of
reasonably possible losses in excess of our recorded liability was $896 million
at December 31, 2013, and was determined based upon modifying the assumptions     (particularly to assume significant changes
in investor repurchase demand practices)     utilized in our best estimate of probable
loss to reflect what we believe to be the high end of reasonably possible
adverse assumptions.  

(1)      Results from such
factors as changes in investor demand and mortgage insurer practices, credit
deterioration and changes in the financial stability of correspondent lenders.  

  (2)      Year ended December
31, 2013, reflects $746 million and $508 million as a result of the settlements
reached with FHLMC and FNMA, respectively, that resolved substantially all
repurchase liabilities associated with loans sold to FHLMC prior to January 1,
2009 and loans sold to FNMA that were originated prior to January 1, 2009.  

192   

Note 10:  Intangible Assets                                                                                                                                                  

  The gross carrying
value of intangible assets and accumulated amortization was:  

(1)      Excludes
fully amortized intangible assets.  

  (2)      See
Note 9  
  for
additional information on MSRs.  

The following table provides the current year  
  and estimated future
amortization expense for amortized intangible assets. We based our projections of
amortization expense shown below on existing asset balances at December 31,
2013.     Future
amortization expense may vary from these projections.  

For our goodwill impairment analysis, we allocate
all of the goodwill to the individual operating segments. We identify reporting
units that are one level below an operating segment (referred to as a
component), and distinguish these reporting units based on how the segments and
components are managed, taking into consideration the economic characteristics,
nature of the products and customers of the components. At the time we acquire
a business, we allocate goodwill to applicable reporting units based on their relative
fair value,   and if we have a significant business
reorganization, we may reallocate the goodwill  . See Note 24 for further
information on management reporting.  

  The following table shows the allocation of goodwill
to our reportable operating segments for purposes of goodwill impairment
testing.  

193   

Note 11:  Deposits                                                                                                                                                                 

Time
certificates of deposit (CDs) and other time deposits issued by domestic and
foreign offices totaled $117.4 billion and $90.1 billion at December
31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Substantially all of these deposits were
interest bearing. The contractual maturities of these deposits are presented in
the following table.  

Of these deposits, the amount of domestic time
deposits with a denomination of $100,000 or more was $16.6 billion and
$23.7 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The contractual
maturities of these deposits are presented in the following table.  

Time CDs and other time deposits issued by foreign
offices with a denomination of $100,000 or more were $15.3 billion and
$11.7 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  

  Demand deposit overdrafts of $554 million and
$806 million were included as loan balances at December 31, 2013 and 2012,
respectively.  

Note
12:  Short-Term Borrowings                                                                                                                                      

The table below shows selected
information for short-term borrowings, which predominantly mature in less than
30 days.     We pledge certain financial instruments that we own to
collateralize repurchase agreements and other securities financings. For
additional information, see the  Pledged Assets  section of   Note 14  .   

N/A- Not
applicable  

  (1)      Highest month-end
balance in each of the last three years was May 2013, June 2012 and March     2011.    

  (2)      Highest month-end
balance in each of the last three years was March     2013, September 2012 and     April 2011.  

  (3)      Highest month-end
balance in each of the last three years was March 2013, December     2012 and     December 2011.  

194   

Note
13: Long-Term Debt                                                                                                                                                   

We issue long-term debt denominated in multiple
currencies, predominantly in U.S. dollars. Our issuances have both fixed and
floating interest rates. As a part of our overall interest rate risk management
strategy, we often use derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate
risk. We also use derivatives to manage our exposure to foreign currency risk. As
a result, the long-term debt presented below is primarily hedged in a fair
value or cash flow hedge relationship. See Note 16 for further information on
qualifying hedge contracts.  

  Following is a summary of our long-term debt
carrying values, reflecting unamortized debt discounts and premiums, and
purchase accounting adjustments, where applicable. The interest rates displayed
represent the range of contractual rates in effect at December 31, 2013. These
interest rates do not include the effects of any associated derivatives
designated in a hedge accounting relationship.  

195   

Note 13:                 Long-Term Debt                 (continued)              

(1)      Primarily consists of
long-term notes where the performance of the note is linked to an embedded
equity, commodity, or currency index, or basket of indices accounted for
separately from the note as a free-standing derivative. For information on
embedded derivatives, see Note 16   Free-standing derivatives. In addition, a
major portion consists of zero coupon callable notes where interest is paid as
part of the final redemption amount.  

  (2)      Includes fixed-rate
subordinated notes issued by the Parent at a discount of $140 million in fourth
quarter 2013 to effect a modification of Wells Fargo Bank, NA notes. These
notes are carried at their par amount on the balance sheet of the Parent
presented in Note 25.  

  (3)      Represents junior
subordinated debentures held by unconsolidated wholly-owned trusts formed for
the sole purpose of issuing trust preferred securities.     See Note 8 for
additional information on our trust preferred security structures.  

  (4)      Represents
floating-rate extendible notes where holders of the notes may elect to extend
the contractual maturity of all or a portion of the principal amount on a
periodic basis.  

  (5)      At December 31, 2013,
Federal Home Loan Bank advances are secured by residential loan collateral.     Outstanding advances
at December 31, 2012, were secured by investment securities and residential
loan collateral.  

  (6)      For additional
information on VIEs, see Note 8.  

  (7)      Primarily related to
securitizations and secured borrowings, see Note 8.      

The aggregate carrying value of long-term debt that
matures (based on contractual payment dates) as of December 31, 2013, in each of the following
five years and thereafter, is presented in the following table.  

As part of our long-term and
short-term borrowing arrangements, we are subject to various financial and
operational covenants. Some of the agreements under which debt has been issued
have provisions that may limit the merger or sale of certain subsidiary banks
and the issuance of capital     stock or convertible securities by
certain subsidiary banks. At December 31, 2013, we were in compliance with all
the covenants.  

196   

Note
14:  Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral                                                                                                       

Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us
to make payments to a guaranteed party based on an event or a change in an
underlying asset, liability, rate or index. Guarantees are generally in the
form of standby letters of credit, securities lending and other
indemnifications, liquidity agreements, written put options, recourse
obligations, residual value guarantees, and contingent consideration. The
following table shows carrying value, maximum exposure to loss on our
guarantees and the related non-investment grade amounts.  

(1)      Total maximum exposure
to loss includes direct pay letters of credit (DPLCs) of $16.8     billion and $18.5
billion at  
  December      31, 2013 and     December 31, 2012,
respectively. We issue DPLCs to provide credit enhancements for certain bond
issuances. Beneficiaries (bond trustees) may draw upon these instruments to
make scheduled principal and interest payments, redeem all outstanding bonds
because a default event has occurred, or for other reasons as permitted by the
agreement.  
  We also
originate multipurpose lending commitments under which borrowers have the
option to draw on the facility in one of several forms, including as a standby
letter of credit. Total maximum exposure to loss includes the portion of these
facilities for which we have issued standby letters of credit under the
commitments.  

  (2)      Certain of these agreements
included in this table are related to off-balance sheet entities and,
accordingly, are also disclosed in Note 8.  

  (3)      Written put options,
which are in the form of derivatives, are also included in the derivative
disclosures in Note 16.  

Maximum exposure to loss  and
 Non-investment grade      are      required disclosures under GAAP.
Non-investment grade represents those guarantees on which we have a higher risk
of being required to perform under the terms of the guarantee. If the
underlying assets under the guarantee are non-investment grade (that is, an
external rating that is below investment grade or an internal credit default
grade that is equivalent to a below investment grade external rating), we
consider the risk of performance to be high. Internal credit default grades are
determined based upon the same credit policies that we use to evaluate the risk
of payment or performance when making loans and other extensions of credit. These
credit policies are further described in Note 6.  

  Maximum exposure to loss represents the
estimated loss that would be incurred under an assumed hypothetical
circumstance, despite what we believe is its extremely remote possibility,
where the value of our interests and any associated collateral declines to
zero. Maximum exposure to loss estimates in the table above do not reflect
economic hedges or collateral we could use to offset or recover losses we may
incur under our guarantee agreements. Accordingly, this required disclosure is
not an indication of expected loss. We believe the carrying value, which is
either fair value for derivative related products or the allowance for lending
related commitments, is more representative of our exposure to loss than
maximum exposure to loss.   

Standby letters of credit       We issue standby
letters of credit, which include performance and financial guarantees, for
customers in connection with contracts between our customers and third parties.
Standby letters of credit are agreements where we are obligated to make payment
to a third party on behalf of a customer in the event the customer fails to
meet their contractual obligations. We consider the      

197   

Note 14:                 Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral                 (continued)              

credit
risk in standby letters of credit and commercial and similar letters of credit
in determining the allowance for credit losses. Standby letters of credit
include direct pay letters of credit we issue to provide credit enhancements
for certain bond issuances.  

Securities lending and other
indemnifications       As a
securities lending agent, we lend debt and equity securities from participating
institutional clients  portfolios to third-party borrowers. These arrangements
are for an indefinite period of time whereby we indemnify our clients against
default by the borrower in returning these lent securities. This indemnity is
supported by collateral received from the borrowers and is generally in the
form of cash or highly liquid securities that are marked to market daily. There
was $346  
  million at December 31, 2013
and $443 million at December 31, 2012, in collateral supporting loaned
securities with values of $337 million and $436 million, respectively.  

  We use certain third party clearing agents
to clear and settle transactions on behalf of some of our institutional
brokerage customers. We indemnify the clearing agents against loss that could
occur for non-performance by our customers on transactions that are not
sufficiently collateralized. Transactions subject to the indemnifications may
include customer obligations related to the settlement of margin accounts and
short positions, such as written call options and securities borrowing
transactions. Outstanding customer obligations were $769 million and $579
million and the related collateral was $3.7 billion and $3.1 billion at December
31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, respectively. Our estimate of maximum exposure
to loss, which requires judgment regarding the range and likelihood of future
events, was $2.9     billion as
of December 31, 2013, and $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2012.  

  We enter into other types of indemnification
agreements in the ordinary course of business under which we agree to indemnify
third parties against any damages, losses and expenses incurred in connection
with legal and other proceedings arising from relationships or transactions
with us. These relationships or transactions include those arising from service
as a director or officer of the Company, underwriting agreements relating to
our securities, acquisition agreements and various other business transactions
or arrangements.     Because the
extent of our obligations under these agreements depends entirely upon the
occurrence of future events,     we
are unable to determine our potential future liability under these agreements.
We do, however, record a liability for residential mortgage loans that we
expect to  
  repurchase pursuant to various
representations and warranties. See Note 9 for additional information on the
liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses.  

Liquidity agreements       We      provide liquidity to certain off-balance
sheet entities that hold securitized fixed-rate municipal bonds and consumer or
commercial assets that are partially funded with the issuance of money market
and other short-term notes. See Note 8 for     additional information on securitizations and VIEs.  

Written put options       Written put
options are contracts that give the counterparty the right to sell to us an
underlying instrument held by the counterparty at a specified price, and
include options, floors, caps and credit default swaps. These written put
option contracts generally permit net settlement. While these derivative
transactions expose us to risk in the event the option is exercised, we manage
this risk by entering into offsetting trades or by taking short positions in
the underlying instrument. We offset substantially all put options written to
customers with purchased options. Additionally, for certain of these contracts,
we require the counterparty to pledge the underlying instrument as collateral
for the transaction. Our ultimate obligation under written put options is based
on future market conditions and is only quantifiable at settlement. See Note 16
for additional information regarding written derivative contracts.   

Loans AND MHFS SOLD with
recourse       In
certain loan sales or securitizations, we provide recourse     to the buyer whereby we are required to
indemnify the buyer for any loss on the loan up to par value plus accrued
interest. We provide recourse, predominantly to the GSEs, on loans sold under various
programs and arrangements. Primarily all of these programs and arrangements
require that we share in the loans  credit exposure for their remaining life by
providing recourse to the GSE, up to 33.33% of actual losses incurred on a
pro-rata basis, in the event of borrower default. Under the remaining recourse
programs and arrangements, if certain events occur within a specified period of
time from transfer date, we have to provide limited recourse to the buyer to
indemnify them for losses incurred for the remaining life of the loans. The
maximum exposure to loss reported in the accompanying table represents the
outstanding principal balance of the loans sold or securitized that are subject
to recourse provisions or the maximum losses per the contractual agreements.
However, we believe the likelihood of loss of the entire balance due to these
recourse agreements is remote and amounts paid can be recovered in whole or in
part from the sale of collateral. During 2013 and 2012 we repurchased $33
million  
  and $26 million, respectively,
of loans associated with these agreements. We also provide representation and
warranty guarantees on loans sold under the various recourse programs and
arrangements. Our loss exposure relative to these guarantees is separately
considered and provided for, as necessary, in determination of our liability
for loan repurchases due to breaches of representation and warranties. See Note
9 for additional information on the liability for mortgage loan repurchase
losses.  

198   

Contingent consideration            In connection with certain brokerage, asset management,
insurance agency and other acquisitions we have made, the terms of the
acquisition agreements provide for deferred payments or additional
consideration, based on certain performance targets.   

Other Guarantees       We are members of
exchanges and clearing houses that we use to clear our trades and those of our
customers. It is common that all members in these organizations are required to
collectively guarantee the performance of other members. Our obligations under the
guarantees are based on either a fixed amount or a multiple of the collateral
we are required to maintain with these organizations. We have not recorded a liability
for these arrangements as of the dates presented in the previous table because
we believe the likelihood of loss is remote.  

  We also have contingent performance
arrangements related to various customer relationships and lease transactions.
We are required to pay the counterparties to these agreements if third parties
default on certain obligations.  

Pledged
Assets    

  As
part of our liquidity management strategy, we pledge assets to secure trust and
public deposits, borrowings and letters of credit from the FHLB and FRB,
securities sold under agreements to repurchase (repurchase agreements), and for
other purposes as required or permitted by law or insurance statutory
requirements. The types of collateral we pledge include securities issued by
federal agencies, government-sponsored entities (GSEs), domestic and foreign
companies and various commercial and consumer loans. The following table
provides the total carrying amount of pledged assets by asset type, of which
substantially all are pursuant to agreements that do not permit the secured
party to sell or repledge  
  the collateral. The   table     excludes pledged     consolidated VIE assets of $8.1 billion and $14.6
billion at December     31, 2013,
and December 31, 2012, respectively, which can only be used to settle the
liabilities of those entities. The table also excludes $15.3 billion and $22.3 billion
in assets pledged in transactions accounted for as secured borrowings at December
31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. See Note 8     for additional information on consolidated
VIE assets and secured borrowings.  

199   

Note 14:                 Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral                 (continued)              

Offsetting of Resale and Repurchase Agreements and
Securities Borrowing and Lending Agreements   

  The table below presents resale and repurchase agreements subject to
master repurchase agreements (MRA) and securities borrowing and lending agreements
subject to master securities lending agreements (MSLA). We account for
transactions subject to these agreements as collateralized financings and those
with a single counterparty are presented net on our balance sheet, provided certain
criteria are met that permit balance sheet netting. Most transactions subject
to these agreements do not meet those criteria and thus are not eligible for
balance sheet netting.  

  Collateral we pledged consists of non-cash instruments,
such as securities or loans, and is not netted on the balance sheet against the
related collateralized liability. Collateral we received includes securities or
loans and is not recognized on our balance sheet. Collateral received or pledged
may be increased or decreased over time to maintain certain contractual
thresholds as the assets underlying each arrangement fluctuate in value. Generally,
these agreements require collateral to exceed the asset or liability recognized
on the balance sheet. The following table includes the amount of collateral
pledged or received related to exposures subject to enforceable MRAs or MSLAs.
While these agreements are typically over-collateralized,     U.S. GAAP requires disclosure in this table to limit
the amount of such collateral to the amount of the related recognized asset or
liability     for      each counterparty.   

  In addition to the amounts included in the table below,
we also have balance sheet netting related to derivatives that is disclosed
within Note 16.   

Dec.
  31,    

Dec.
  31,   

(in millions)  

2013    

2012   

Assets:   

Resale and securities borrowing agreements   

Gross amounts recognized  

$   

38,635    

45,847   

Gross amounts offset in consolidated balance sheet (1)  

(2,817)    

(2,561)   

Net amounts in consolidated balance sheet (2)  

35,818    

43,286   

Noncash collateral not recognized in consolidated balance sheet
  (3)  

(35,768)    

(42,920)   

Net amount (4)   

$   

50    

366   

Liabilities:   

Repurchase and securities lending agreements   

Gross amounts recognized  

$   

38,032    

35,876   

Gross amounts offset in consolidated balance sheet (1)  

(2,817)    

(2,561)   

Net amounts in consolidated balance sheet (5)  

35,215    

33,315   

Noncash collateral pledged but not netted in consolidated
  balance sheet (6)  

(34,770)    

(33,050)   

Net amount (7)   

$   

445    

265   

(1)  

Represents recognized amount of resale and repurchase agreements
  with counterparties subject to enforceable MRAs or MSLAs that have been
  offset in the consolidated balance sheet.  

(2)  

At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, includes $25.7
  billion and $33.8 billion, respectively, classified on our consolidated
  balance sheet in Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale
  agreements and other short-term investments and $10.1 billion and $9.5
  billion, respectively, in Loans.  

(3)  

Represents the fair value of non-cash collateral we have
  received under enforceable MRAs or MSLAs, limited for table presentation
  purposes to the amount of the recognized asset due from each counterparty. At
  December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we have received total collateral
  with a fair value of $43.3 billion and $46.6 billion, respectively, all of
  which, we have the right to sell or repledge. These amounts include
  securities we have sold or repledged to others with a fair value of $23.8
  billion at December 31, 2013 and $29.7 billion at December 31, 2012.  

(4)  

Represents the amount of our exposure that is not collateralized
  and/or is not subject to an enforceable MRA or MSLA.  

(5)  

Amount is classified in Short-term borrowings on our
  consolidated balance sheet.  

(6)  

Represents the fair value of non-cash collateral we have
  pledged, related to enforceable MRAs or MSLAs, limited for table presentation
  purposes to the amount of the recognized liability owed to each counterparty.
  At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we have pledged total collateral
  with a fair value of $39.0 billion and $36.4 billion, respectively, of which,
  the counterparty does not have the right to sell or repledge $10.0 billion as
  of December 31, 2013 and $9.1 billion as of December 31, 2012.   

(7)  

Represents the amount of our exposure that is not covered by
  pledged collateral and/or is not subject to an enforceable MRA or MSLA.  

200   

Note
15:  Legal Actions                                                                                                                                                        

Wells Fargo and certain of our subsidiaries
are involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings
concerning matters arising from the conduct of our business activities. These
proceedings include actions brought against Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries
with respect to corporate related matters and transactions in which Wells Fargo
and/or our subsidiaries were involved. In addition, Wells Fargo and our
subsidiaries may be requested to provide information or otherwise cooperate
with government authorities in the conduct of investigations of other persons
or industry groups.  

  Although there
can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome, Wells Fargo and/or our
subsidiaries have generally denied, or believe we have a meritorious defense
and will deny, liability in all significant litigation pending against us,
including the matters described below, and we intend to defend vigorously each
case, other than matters we describe as having settled. Reserves are
established for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become
probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of
resolving legal claims may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts
reserved for those claims.  

FHA
INSURANCE LITIGATION    
  On October 9, 2012, the United
States filed a complaint, captioned    United States of America v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A.   , in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
York. The complaint makes claims with respect to Wells Fargo s Federal Housing
Administration (FHA) lending program for the period 2001 to 2010. The complaint
alleges, among other allegations, that Wells Fargo improperly certified certain
FHA mortgage loans for United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) insurance that did not qualify for the program, and therefore
Wells Fargo should not have received insurance proceeds from HUD when some of
the loans later defaulted. The complaint further alleges Wells Fargo knew some
of the mortgages did not qualify for insurance and did not disclose the
deficiencies to HUD before making insurance claims. On December 1, 2012, Wells
Fargo filed a motion in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia
seeking to enforce a release of Wells Fargo given by the United States, which
was denied on February 12, 2013. On April 11, 2013, Wells Fargo appealed the
decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, with
appellate briefing completed on November 26, 2013. On December 14, 2012, the
United States filed an amended complaint. On January 16, 2013, Wells Fargo
filed a motion in the Southern District of New York to dismiss the amended
complaint. On September 24, 2013, the Court entered an order denying the motion
with respect to the government s federal statutory claims and granting in part,
and denying in part, the motion with respect to the government s common law claims.     On January 10, 2014, the United States filed
a second amended complaint.  

INTERCHANGE LITIGATION         Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo  
Company, Wachovia Bank, N.A. and Wachovia Corporation are named as defendants,
separately or in combination, in putative class actions filed on behalf of a
plaintiff class of merchants and in individual actions brought by individual
merchants with regard to the interchange fees associated with Visa and
MasterCard payment card transactions. These actions have been consolidated in
the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. Visa, MasterCard
and several banks and bank holding companies are named as defendants in various
of these actions. The amended and consolidated complaint asserts claims against
defendants based on alleged violations of federal and state antitrust laws and
seeks damages, as well as injunctive relief. Plaintiff merchants allege that
Visa, MasterCard and payment card issuing banks unlawfully colluded to set
interchange rates. Plaintiffs also allege that enforcement of certain Visa and
MasterCard rules and alleged tying and bundling of services offered to
merchants are anticompetitive. Wells Fargo and Wachovia, along with other
defendants and entities, are parties to Loss and Judgment Sharing Agreements,
which provide that they, along with other entities, will share, based on a
formula, in any losses from the Interchange Litigation. On July 13, 2012, Visa,
MasterCard and the financial institution defendants, including Wells Fargo,
signed a memorandum of understanding with plaintiff merchants to resolve the
consolidated class actions and reached a separate settlement in principle of
the consolidated individual actions. The proposed settlement payments by all
defendants in the consolidated class and individual actions total approximately
$6.6 billion. The class settlement also provides for the distribution to class
merchants of 10 basis points of default interchange across all credit rate
categories for a period of eight consecutive months. The Court granted final
approval of the settlement, which is proceeding. Merchants have filed several
 opt-out  actions.  

MARYLAND
MORTGAGE LENDING LITIGATION         On
December 26, 2007, a class action complaint captioned    Denise Minter, et
al., v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., et al.,    was filed in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Maryland. The complaint alleges that Wells Fargo and
others violated provisions of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and
other laws by conducting mortgage lending business improperly through a general
partnership, Prosperity Mortgage Company. The complaint asserts that Prosperity
Mortgage Company was not a legitimate affiliated business and instead operated
to conceal Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. s role in the loans at issue. A plaintiff
class of borrowers who received a mortgage loan from Prosperity Mortgage
Company that was funded by Prosperity Mortgage Company s line of credit with
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. from 1993 to May 31, 2012, had been certified.
Prior to trial, the Court narrowed the class action to borrowers who were
referred to Prosperity Mortgage Company by Wells Fargo s partner and whose
loans were transferred to Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. from 1993 to May 31,
2012. On May 6, 2013, the case went to trial. On June 6, 2013, the
jury returned a verdict in favor of all defendants, including Wells Fargo. The
plaintiffs have appealed.  

  On July 8, 2008, a class action complaint
captioned    Stacey and Bradley Petry, et al., v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A   .,    et
al   ., was filed. The complaint alleges that Wells Fargo and others violated
the Maryland Finder s Fee Act in the closing of mortgage loans in Maryland. On
March 13, 2013, the Court held the plaintiff class did not have sufficient
evidence to proceed to trial, which was previously set for March 18, 2013.
On June 20, 2013, the Court entered judgment in favor of the defendants.
The plaintiffs have appealed.  

MORTGAGE RELATED REGULATORY INVESTIGATIONS         Government agencies continue investigations
or examinations of certain mortgage related practices of Wells Fargo and
predecessor institutions. Wells Fargo, for itself and for predecessor
institutions, has      

201   

Note 15:                 Legal Actions                 (continued)              

responded, and continues to
respond, to requests from government agencies seeking information regarding the
origination, underwriting and securitization of residential mortgages,
including sub-prime mortgages.  

ORDER OF POSTING LITIGATION         A series of putative class actions have been filed
against Wachovia Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as well as many other
banks, challenging the high to low order in which the banks post debit card
transactions to consumer deposit accounts. There are currently several such
cases pending against Wells Fargo Bank (including the Wachovia Bank cases to
which Wells Fargo succeeded), most of which have been consolidated in
multi-district litigation proceedings in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of Florida. The bank defendants moved to compel these cases
to arbitration under recent Supreme Court authority. On November 22, 2011,
the Judge denied the motion. The bank defendants appealed the decision to the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. On October 26, 2012, the
Eleventh Circuit affirmed the District Court s denial of the motion. Wells
Fargo renewed its motion to compel arbitration with respect to the unnamed
putative class members. On April 8, 2013, the District Court denied the
motion. Wells Fargo has appealed the decision to the Eleventh Circuit.  

  On August 10, 2010, the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of California issued an order in Gutierrez v.
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., a case that was not consolidated in the multi-district
proceedings, enjoining the bank s use of the high to low posting method for
debit card transactions with respect to the plaintiff class of California
depositors, directing the bank to establish a different posting methodology and
ordering remediation of approximately $203     million. On October 26, 2010, a final
judgment was entered in Gutierrez. On October 28, 2010, Wells Fargo
appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. On
December 26, 2012, the Ninth Circuit reversed the order requiring Wells
Fargo to change its order of posting and vacated the portion of the order
granting remediation of approximately $203 million on the grounds of federal
preemption. The Ninth Circuit affirmed the District Court s finding that Wells
Fargo violated a California state law prohibition on fraudulent representations
and remanded the case to the District Court for further proceedings.     On August 5, 2013, the District Court
entered a judgment against Wells Fargo in the approximate amount of $203
million, together with post-judgment interest thereon from October 25, 2010,
and, effective as of July 15, 2013, enjoined Wells Fargo from making or
disseminating additional misrepresentations about its order of posting of
transactions. On August 7, 2013, Wells Fargo appealed the judgment to the Ninth
Circuit.  

SECURITIES LENDING LITIGATION         Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is involved in five
separate pending actions brought by securities lending customers of Wells Fargo
and Wachovia Bank in various courts. In general, each of the cases alleges that
Wells Fargo violated fiduciary and contractual duties by investing collateral
for loaned securities in investments that suffered losses. One of the cases,
filed on March 27, 2012, is composed of a class of Wells Fargo securities
lending customers in a case captioned    City of Farmington Hills Employees
Retirement System v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.      The class action is pending in the U.S. District Court for the District
of Minnesota.  

OUTLOOK         When establishing a liability for contingent litigation
losses, the Company determines a range of potential losses for each matter that
is both probable and estimable, and records the amount it considers to be the
best estimate within the range. The high end of the range of reasonably
possible potential litigation losses in excess of the Company s liability for
probable and estimable losses was $951     million as of December 31, 2013. For these matters and others where an
unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible but not probable, there may be a
range of possible losses in excess of the established liability that cannot be
estimated. Based on information currently available, advice of counsel,
available insurance coverage and established reserves, Wells Fargo believes
that the eventual outcome of the actions against Wells Fargo and/or its
subsidiaries, including the matters described above, will not, individually or
in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Wells Fargo s consolidated
financial position. However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it
is possible that the ultimate resolution of those matters, if unfavorable, may
be material to Wells Fargo s results of operations for any particular period.  

Note 16: 
Derivatives                                                                                                                                                            

We primarily use derivatives to manage exposure to
market risk,  
  including interest rate risk,
credit risk and foreign currency risk, and to assist customers with their risk management
objectives.  
  We designate derivatives either
as hedging instruments in a qualifying hedge accounting relationship (fair
value or cash flow hedge) or as free-standing derivatives. Free-standing
derivatives include economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting
and derivatives held for customer accommodation or other     trading purposes.  

  Our asset/liability management approach to
interest rate, foreign currency and certain other risks includes the use of
derivatives. Such derivatives are typically designated as fair value or cash
flow hedges, or economic hedges. This helps minimize significant, unplanned
fluctuations in earnings, fair values of assets and liabilities, and cash flows
caused by interest rate, foreign currency and other     market value volatility. This approach involves
modifying the repricing characteristics of certain assets and liabilities so
that changes in interest rates, foreign currency and other     exposures do not have a significantly
adverse effect on the net interest margin, cash flows and earnings. As a result
of fluctuations in these exposures, hedged assets and liabilities will gain or
lose market value. In a fair value or economic hedge, the effect of this
unrealized gain or loss will generally be offset by the gain or loss on the
derivatives linked to the hedged assets and liabilities. In a cash flow hedge, where
we manage the variability of cash payments due to interest rate fluctuations by
the effective use of derivatives linked to hedged assets and liabilities, the
unrealized gain or loss on the derivatives or the hedged asset or liability is
generally reflected in other comprehensive income and not in earnings.  

  We also offer various derivatives, including
interest rate, commodity, equity, credit and foreign exchange contracts, to our
customers as part of our trading businesses but usually offset our exposure
from such contracts by entering into other financial contracts. These
derivative transactions are conducted in an effort to help customers manage
their market price risks. The customer accommodations and any offsetting derivative
contracts are treated as      

202   

free-standing derivatives.
To a much lesser extent, we take positions executed for our own account based
on market expectations or to benefit from price differentials between financial
instruments and markets. Additionally, free-standing derivatives include
embedded derivatives that are required to be accounted for separately from
their host contracts.  

  The following table presents the total
notional or contractual amounts and fair values for our derivatives. Derivative
transactions can be measured in terms of the notional amount, but this amount
is not recorded on the balance sheet and is not, when viewed in isolation, a
meaningful measure of the risk profile of the instruments. The notional amount
is generally not exchanged, but is used only as the basis on which interest and
other payments are determined. Derivatives designated as qualifying hedge contracts     and free-standing derivatives (economic
hedges) are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value in other assets or
other liabilities. Customer accommodation, trading and other free-standing
derivatives are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value in trading assets,
other assets or other liabilities.  

(1)      Notional amounts
presented exclude $1.9 billion at     December 31, 2013, and $4.7     billion at December
31,     2012, of certain
derivatives that are combined for designation as a hedge on a single
instrument.  

  (2)      Includes free-standing
derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value
of residential MSRs, MHFS, loans, derivative loan commitments and other
interests held.  

  (3)      Represents balance
sheet netting of derivative asset and liability balances, and related cash
collateral. See the next table in this Note for further information.  

The following table provides information on
the gross fair values of derivative assets and liabilities, the balance sheet
netting adjustments and the resulting net fair value amount recorded on our
balance sheet, as well as the non-cash collateral associated with such arrangements.
We execute substantially all of our derivative transactions under master
netting arrangements. We reflect all derivative balances and related cash
collateral subject to enforceable master netting arrangements on a net basis
within the balance sheet.     The
 Gross amounts recognized  column in the following table include     $59.8 billion and $66.1 billion of gross
derivative assets and liabilities, respectively, at December 31, 2013, and     $68.9 billion and $75.8     billion, respectively, at December 31, 2012,
with counterparties subject to enforceable master netting arrangements that are
carried on the balance sheet net of offsetting amounts.     The remaining gross derivative assets and liabilities
of $12.9 billion and $7.3     billion,
respectively, at December 31, 2013 and $17.0 billion and $7.3 billion,
respectively, at December 31, 2012, include those with counterparties subject
to master netting arrangements for which we have not assessed the
enforceability because they are
with counterparties where we do not currently have positions to offset, those
subject to master netting arrangements where we have not been able to confirm
the enforceability and those not subject to master netting arrangements. As
such,we do not net derivative balances or collateral within the balance sheet
for these counterparties.  

  We determine the balance sheet netting
adjustments based on the terms specified within each master netting
arrangement. We disclose the balance sheet netting amounts within the column
titled  Gross amounts offset in consolidated balance sheet.  Balance sheet
netting adjustments are determined at the counterparty level for which there      

203   

Note 16:                 Derivatives      

          (continued)              

may be multiple contract types. For disclosure purposes,
we allocate these adjustments to the contract type for each counterparty proportionally
based upon the  Gross amounts recognized  by counterparty. As a result, the net
amounts disclosed by contract type     may not represent the actual exposure upon settlement of the contracts.  

Balance sheet netting does not include
non-cash collateral     that we     pledge.      For disclosure purposes, we present these amounts in
the column titled  Gross amounts not offset in consolidated balance sheet
(Disclosure-only netting)  within the      table. We determine and allocate the Disclosure-only netting amounts in
the same manner as balance sheet netting amounts.  

  The  Net amounts  column within the following
table represents the aggregate of our net exposure to each counterparty after
considering the balance sheet and Disclosure-only netting adjustments. We
manage derivative exposure by monitoring the credit risk associated with each
counterparty using counterparty specific credit risk limits, using master
netting arrangements and obtaining collateral. Derivative contracts executed in
over-the-counter markets include bilateral contractual arrangements that are
not cleared through a central clearing organization but are typically subject to
master netting arrangements. The percentage of our     bilateral derivative transactions outstanding at period
end in such markets, based on gross fair value, is provided within the following
table. Other derivative contracts executed in over-the-counter or
exchange-traded markets are settled through a central clearing organization and
are excluded from this percentage. In addition to the netting amounts included
in the table, we also have balance sheet netting related to resale and repurchase
agreements that are disclosed within Note 14.  

204   

205   

Note 16:                 Derivatives      

          (continued)              

Fair Value Hedges   

  We use interest rate swaps to
convert certain of our fixed-rate long-term debt to floating rates to hedge our
exposure to interest rate risk. We also enter into cross-currency swaps,
cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward contracts to hedge our exposure
to foreign currency risk and interest rate risk associated with the issuance of
non-U.S. dollar denominated long-term debt. In addition,   we use interest rate swaps, cross-currency
swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward contracts to hedge
against changes in fair value of certain investments in available-for-sale debt
securities due to changes in interest rates, foreign currency rates, or both. We
also use interest rate swaps to hedge against changes in fair value for certain
mortgages held for sale.   The entire
derivative gain or loss is included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness
for all fair value hedge relationships, except for those involving foreign-currency
denominated available-for-sale securities and long-term debt hedged with foreign
currency forward derivatives for which the time value component of the
derivative gain or loss related to the changes in the difference between the
spot and forward price is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.  

  We use statistical regression analysis to
assess hedge effectiveness, both at inception of the hedging relationship and
on an ongoing basis. The regression analysis involves regressing the periodic
change in fair value of the hedging instrument against the periodic changes in
fair value of the asset or liability being hedged due to changes in the hedged
risk(s). The assessment includes an evaluation of the quantitative measures of
the regression results used to validate the conclusion of high effectiveness.  

  The following table
shows the net gains (losses) recognized in the income statement related to
derivatives in fair value hedging relationships.  

(1)      Included
$(5) million, $(9) million and $53 million, respectively, for years ended
December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 of the time value component recognized as net
interest income (expense) on forward derivatives hedging foreign currency     available-for-sale      securities
and long-term debt that were excluded from the assessment of hedge
effectiveness.  

206   

Cash Flow Hedges   

  We hedge floating-rate debt
against future interest rate increases by using interest rate swaps, caps,
floors and futures to limit variability of cash flows due to changes in the
benchmark interest rate. We also use interest rate swaps and floors to hedge the
variability in interest payments received on certain floating-rate commercial
loans, due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. Gains and losses on
derivatives that are reclassified from OCI to interest income, interest expense,
noninterest income and noninterest expense in the current period are included
in the line item in which the hedged item s effect on earnings is recorded. All
parts of gain or loss on these derivatives are included in the assessment of
hedge effectiveness. We assess hedge effectiveness using regression analysis,   both at inception of the hedging
relationship and on an ongoing basis. The regression analysis involves
regressing the periodic changes in cash flows of the hedging instrument against
the periodic changes in cash flows of the forecasted transaction being hedged
due to changes in the hedged risk(s). The assessment includes an evaluation of
the quantitative measures of the regression results used to validate the
conclusion of high effectiveness.  

  Based upon current interest
rates, we estimate that $212 million (pre tax) of deferred net gains on
derivatives in OCI at December 31, 2013, will be reclassified into net interest
income during the next twelve months. Future changes to interest rates may
significantly change actual amounts reclassified to earnings. We are hedging
our exposure to the variability of future cash flows for all forecasted
transactions for a maximum of 7     years for both hedges of
floating-rate debt and floating-rate commercial loans.  

  The following table shows the net gains
(losses) recognized related to derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships.  

(1)        See Note 23 for detail
on components of net income.   

  (2)        None of the change in
value of the derivatives was excluded from the assessment of hedge
effectiveness.  

Free-Standing
Derivatives   

  We use free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) to
hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of certain residential MHFS,
certain loans held for investment, residential MSRs measured at fair value, derivative
loan commitments and other interests held. The resulting gain or loss on these
economic hedges is reflected in mortgage banking noninterest income, net gains
(losses) from equity investments and other noninterest income.  

  The derivatives used to hedge MSRs measured
at fair value, which include swaps, swaptions, constant maturity mortgages, forwards,
Eurodollar and Treasury futures and options contracts, resulted in net derivative
losses of $2.9  
  billion in     2013 and net derivative gains of $3.6
billion and $5.2 billion in 2012 and 2011, respectively     which are included in mortgage banking noninterest
income. The aggregate fair value of these derivatives was a net     liability      of $531     million      at December 31, 2013 and a net asset of $87     million at December 31, 2012. The change in
fair value of these derivatives for each period end is due to changes in the
underlying market indices and interest rates as well as the purchase and sale
of derivative financial instruments throughout the period as part of our
dynamic MSR risk management process.  

  Interest rate lock commitments for
residential mortgage loans that we intend to sell are considered free-standing
derivatives. Our interest rate exposure on these derivative loan commitments,
as well as substantially all residential MHFS, is hedged with free-standing
derivatives (economic hedges) such as swaps, forwards and options, Eurodollar
futures and options, and Treasury futures, forwards and options contracts. The
commitments, free-standing derivatives and residential MHFS are carried at fair
value with changes in fair value included in mortgage banking noninterest
income. For the fair value measurement of interest rate lock commitments we
include, at inception and during the life of the loan commitment, the expected
net future cash flows related to the associated servicing of the loan. Fair
value changes subsequent to inception are based on changes in fair value of the
underlying loan resulting from the exercise of the commitment and changes in
the probability that the loan will not fund within the terms of the commitment
(referred to as a fall-out factor). The value of the underlying loan is
affected primarily by changes in interest rates and the passage of time.
However, changes in investor demand can also cause changes in the value of the
underlying loan value that cannot be hedged. The aggregate fair value of
derivative loan commitments on the balance sheet was a net liability of $26     million and a net asset of $497 million at
December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012,     respectively, and is included in the caption  Interest
rate contracts  under  Customer accommodation, trading and other free-standing
derivatives  in the first table in this Note.  

  We also enter into various derivatives
primarily to provide derivative products to customers. To a lesser extent, we
take positions based on market expectations or to benefit from price
differentials between financial instruments and markets. These derivatives are
not linked to specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to
forecasted transactions in an accounting hedge relationship and, therefore, do
not qualify for hedge accounting. We also enter into free-standing derivatives
for risk management that do not otherwise qualify for hedge accounting. They
are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded as other
noninterest income.  

  Free-standing derivatives also include
embedded derivatives that are required to be accounted for separately from
their host contract. We periodically issue hybrid long-term notes and CDs where
the performance of the hybrid instrument notes is linked to an equity,
commodity or currency index, or basket of such indices. These notes contain
explicit terms that affect some or all of the cash flows or the value of the
note in a manner similar to a derivative instrument and therefore are
considered to contain an  embedded  derivative instrument. The indices on which
the performance of the hybrid instrument is calculated are not clearly and
closely related to the host      

207   

Note 16:                 Derivatives      

          (continued)              

debt instrument. The
 embedded  derivative is separated from the host contract and accounted for as
a free-standing derivative.     Additionally,
we may invest in hybrid instruments that contain embedded derivatives, such as
credit derivatives, that are not clearly and closely related to the host
contract. In such instances, we either elect fair value option for the hybrid
instrument or separate the embedded derivative from the host contract and
account for the host contract and derivative separately.  

  The following table shows the net gains
recognized in the income statement related to derivatives not designated as
hedging instruments.  

(1)      Predominantly mortgage
banking noninterest income including gains (losses) on the derivatives used as
economic hedges of MSRs measured at fair value, interest rate lock commitments and
mortgages held for sale.  

  (2)      Predominantly included
in other noninterest income.  

  (3)      Predominantly included
in net gains (losses) from equity investments.  

  (4)      Predominantly mortgage
banking noninterest income including gains (losses) on interest rate lock
commitments.  

  (5)      Predominantly included
in net gains from trading activities in noninterest income.  

208   

Credit Derivatives   

  We use credit derivatives primarily to assist customers
with their risk management objectives. We may also use credit derivatives in
structured product transactions or liquidity agreements written to special
purpose vehicles. The maximum exposure of sold credit derivatives is managed
through posted collateral, purchased credit derivatives and similar products in
order to achieve our desired credit risk profile. This credit risk management
provides an ability to recover a significant portion of any amounts that would
be paid under the sold credit derivatives. We would be required to perform
under the noted credit derivatives in the event of default by the referenced
obligors. Events of default include events such as bankruptcy, capital
restructuring or lack of principal and/or interest payment. In certain cases,
other triggers may exist, such as the credit downgrade of the referenced
obligors or the inability of the special purpose vehicle for which we have
provided liquidity to obtain funding.  

  The following table provides details of sold
and purchased credit derivatives.  

Protection sold represents the estimated
maximum exposure to loss that would be incurred under an assumed hypothetical
circumstance, where the value of our interests and any associated collateral
declines to zero, without any consideration of recovery or offset from any
economic hedges. We believe this hypothetical circumstance to be an extremely
remote possibility and accordingly, this required disclosure is not an
indication of expected loss. The amounts under non-investment grade represent
the notional amounts of those credit derivatives on which we have a higher risk
of being required to perform under the terms of the credit derivative and are a
function of the underlying assets.   

We consider the risk of performance to be
high if the underlying assets under the credit derivative have an external
rating that is below investment grade or an internal credit default grade that
is equivalent thereto. We believe the net protection sold, which is
representative of the net notional amount of protection sold and purchased with
identical underlyings, in combination with other protection purchased, is more
representative of our exposure to loss than either non-investment grade or
protection sold. Other protection purchased represents additional protection,
which may offset the exposure to loss for protection sold, that was not
purchased with an identical underlying of the protection sold.   

209   

Note 16:                 Derivatives      

          (continued)              

Credit-Risk Contingent Features   

  Certain of our derivative contracts contain provisions
whereby if the credit rating of our debt were to be downgraded by certain major
credit rating agencies, the counterparty could demand additional collateral or
require termination or replacement of derivative instruments in a net liability
position. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with such
credit-risk-related contingent features that are in a net liability position
was $14.3 billion at December 31, 2013, and $16.2 billion at December 31, 2012,
respectively, for which we posted $12.2 billion and     $14.3 billion, respectively, in collateral in the
normal course of business. If the credit rating of our debt had been downgraded
below investment grade, which is the credit-risk-related contingent feature
that if triggered requires the maximum amount of collateral to be posted, on
December 31, 2013, or December 31, 2012, we would have been required to post
additional collateral of $2.5 billion or $1.9 billion, respectively, or
potentially settle the contract in an amount equal to its fair value.  

Counterparty Credit Risk   

  By using derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty
credit risk if counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as
expected. If a counterparty fails to perform, our counterparty credit risk is
equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset on our balance sheet. The
amounts reported as a derivative asset are derivative contracts in a gain
position, and to the extent subject to legally enforceable master netting
arrangements, net of derivatives in a loss position with the same counterparty
and cash collateral received. We minimize counterparty credit risk through
credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, executing master netting
arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. To the extent the
master netting arrangements and other criteria meet the applicable requirements,
including determining the legal enforceability of the arrangement, it is our
policy to present derivative balances and related cash collateral amounts net on
the balance sheet. We incorporate credit valuation adjustments (CVA) to reflect
counterparty credit risk in determining the fair value of our derivatives. Such
adjustments, which consider the effects of enforceable master netting
agreements and collateral arrangements, reflect market-based views of the
credit quality of each counterparty. Our CVA calculation is determined based on
observed credit spreads in the credit default swap market and indices
indicative of the credit quality of the counterparties to our derivatives.      

210   

Note
17:  Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities                                                                                                                  

We use fair value measurements to
record fair value adjustments to certain assets and liabilities and to
determine fair value disclosures. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value
on a recurring basis are presented in the recurring table in this Note. From
time to time, we may be required to record at fair value other assets on a
nonrecurring basis, such as certain residential and commercial MHFS, certain
LHFS, loans held for investment and certain other assets. These nonrecurring
fair value adjustments typically involve application of lower-of-cost-or-market
accounting or write-downs of individual assets.  

  Following are discussion
of the fair value hierarchy     and the valuation methodologies
used for assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring or
nonrecurring basis and for estimating fair value for financial instruments not
recorded at fair value.  

Fair
Value Hierarchy   

  We
group our assets and liabilities measured at fair value in three levels based
on the markets in which the assets and liabilities are traded and the
reliability of the assumptions used to determine fair value. These levels are:  

Level
1   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for identical instruments traded in
active markets.   

Level
2   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active
markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are
not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant
assumptions are observable in the market.   

Level
3   Valuation is generated from techniques that use significant assumptions not
observable in the market. These unobservable assumptions reflect estimates of
assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or
liability. Valuation techniques include use of option pricing models,
discounted cash flow models and similar techniques.   

In the
determination of the classification of financial instruments in Level 2 or
Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, we consider all available information,
including observable market data, indications of market liquidity and
orderliness, and our understanding of the valuation techniques and significant
inputs used. Based upon the specific facts and circumstances of each instrument
or instrument category, we make judgments regarding the significance of the
Level 3 inputs to the instruments' fair value measurement in its entirety. If
Level 3 inputs are considered significant, the instrument is classified as
Level 3.  

Assets   

   Short-term
financial assets         Short-term financial assets
include cash and due from banks, federal funds sold and securities purchased
under resale agreements and due from customers on acceptances. These assets are
carried at historical cost. The carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of
fair value because of the relatively short time between the origination of the
instrument and its expected realization.  

   Trading
assets (excluding derivatives) and INVESTMENT         SECURITIES          Trading assets
and available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value on a recurring
basis.     Other investment securities classified
as held-to-maturity are subject to impairment and fair value measurement in the
event fair value declines below amortized cost and we do not expect to recover
the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. Fair value measurement is
based upon various sources of market pricing. We use quoted prices in active
markets, where available, and classify such instruments within Level 1 of the
fair value hierarchy. Examples include exchange-traded equity securities and
some highly liquid government securities, such as U.S. Treasuries. When
instruments are traded in secondary markets and quoted market prices do not
exist for such securities, we generally rely on internal valuation techniques
or on prices obtained from third-party pricing services or brokers
(collectively, vendors) or combination thereof, and accordingly, we classify
these instruments as Level 2 or 3.  

  Trading
securities are mostly valued using internal trader prices that are subject to
price verification procedures performed by separate internal personnel. The
majority of fair values derived using internal valuation techniques are
verified against multiple pricing sources, including prices obtained from third-party
vendors. Vendors compile prices from various sources and often apply matrix
pricing for similar securities when no price is observable. We review pricing
methodologies provided by the vendors in order to determine if observable
market information is being used versus unobservable inputs. When evaluating
the appropriateness of an internal trader price compared with vendor prices,
considerations include the range and quality of vendor prices. Vendor prices
are used to ensure the reasonableness of a trader price; however valuing
financial instruments involves judgments acquired from knowledge of a
particular market. If a trader asserts that a vendor price is not reflective of
market value, justification for using the trader price, including recent sales
activity where possible, must be provided to and approved by the appropriate
levels of management.  

  Similarly, while investment
securities traded in secondary markets are typically valued using unadjusted
vendor prices or vendor prices adjusted by weighting them with internal
discounted cash flow techniques, these prices are reviewed and, if deemed
inappropriate by a trader who has the most knowledge of a particular market,
can be adjusted. Securities measured with these internal valuation techniques
are generally classified as Level 2 of the hierarchy and often involve using
quoted market prices for similar securities, pricing models, discounted cash
flow analyses using significant inputs observable in the market where available
or a combination of multiple valuation techniques. Examples include certain
residential and commercial MBS, municipal bonds, U.S. government and agency
MBS, and corporate debt securities.  

  Security fair value
measurements using significant inputs that are unobservable in the market due
to limited activity or a less liquid market are classified as Level 3 in the
fair value hierarchy. Such measurements include securities valued using
internal models or a combination of multiple valuation techniques, such as
weighting of internal models and vendor or broker pricing, where the
unobservable inputs are significant to the overall fair value measurement.
Securities classified as Level 3 include certain residential and commercial
MBS, other asset-backed securities, CDOs and certain CLOs, and certain residual
and retained interests in residential mortgage loan securitizations. We value
CDOs using the prices of similar instruments, the pricing of completed or
pending third party transactions or the pricing of the underlying collateral
within the CDO. Where vendor or      

211   

Note 17:                 Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities                 (continued)              

broker prices are not
readily available, we use management's best estimate.  

Mortgages
held for sale (MHFS)         We carry substantially all of our
residential MHFS portfolio at fair value. Fair value is based on quoted market
prices, where available, or the prices for other mortgage whole loans with
similar characteristics. As necessary, these prices are adjusted for typical
securitization activities, including servicing value, portfolio composition,
market conditions and liquidity. Most of our MHFS are classified as Level 2.
For the portion where market pricing data is not available, we use a discounted
cash flow model to estimate fair value and, accordingly, classify as Level 3.  

Loans
held for sale (LHFS)         LHFS are carried at the lower of
cost or market value, or at fair value. The fair value of LHFS is based on what
secondary markets are currently offering for loans with similar
characteristics. As such, we classify those loans subjected to nonrecurring
fair value adjustments as Level 2.  

Loans         For information
on how we report the carrying value of loans, including PCI loans, see Note 1.
Although most loans are not recorded at fair value on a recurring basis,
reverse mortgages are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. In addition,
we record nonrecurring fair value adjustments to loans to reflect partial
write-downs that are based on the observable market price of the loan or
current appraised value of the collateral.  

  We provide fair
value estimates in this disclosure for loans that are not recorded at fair
value on a recurring or nonrecurring basis. Those estimates differentiate loans
based on their financial characteristics, such as product classification, loan
category, pricing features and remaining maturity. Prepayment and credit loss
estimates are evaluated by product and loan rate.  

  The fair value of
commercial loans is calculated by discounting contractual cash flows, adjusted
for credit loss estimates, using discount rates that are appropriate for loans
with similar characteristics and remaining maturity.   

  For real estate 1-4 family first and
junior lien mortgages, we calculate fair value by discounting contractual cash
flows, adjusted for prepayment and credit loss estimates, using discount rates
based on current industry pricing (where readily available) or our own estimate
of an appropriate discount rate for loans of similar size, type, remaining
maturity and repricing characteristics.  

  The carrying
value of credit card loans, which is adjusted for estimates of credit losses
inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date, is reported as a
reasonable estimate of fair value. For all other consumer loans, the fair value
is generally calculated by discounting the contractual cash flows, adjusted for
prepayment and credit loss estimates, based on the current rates we offer for
loans with similar characteristics.  

  Loan commitments,
standby letters of credit and commercial and similar letters of credit generate
ongoing fees at our current pricing levels, which are recognized over the term
of the commitment period. In situations where the credit quality of the
counterparty to a commitment has declined, we record an allowance. A reasonable
estimate of the fair value of these instruments is the carrying value of
deferred fees plus the related allowance. Certain letters of credit that are hedged
with derivative instruments are carried at fair value in trading assets or
liabilities. For those letters of credit, fair value is calculated based on
readily quotable credit default spreads using a market risk credit default swap
model.  

Derivatives         Quoted market prices
are available and used for our exchange-traded derivatives, such as certain
interest rate futures and option contracts, which we classify as Level 1.
However, substantially all of our derivatives are traded in over-the-counter
(OTC) markets where quoted market prices are not always readily available.
Therefore we value most OTC derivatives using internal valuation techniques.
Valuation techniques and inputs to internally-developed models depend on the
type of derivative and nature of the underlying rate, price or index upon which
the derivative's value is based. Key inputs can include yield curves, credit
curves, foreign-exchange rates, prepayment rates, volatility measurements and
correlation of such inputs. Where model inputs can be observed in a liquid
market and the model does not require significant judgment, such derivatives
are typically classified as Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Examples of
derivatives classified as Level 2 include generic interest rate swaps, foreign
currency swaps, commodity swaps, and certain option and forward contracts. When
instruments are traded in less liquid markets and significant inputs are
unobservable, such derivatives are classified as Level 3. Examples of
derivatives classified as Level 3 include complex and highly structured
derivatives, certain credit default swaps, interest rate lock commitments
written for our residential mortgage loans that we intend to sell and long
dated equity options where volatility is not observable. Additionally, significant
judgments are required when classifying financial instruments within the fair
value hierarchy, particularly between Level 2 and 3, as is the case for certain
derivatives.  

Mortgage
servicing rights (MSR    s    ) and
certain other interests held in securitizations         MSRs and certain other
interests held in securitizations (e.g., interest-only strips) do not trade in
an active market with readily observable prices. Accordingly, we determine the
fair value of MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the present value of
estimated future net servicing income cash flows. The model incorporates
assumptions that market participants use in estimating future net servicing
income cash flows, including estimates of prepayment speeds (including housing
price volatility), discount rates, default rates, cost to service (including
delinquency and foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings, contractual
servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees. Commercial MSRs are
carried at lower of cost or market value, and therefore can be subject to fair
value measurements on a nonrecurring basis. Changes in the fair value of MSRs
occur primarily due to the collection/realization of expected cash flows, as
well as changes in valuation inputs and assumptions. For other interests held
in securitizations (such as interest-only strips), we use a valuation model
that calculates the present value of estimated future cash flows. The model
incorporates our own estimates of assumptions market participants use in
determining the fair value, including estimates of prepayment speeds, discount
rates, defaults and contractual fee income. Interest-only strips are recorded
as trading assets. Our valuation approach is validated by our internal
valuation model validation group. Fair value measurements of our MSRs and
interest-only strips use significant unobservable inputs and, accordingly, we
classify them as Level 3.      

212   

Foreclosed assets         Foreclosed assets are
carried at net realizable value, which represents fair value less costs to
sell. Fair value is generally based upon independent market prices or appraised
values of the collateral and, accordingly, we classify foreclosed assets as
Level 2.  

Nonmarketable
equity investments         We have elected the fair value option
for certain nonmarketable equity investments. The remaining nonmarketable
equity investments are generally recorded under the cost or equity method of
accounting. There are generally restrictions on the sale and/or liquidation of
these investments, including federal bank stock. Federal bank stock carrying
value approximates fair value. We use facts and circumstances available to
estimate the fair value of our nonmarketable equity investments. We typically
consider our access to and need for capital (including recent or projected
financing activity), qualitative assessments of the viability of the investee,
evaluation of the financial statements of the investee and prospects for its
future. Public equity investments are valued using quoted market prices and
discounts are only applied when there are trading restrictions that are an
attribute of the investment. We estimate the fair value of investments in
non-public securities using metrics such as security prices of comparable
public companies, acquisition prices for similar companies and original
investment purchase price multiples, while also incorporating a portfolio
company's financial performance and specific factors.     For
investments in private equity funds, we use the NAV provided by the fund
sponsor as an appropriate measure of fair value. In some cases, such NAVs
require adjustments based on certain unobservable inputs.  

Liabilities   

   Deposit
liabilities         Deposit liabilities are carried at historical cost.
The fair value of deposits with no stated maturity, such as noninterest-bearing
demand deposits, interest-bearing checking, and market rate and other savings,
is equal to the amount payable on demand at the measurement date. The fair
value of other time deposits is calculated based on the discounted value of
contractual cash flows. The discount rate is estimated using the rates
currently offered for like wholesale deposits with similar remaining
maturities.  

Short-term
financial liabilities         Short-term financial liabilities
are carried at historical cost and include federal funds purchased and
securities sold under repurchase agreements, commercial paper and other
short-term borrowings. The carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair
value because of the relatively short time between the origination of the
instrument and its expected realization.  

Other
liabilities         Other liabilities recorded at fair value on a
recurring basis, excluding derivative liabilities (see the  Derivatives 
section for derivative liabilities), includes primarily short sale liabilities.
Short sale liabilities are predominantly classified as either Level 1 or Level
2, generally dependent upon whether the underlying securities have readily
obtainable quoted prices in active exchange markets.  

Long-term
debt         Long-term debt is generally carried at amortized
cost. For disclosure, we are required to estimate the fair value of long-term
debt. Generally, the discounted cash flow method is used to estimate the fair
value of our long-term debt. Contractual cash flows are discounted using rates
currently offered for new notes with similar remaining maturities and, as such,
these discount rates include our current spread levels.       

Level
3 Asset and Liability Valuation Processes    

  We generally determine fair value of our
Level 3 assets and liabilities by using internally developed models and, to a
lesser extent, prices obtained from third-party pricing services or brokers
(collectively, vendors). Our valuation processes vary depending on which
approach is utilized.  

INTERNAL MODEL VALUATIONS         Our internally developed models primarily consist of
discounted cash flow techniques. Use of such techniques requires determining
relevant inputs, some of which are unobservable. Unobservable inputs are
generally derived from historic performance of similar assets or determined
from previous market trades in similar instruments. These unobservable inputs
usually consist of discount rates, default rates, loss severity upon default,
volatilities, correlations and prepayment rates, which are inherent within our
Level 3 instruments. Such inputs can be correlated to similar portfolios with
known historic experience or recent trades where particular unobservable inputs
may be implied; but due to the nature of various inputs being reflected within
a particular trade, the value of each input is considered unobservable. We
attempt to correlate each unobservable input to historic experience and other
third party data where available.  

  Internal
valuation models are subject to review prescribed within our model risk
management policies and procedures, which include model validation. The purpose
of model validation includes ensuring the model is appropriate for its intended
use and the appropriate controls exist to help mitigate risk of invalid
valuations. Model validation assesses the adequacy and appropriateness of the
model, including reviewing its key components, such as inputs, processing
components, logic or theory, output results and supporting model documentation.
Validation also includes ensuring significant unobservable model inputs are
appropriate given observable market transactions or other market data within
the same or similar asset classes. This ensures modeled approaches are
appropriate given similar product valuation techniques and are in line with
their intended purpose.  

  We have ongoing
monitoring procedures in place for our Level 3 assets and liabilities that use
such internal valuation models. These procedures, which are designed to provide
reasonable assurance that models continue to perform as expected after
approved, include:  

ongoing
analysis and benchmarking to market transactions and other independent market
data (including pricing vendors, if available);   

back-testing
of modeled fair values to actual realized transactions; and   

review
of modeled valuation results against expectations, including review of
significant or unusual value fluctuations.   

We update model
inputs and methodologies periodically to reflect these monitoring procedures.
Additionally, procedures and controls are in place to ensure existing models
are subject to periodic reviews, and we perform full model revalidations as
necessary.  

  All internal
valuation models are subject to ongoing review by business-unit-level
management, and all models are subject to      

213   

Note 17:                 Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities                 (continued)              

additional
oversight by a corporate-level risk management department. Corporate oversight
responsibilities include evaluating adequacy of business unit risk management
programs, maintaining company-wide model validation policies and standards and
reporting the results of these activities to management and our Corporate Model
Risk Committee (CMoR). The CMoR     consists of
senior executive management and reports on top model risk issues to the Company s
Risk Committee of the Board.  

VENDOR-DEVELOPED VALUATIONS         In certain limited circumstances we obtain pricing
from third party vendors for the value of our Level 3 assets or liabilities. We
have processes in place to approve such vendors to ensure information obtained
and valuation techniques used are appropriate. Once these vendors are approved
to provide pricing information, we monitor and review the results to ensure the
fair values are reasonable and in line with market experience in similar asset
classes. While the input amounts used by the pricing vendor in determining fair
value are not provided, and therefore unavailable for our review, we do perform
one or more of the following procedures to validate the prices received:   

comparison
to other pricing vendors (if available);   

variance
analysis of prices;   

corroboration
of pricing by reference to other independent market data, such as market
transactions and relevant benchmark indices;   

review
of pricing by Company personnel familiar with market liquidity and other
market-related conditions; and   

investigation
of prices on a specific instrument-by-instrument basis.   

Fair Value Measurements from Brokers or Third
Party Pricing Services   

  For certain assets and liabilities, we obtain fair
value measurements from brokers or     third party pricing services and record the unadjusted fair value in our
financial statements. The detail by level is shown in the table below. Fair
value measurements obtained from brokers or third party pricing services that
we have adjusted to determine the fair value recorded in our financial statements
are not included in the following table.  

214   

215   

Note 17:                 Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities                 (continued)              

Assets
and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis   

  The
following two tables present the balances of assets and liabilities recorded at
fair value on a recurring basis.  

(1)      Includes
collateralized debt obligations of $2     million.   

  (2)      Net
gains from trading activities recognized in the income statement for the year
ended December 31,     2013 include $(29) million     in net
unrealized losses     on trading securities held
at December 31,     2013.   

  (3)      Balances
consist of securities that are mostly investment grade based on ratings
received from the ratings agencies or internal credit grades categorized as
investment grade if external ratings are not available. The securities are
classified as Level 3 due to limited market activity.  

  (4)      Includes
collateralized debt obligations of $693     million.   

  (5)      Perpetual
preferred securities include ARS and corporate preferred securities. See Note 8
for additional information.  

  (6)      Represents
balance sheet netting of derivative asset and liability balances and related
cash collateral. See Note 16 for additional information.  

  (7)      Derivative
assets and derivative liabilities include contracts qualifying for hedge
accounting, economic hedges, and derivatives included in trading assets and
trading liabilities, respectively.  

(continued
on following page)   

216   

(1)      Includes      collateralized
debt obligations of $21 million.  

  (2)      Net
gains from trading activities recognized in the income statement for the year
ended December 31, 2012 include $305 million in net unrealized     gains
on trading securities held at December 31, 2012.  

  (3)      Balances
consist of securities that are predominantly investment grade based on ratings
received from the ratings agencies or internal credit grades categorized as
investment grade if external ratings are not available. The securities are
classified as Level 3 due to limited market activity.  

  (4)      Includes
collateralized debt obligations of $644     million.   

  (5)      Perpetual
preferred securities include ARS and corporate preferred securities. See Note 8
for additional information.  

  (6)      Represents
balance sheet netting of derivative asset and liability balances and related
cash collateral. See Note 16 for additional information.  

  (7)      Derivative
assets and derivative liabilities     include
contracts qualifying for hedge accounting, economic hedges, and derivatives
included in trading assets and trading liabilities, respectively.  

217   

Note 17:                 Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities                 (continued)              

Changes in Fair Value Levels   

  We monitor the availability of
observable market data to assess the appropriate classification of financial
instruments within the fair value hierarchy and transfer between Level 1, Level
2, and Level 3 accordingly. Observable market data includes but is not limited
to quoted prices and market transactions. Changes in economic conditions or
market liquidity generally will drive changes in availability of observable
market data. Changes in availability of observable market data, which also may
result in changing the valuation technique used, are generally the cause of
transfers between Level 1, Level 2,     and Level 3.  

  Transfers into
and out of Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3     for the periods presented are provided within the     following table.     The amounts
reported as transfers represent the fair value as of the beginning of the
quarter in which the transfer occurred.  

(1)      All transfers in and
out of Level 3 are disclosed within the recurring Level 3 rollforward table in
this Note.  

  (2)      Consists of $231
million of collateralized loan obligations classified as trading assets and $12.5
billion classified as available-for-sale securities that we transferred from
Level 3 to Level 2 in 2013 as a result of increased observable market data in
the valuation of such instruments.  

  (3)      Transfers out of
available-for-sale securities classified as Level 3 exclude $6.0 billion in
asset-backed securities that were transferred from the available-for-sale
portfolio to held-to-maturity securities.  

  (4)      Consists of net
derivative liabilities that were transferred from Level 3 to Level 2 due to
increased observable market data. Also includes net derivative liabilities that
were transferred from Level 2 to Level 3 due to a decrease in observable market
data.  

  (5)      Includes $9.4     billion of securities
of U.S. states and political subdivisions that we transferred from Level 3 to
Level 2  
  as a
result of increased observable market data in the valuation of such
instruments. This transfer was done in conjunction with a change in our
valuation technique from an internal model based upon unobservable inputs to
third party vendor pricing based upon market observable data.  

  (6)      Consists of reverse
mortgage loans securitized with GNMA which were accounted for as secured
borrowing transactions. We transferred the loans from Level 2 to Level 3 in
third quarter 2012 due to decreased market activity and visibility to
significant trades of the same or similar products. As a result, we changed our
valuation technique from an internal model based on market observable data to
an internal discounted cash flow model based on unobservable inputs.      

218   

The
changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring
basis for the year ended December 31, 2013, are summarized as follows:  

(1)      See
next page for detail.  

  (2)      Represents
only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and
management s estimates of fair value and excludes changes due to the
collection/realization of cash flows over time.  

  (3)      Included in net gains
(losses) from trading activities and other noninterest income in the income
statement.  

  (4)      Level 3 transfers out
include $6.0 billion in asset-backed securities that were transferred from the
available-for-sale portfolio to held-to-maturity securities.  

  (5)      Included in net gains
(losses) from debt securities in the income statement.  

  (6)      Included in net gains
(losses) from equity investments in the income statement.  

  (7)      Included in mortgage
banking and other noninterest income in the income statement.  

  (8)      For more information
on the changes in mortgage servicing rights, see Note 9.  

  (9)      Included in mortgage
banking,  
  trading
activities, equity investments and other noninterest income in the income
statement.  

(continued
on following page)   

219   

Note 17:                 Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities                 (continued)              

(continued from
previous page)   

The following table presents
gross purchases, sales, issuances and settlements related to the changes in
Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for
the year ended December 31, 2013.  

220   

The
changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring
basis for the year ended December 31, 2012, are summarized as follows:  

(1)      See
next page for detail.  

  (2)      Represents
only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and
management s estimates of fair value and excludes changes due to the
collection/realization of cash flows over time.  

  (3)      Included
in net gains (losses) from trading activities and other noninterest income in
the income statement.  

  (4)      Included
in net gains (losses) debt securities in the income statement.  

  (5)      Included
in net gains (losses) from equity investments in the income statement.  

  (6)      Included
in mortgage banking and other noninterest income in the income statement.  

  (7)      For
more information on the changes in mortgage servicing rights, see Note 9.  

  (8)      Included
in mortgage banking, trading activities and other noninterest income in the
income statement.  

(continued
on following page)   

221   

Note 17:                 Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities                 (continued)              

(continued from
previous page)   

The following table presents
gross purchases, sales, issuances and settlements related to the changes in
Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the
year ended December 31, 2012.  

222   

The
changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring
basis for the year ended December 31, 2011     are summarized as follows:  

(1)      See
next page for detail.  

  (2)      Represents
only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and
management s estimates of fair value and excludes changes due to the
collection/realization of cash flows over time.  

  (3)      Included
in net gains (losses) from trading activities and other noninterest income in
the income statement.  

  (4)      Included
in net gains (losses) from debt securities in the income statement.  

  (5)      Included
in net gains (losses) from equity investments in the income statement.  

  (6)      Included
in mortgage banking and other noninterest income in the income statement.  

  (7)      For
more information on the change in mortgage servicing rights, see Note 9.  

  (8)      Included
in mortgage banking, trading activities and other noninterest income in the
income statement.  

(continued
on following page)   

223   

Note 17:                 Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities                 (continued)              

(continued from
previous page)   

The following table presents
gross purchases, sales, issuances and settlements related to the changes in
Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for
the year ended December 31, 2011.  

The
following table provides quantitative information about the valuation
techniques and significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation of
substantially all of our Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value
on a recurring basis for which we use an internal model.  

  The
significant unobservable inputs for Level 3 assets and liabilities that are
valued using fair values obtained from third party vendors are not included in
the table as the specific inputs applied are not provided by the vendor (see
discussion regarding vendor-developed valuations within the  Level 3 Asset and
Liability Valuation Processes  section previously within this Note).     In addition, the
table excludes the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs for
certain classes of Level 3 assets and liabilities measured using an internal
model that we consider, both individually and in the aggregate, insignificant
relative to our overall Level 3 assets and liabilities.     We made this
determination based upon an evaluation of each class which considered the
magnitude of the positions, nature of the unobservable inputs and potential for
significant changes in fair value due to changes in those inputs  .       

224   

(1)      Weighted averages are
calculated using outstanding unpaid principal balance for cash instruments such
as loans and securities, and notional amounts for derivative instruments.  

  (2)      Includes $695     million of
collateralized debt obligations.  

  (3)      Securities backed by
specified sources of current and future receivables generated from foreign
originators.  

  (4)      Consists primarily of
investments in asset-backed securities that are revolving in nature, in which
the timing of advances and repayments of principal are uncertain.  

  (5)      Consists of auction
rate preferred equity securities with no maturity date that are callable by the
issuer.  

  (6)      Consists predominantly
of reverse mortgage loans securitized with GNMA which were accounted for as
secured borrowing transactions.  

  (7)      The high end of the
range of inputs is for servicing modified loans. For non-modified loans the
range is $86 - $302.  

  (8)      Includes a blend of
prepayment speeds and expected defaults. Prepayment speeds are influenced by
mortgage interest rates as well as our estimation of drivers of borrower
behavior.  

  (9)      Represents the
aggregate amount of Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis that are individually and in the aggregate insignificant. The
amount includes corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, other
marketable equity securities, other liabilities and certain net derivative
assets and liabilities, such as commodity contracts, foreign exchange contracts
and other derivative contracts.    

  (10)           
  Consists
of total Level 3 assets of $37.2 billion and total Level 3 liabilities of $3.7
billion, before netting of derivative balances.  

225   

Note 17:                 Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities                 (continued)              

(1)      Weighted averages are
calculated using outstanding unpaid principal balance for cash instruments such
as loans and securities, and notional amounts for derivative instruments.  

  (2)      Includes $665     million of
collateralized debt obligations.  

  (3)      Securities backed by
specified sources of current and future receivables generated from foreign
originators.  

  (4)      Consists primarily of
investments in asset-backed securities that are revolving in nature, in which
the timing of advances and repayments of principal are uncertain.  

  (5)      Consists of auction
rate preferred equity securities with no maturity date that are callable by the
issuer.  

  (6)      Consists predominantly
of reverse mortgage loans securitized with GNMA which were accounted for as
secured borrowing transactions.  

  (7)      The high end of the
range of inputs is for servicing modified loans. For non-modified loans the
range is $90 - $437.  

  (8)      Includes a blend of
prepayment speeds and expected defaults. Prepayment speeds are influenced by
mortgage interest rates as well as our estimation of drivers of borrower
behavior.  

  (9)      Represents the
aggregate amount of Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis that are individually and in the aggregate insignificant. The
amount includes corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities,
asset-backed securities backed by home equity loans, other marketable equity
securities, other assets, other liabilities and certain net derivative assets
and liabilities, such as commodity contracts, foreign exchange contracts and
other derivative contracts.    

  (10)           
  Consists
of total Level 3 assets of $51.9 billion and total Level 3 liabilities of $3.1
billion, before netting of derivative balances.  

226   

The valuation techniques     used for our Level 3 assets and liabilities, as presented in
the previous table, are described as follows:      

Discounted cash
flow    - Discounted
cash flow valuation techniques generally consist of developing an estimate of
future cash flows that are expected to occur over the life of an instrument and
then discounting those cash flows at a rate of return that results in the fair
value amount.   

Option model    - Option model valuation techniques
are generally used for instruments in which the holder has a contingent right
or obligation based on the occurrence of a future event, such as the price of a
referenced asset going above or below a predetermined strike price. Option
models estimate the likelihood of the specified event occurring by
incorporating assumptions such as volatility estimates, price of the underlying
instrument and expected rate of return.   

Market
comparable pricing    -
Market comparable pricing valuation techniques are used to determine the fair
value of certain instruments by incorporating known inputs such as recent
transaction prices, pending transactions, or prices of other similar
investments which require significant adjustment to reflect differences in
instrument characteristics.   

Vendor-priced       Prices obtained from third party
pricing vendors or brokers that are used to record the fair value of the asset
or liability, of which the related valuation technique and significant
unobservable inputs are not provided.  

Significant unobservable
inputs presented in the previous table are those we consider significant to the
fair value of the Level 3 asset or liability. We consider unobservable inputs
to be significant, if by their exclusion, the fair value of the Level 3 asset
or liability would be impacted by a predetermined percentage change or based on
qualitative factors such as nature of the instrument, type of valuation
technique used, and the significance of the unobservable inputs relative to
other inputs used within the valuation. Following is a description of the
significant unobservable inputs provided in the table.  

Comparability
adjustment      is an
adjustment made to observed market data such as a transaction price in order to
reflect dissimilarities in underlying collateral, issuer, rating, or other
factors used within a market valuation approach, expressed as a percentage of
an observed price.   

Conversion
Factor      is the
risk-adjusted rate in which a particular instrument may be exchanged for
another instrument upon settlement, expressed as a percentage change from a
specified rate.  

Correlation
factor    - is the
likelihood of one instrument changing in price relative to another based on an
established relationship expressed as a percentage of relative change in price
over a period over time.   

Cost to service    - is the expected cost per loan of
servicing a portfolio of loans which includes estimates for unreimbursed
expenses (including delinquency and foreclosure costs) that may occur as a
result of servicing such loan portfolios.   

Credit spread      is the portion of the interest rate
in excess of a benchmark interest rate, such as OIS, LIBOR or U.S. Treasury
rates, that when applied to an investment captures changes in the obligor s
creditworthiness.  

Default rate      is an estimate of the likelihood of
not collecting contractual amounts owed expressed as a constant default rate
(CDR).   

Discount rate      is a rate of return used to present
value the future expected cash flow to arrive at the fair value of an
instrument. The discount rate consists of a benchmark rate component and a risk
premium component. The benchmark rate component, for example, OIS, LIBOR or
U.S. Treasury rates, is generally observable within the market and is necessary
to appropriately reflect the time value of money. The risk premium component
reflects the amount of compensation market participants require due to the uncertainty
inherent in the instruments  cash flows resulting from risks such as credit and
liquidity.   

Fall-out factor    - is the expected percentage of loans
associated with our interest rate lock commitment portfolio that are likely of
not funding.  

Initial-value
servicing    - is the estimated
value of the underlying loan, including the value attributable to the embedded
servicing right, expressed in basis points of outstanding unpaid principal
balance.   

Loss severity      is the percentage of contractual
cash flows lost in the event of a default.   

Prepayment rate      is the estimated rate at which
forecasted prepayments of principal of the related loan or debt instrument are
expected to occur, expressed as a constant prepayment rate (CPR).  

Utilization rate      is the estimated rate in which
incremental portions of existing reverse mortgage credit lines are expected to
be drawn by borrowers, expressed as an annualized rate.  

Volatility
factor      is the
extent of change in price an item is estimated to fluctuate over a specified
period of time expressed as a percentage of relative change in price over a
period over time.   

Weighted
average life      is the
weighted average number of years an investment is expected to remain
outstanding, based on its expected cash flows reflecting the estimated date the
issuer will call or extend the maturity of the instrument or otherwise
reflecting an estimate of the timing of an instrument s cash flows whose timing
is not contractually fixed.  

Significant Recurring Level 3 Fair
Value Asset and Liability Input Sensitivity   

  We
generally use discounted cash flow or similar internal modeling techniques to
determine the fair value of our Level 3 assets and liabilities. Use of these
techniques requires determination of relevant inputs and assumptions, some of
which represent significant unobservable inputs as indicated in the preceding
table. Accordingly, changes in these unobservable inputs may have a significant
impact on fair value.  

  Certain of these unobservable inputs
will (in isolation) have a directionally consistent impact on the fair value of
the instrument for a given change in that input. Alternatively, the fair value
of the instrument may move in an opposite direction for a given change in
another input. Where multiple inputs are used within the valuation technique of
an asset or liability, a change in one input in a certain direction may be
offset by an opposite change in another input having a potentially muted impact
to the overall fair value of that particular instrument. Additionally, a change
in one unobservable input may result in a change to another unobservable input
(that is, changes in      

227   

Note 17:                 Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities                 (continued)              

certain inputs are interrelated
to one another), which may counteract or magnify the fair value impact.  

SECURITIES, LOANS and MORTGAGES HELD FOR
SALE         The fair values of
predominantly all Level 3 trading securities, mortgages held for sale, loans,
other nonmarketable equity investments, and available-for-sale securities have
consistent inputs, valuation techniques and correlation to changes in
underlying inputs. The internal models used to determine fair value for these Level
3 instruments use certain significant unobservable inputs within a discounted
cash flow or market comparable pricing valuation technique. Such inputs include
discount rate, prepayment rate, default rate, loss severity, utilization rate
and weighted average life.  

  These Level 3 assets would
decrease (increase) in value based upon an increase (decrease) in discount
rate, default rate, loss severity, or weighted average life inputs. Conversely,
the fair value of these Level 3 assets would generally increase (decrease) in
value if the prepayment rate input were to increase (decrease) or if the
utilization rate input were to increase (decrease).  

  Generally, a change in the assumption
used for default rate is accompanied by a directionally similar change in the
risk premium component of the discount rate (specifically, the portion related
to credit risk) and a directionally opposite change in the assumption used for
prepayment rates. Unobservable inputs for loss severity, utilization rate and
weighted average life     do not increase or decrease based
on movements in the other significant unobservable inputs for these Level 3
assets.   

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS       Level 3 derivative instruments are valued using market
comparable pricing, option pricing and discounted cash flow valuation
techniques. We utilize certain unobservable inputs within these techniques to
determine the fair value of the Level 3 derivative instruments. The significant
unobservable inputs consist of credit spread, a comparability adjustment, prepayment
rate, default rate, loss severity, initial-value servicing, fall-out factor,
volatility factor, weighted average life, conversion factor, and correlation
factor.  

Level 3 derivative assets
(liabilities) where we are long the underlying would decrease (increase) in
value upon an increase (decrease) in default rate, fall-out factor, credit
spread, conversion factor, or loss severity inputs. Conversely, Level 3
derivative assets (liabilities) would increase (decrease) in value upon an
increase (decrease) in prepayment rate, initial-value servicing, weighted
average life, or volatility factor inputs. The inverse of the above
relationships would occur for instruments in which we are short the underlying.
The correlation factor and comparability adjustment inputs may have a positive
or negative impact on the fair value of these derivative instruments depending
on the change in value of the item the correlation factor and comparability
adjustment is referencing. The correlation factor and comparability adjustment
is considered independent from movements in other significant unobservable
inputs for derivative instruments.  

  Generally, for derivative
instruments for which we are subject to changes in the value of the underlying referenced
instrument, change in the assumption used for default rate is accompanied by directionally
similar     change in the risk premium component of the discount
rate (specifically, the portion related to credit risk) and a directionally
opposite change in the assumption used for prepayment rates. Unobservable
inputs for loss severity, fall-out factor, initial-value servicing, weighted
average life, conversion factor, and volatility do not increase or decrease
based on movements in other significant unobservable inputs for these Level 3
instruments.  

MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS       We use a discounted cash flow valuation
technique to determine the fair value of Level 3 mortgage servicing rights.
These models utilize certain significant unobservable inputs including
prepayment rate, discount rate and costs to service. An increase in any of
these unobservable inputs will reduce the fair value of the mortgage servicing
rights and alternatively, a decrease in any one of these inputs would result in
the mortgage servicing rights increasing in value. Generally, a change in the
assumption used for the default rate is accompanied by a directionally similar
change in the assumption used for cost to service and a directionally opposite
change in the assumption used for prepayment. The sensitivity of our
residential MSRs is discussed further in Note 8.  

228   

Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair
Value on a Nonrecurring Basis   

  We may be required, from time to time, to measure
certain assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in accordance with GAAP.
These adjustments to fair value usually result from application of LOCOM
accounting or write-downs of individual assets. The following table provides
the fair value hierarchy and carrying amount of all assets that were still held
as of December 31,     2013,      and 2012,     and for which a nonrecurring fair adjustment was
recorded during the years then ended.  

(1)      Predominantly
real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loans.  

  (2)      Represents
carrying value of loans for which adjustments are based on the appraised value
of the collateral.   

  (3)      Includes
the fair value of foreclosed real estate, other collateral owned and
nonmarketable equity investments.  

The following table presents the increase
(decrease) in value of certain assets for which a nonrecurring fair value
adjustment has been recognized during the periods presented.  

(1)      Represents
write-downs of loans based on the appraised value of the collateral.  

  (2)      Includes
the losses on foreclosed real estate and other collateral owned     that
were measured at fair value subsequent to their initial classification as
foreclosed assets. Also includes impairment losses on nonmarketable equity
investments.      

229   

Note 17:                 Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities                 (continued)              

The table below
provides quantitative information about the valuation techniques and significant
unobservable inputs used in the valuation of substantially all of our Level 3
assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis for which
we use an internal model.  

  We have excluded from the table classes of
Level 3 assets and liabilities measured using an internal model that we
consider, both individually and in the aggregate, insignificant relative to our
overall Level 3 nonrecurring measurements. We made this determination based
upon an evaluation of each class which considered the magnitude of the
positions, nature of the unobservable inputs and potential for significant
changes in fair value due to changes in those inputs.  

(1)      Refer
to the narrative following the recurring quantitative Level 3 table of this
Note for a definition of the valuation technique(s) and significant
unobservable inputs.  

  (2)      For
residential MHFS, weighted averages are calculated using outstanding unpaid
principal balance of the loans.  

  (3)      Consists
of approximately $825 million and $942 million government insured/guaranteed
loans purchased from GNMA-guaranteed mortgage securitization, at December 31,     2013
and 2012,  
  respectively
and $68 million and $103 million of other mortgage loans which are not
government insured/guaranteed at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  

  (4)      Represents
a single investment. For additional information, see the  Alternative
Investments  section in this Note.  

  (5)      Applies
only to non-government insured/guaranteed loans.  

  (6)      Includes
the impact on prepayment rate of expected defaults for the government
insured/guaranteed loans, which impacts the frequency and timing of early
resolution of loans.  

230   

Alternative Investments   

  The following table summarizes our investments in various types of funds
for which we use net asset values (NAVs) per share as a practical expedient to
measure fair value on recurring and nonrecurring bases. The investments are
included in trading assets, available-for-sale securities, and other assets. The
table excludes those investments that are probable of being sold at an amount
different from the funds  NAVs.  

N/A -
Not applicable  

  (1)      Excludes $505 million
in a private equity fund that had a nonrecurring fair value adjustment during
2013 and is probable of being sold for an amount different from the fund s NAV;
therefore, the investment s fair value has been estimated using recent transaction
information. This investment is subject to the Volcker Rule, which includes
provisions that restrict banking entities from owning interests in certain
types of funds.  

  (2)      Includes
certain investments subject to the Volcker Rule, which we may have to divest.  

  (3)      Includes nonmarketable
equity investments carried at cost for which we use NAVs as a practical
expedient for determining nonrecurring fair value adjustments. These
investments are predominantly private equity funds and had a fair value of $1.5
billion and $816 million and carrying value of $1.4 billion and $651 million at
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The fair value and carrying value of
investments with nonrecurring fair value adjustments were $88 million and $21
million during 2013 and 2012, respectively.  

Offshore funds primarily invest in foreign
mutual funds. Redemption restrictions are in place for these investments with a
fair value of $144 million and $189 million at December 31, 2013 and December
31,  
  2012, respectively, due to
lock-up provisions that will remain in effect until October 2015.  

  Private equity funds invest in equity and
debt securities issued by private and publicly-held companies in connection
with leveraged buyouts, recapitalizations and expansion opportunities.
Substantially all of these investments do not allow redemptions. Alternatively,
we receive distributions as the underlying assets of the funds liquidate.  

  Venture capital funds invest in domestic and
foreign companies in a variety of industries, including information technology,
financial services and healthcare. These investments can never be redeemed with
the funds. Instead, we receive distributions as the underlying assets of the
fund liquidate.  

231   

Note 17:                 Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities                 (continued)              

Fair Value Option   

  We
measure MHFS at fair value for MHFS originations for which an active secondary
market and readily available market prices exist to reliably support fair value
pricing models used for these loans. Loan origination fees on these loans are
recorded when earned, and related direct loan origination costs are
recognized when incurred. We also measure at fair value certain of our other
interests held related to residential loan sales and securitizations. We
believe fair value measurement for MHFS and other interests held, which we
hedge with free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) along with our MSRs
measured at fair value, reduces certain timing differences and better matches
changes in the value of these assets with changes in the value of derivatives
used as economic hedges for these assets.  

  We
elected to measure certain LHFS portfolios at fair value in conjunction with
customer accommodation activities, to better align the measurement basis of the
assets held with our management objectives given the trading nature of these
portfolios.     In addition, we elected to
measure at fair value certain letters of credit and nonmarketable equity
securities that are hedged with derivative instruments to better reflect the
economics of the transactions. The letters of credit are included in trading
account assets or liabilities, and the nonmarketable equity securities are
included in other assets.  

  Loans that we measure at fair
value consist     predominantly of reverse mortgage loans previously transferred
under a GNMA reverse mortgage securitization program accounted for as a secured
borrowing. Before the transfer, they were classified as MHFS measured at fair
value and, as such, remain carried on our balance sheet under the fair value
option.  

  Similarly, we may elect fair
value option for the assets and liabilities of certain consolidated VIEs. This
option is generally elected for newly consolidated VIEs for which predominantly
all of our interests, prior to consolidation, are carried at fair value with
changes in fair value recorded to earnings. Accordingly, such an election
allows us to continue fair value accounting through earnings for those
interests and eliminate income statement mismatch otherwise caused by
differences in the measurement basis of the consolidated VIEs assets and liabilities.  

  The following table reflects the
differences between fair value carrying amount of certain assets and
liabilities for which we have elected the fair value option and the contractual
aggregate unpaid principal amount at maturity.  

(1)      The
difference between fair value carrying amount and aggregate unpaid principal
includes changes in fair value recorded at and subsequent to funding, gains and
losses on the related loan commitment prior to funding, and premiums on
acquired loans.  

  (2)      Consists
of nonmarketable equity investments carried at fair value.  See Note 7 for more
information.  

  (3)      Represents
collateralized, non-recourse debt securities issued by certain of our
consolidated securitization VIEs that are held by third party investors. To the
extent cash flows from the underlying collateral are not sufficient to pay the
unpaid principal amount of the debt, those third party investors absorb losses.  

232   

The
assets and liabilities accounted for under the fair value option are initially
measured at fair value. Gains and losses from initial measurement and
subsequent changes in fair value are recognized in earnings. The changes in
fair value related to initial measurement and subsequent changes in fair value
included in earnings for these assets and liabilities measured at fair value
are shown  
  below
by income statement line item.  

For performing loans, instrument-specific
credit risk gains or losses were derived principally by determining the change
in fair value of the loans due to changes in the observable or implied credit
spread. Credit spread is the market yield on the loans less the relevant
risk-free benchmark interest rate. For nonperforming loans, we attribute all
changes in fair value to instrument-specific credit risk.     The following table shows the estimated
gains and losses from earnings attributable to instrument-specific credit risk
related to assets accounted for under the fair value option.  

233   

Note 17:                 Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities                 (continued)              

Disclosures about Fair Value of
Financial Instruments    

  The
table below is a summary of fair value estimates for financial instruments,
excluding financial instruments recorded at fair value on a recurring basis as
they are included within the Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a
Recurring Basis table included earlier in this Note. The carrying amounts in
the following table are recorded on the balance sheet under the indicated
captions.  

  We have not included assets and
liabilities that are not financial instruments in our disclosure, such as the
value of the long-term relationships with our deposit, credit card and trust
customers, amortized MSRs, premises and equipment, goodwill and other
intangibles, deferred taxes and other liabilities. The total of the fair value
calculations presented does not represent, and should not be construed to represent,
the underlying value of the Company.  

(1)      Amounts
consist of financial instruments in which carrying value approximates fair
value.  

  (2)      Balance
reflects MHFS and LHFS, as applicable, other than those MHFS and LHFS for which
election of the fair value option was made.  

  (3)      Loans
exclude balances for which the fair value option was elected and also exclude
lease financing with a carrying amount of $12.0 billion and $12.4 billion at     December
31, 2013 and     2012, respectively.  

  (4)      The
carrying amount and fair value exclude balances for which the fair value option
was elected and obligations under capital leases of $11 million and $12 million
at  
  December
31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

Loan commitments, standby letters of credit
and commercial and similar letters of credit are not included in the table
above.      A reasonable estimate of the fair value of
these instruments is the carrying value of deferred fees plus the related
allowance. This amounted to $597 million and $586 million at December
31, 2013 and     2012,
respectively.  

234   

Note
18:  Preferred Stock                                                                                                                                                    

We are authorized to issue 20 million shares of
preferred stock and 4 million shares of preference stock, both without par
value. Preferred shares outstanding rank senior to common shares both as to
dividends and liquidation preference but have no general voting rights. We have
not issued any preference shares under this authorization. If issued,
preference shares would be limited to one vote per share. Our total authorized,
issued and outstanding preferred stock is presented in the following two tables.
The Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  
  is presented in the two  
  tables      below and in the table on the following
page.  

(1)      See
the following page for additional information about the liquidation preference
for the ESOP Cumulative Preferred Stock.  

(1)      Preferred
shares qualify as Tier 1 capital.  

235   

Note 18:                 Preferred Stock                 (continued)              

In March
2013, we issued 25 million Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000 th 
interest in a share of the Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class     A Preferred Stock, Series P, for
an aggregate public offering price of $625 million.  

  In July 2013, we issued 69
million Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000 th  interest in
a share of the Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series Q, for
an aggregate public offering price of $1.7 billion.  

  In December 2013, we issued 34
million Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000 th  interest in
a share of the Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series R, for
an aggregate public offering price of $840 million.   

  See Note 8 for additional
information on our trust preferred securities. We do not have a commitment to
issue Series G or H preferred stock.  

ESOP
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock    
  All shares of
our ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (ESOP Preferred Stock) were
issued to a trustee acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company
401(k) Plan (the 401(k) Plan). Dividends on the ESOP Preferred Stock are
cumulative from the date of initial issuance and are payable quarterly at
annual rates based upon the year of issuance. Each share of ESOP Preferred
Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the 401(k) Plan is converted
into shares of our common stock based on the stated value of the ESOP Preferred
Stock and the then current market price of our common stock. The ESOP Preferred
Stock is also convertible at the option of the holder at any time, unless
previously redeemed. We have the option to redeem the ESOP Preferred Stock at
any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price per share equal to the higher
of (a) $1,000 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends or (b) the fair
market value, as defined in the Certificates of Designation for the ESOP
Preferred Stock.   

(1)      At December 31, 2013
and December 31,  
  2012,
additional paid-in capital included $95     million and $75 million, respectively,
related to ESOP preferred stock.                

  (2)      We
recorded a corresponding charge to unearned ESOP shares in connection with the
issuance of the ESOP Preferred Stock. The unearned ESOP shares are reduced as
shares of the ESOP Preferred Stock are committed to be released.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

236   

Note
19:  Common Stock and Stock Plans                                                                                                                        

Common
Stock   

  The
following table presents our reserved, issued and authorized shares of common
stock at December 31, 2013.  

(1)      Includes
employee options, restricted shares and restricted share rights, 401(k), profit
sharing and compensation deferral plans.  

  At December 31, 2013, we have
warrants outstanding and exercisable to purchase 39,108,864 shares of our
common stock with an exercise price of $34.01 per share, expiring on October
28,     2018.
We did not purchase any of these warrants in 2013. We purchased 70,210 of these
warrants in 2012.      These warrants were issued in
connection with our participation in the TARP     CPP.   

Dividend
Reinvestment and Common Stock Purchase Plans   

  Participants
in our dividend reinvestment and common stock direct purchase plans may
purchase shares of our common stock at fair market value by reinvesting
dividends and/or making optional cash payments, under the plan's terms.  

Employee
Stock Plans   

  We
offer stock-based employee compensation plans as described below. For
information on our accounting for stock-based compensation plans, see Note 1.  

Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans         Our Long- Term
Incentive Compensation Plan (LTICP) provides for awards of incentive and
nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted shares, restricted
stock rights (RSRs), performance share awards (PSAs) and stock awards without
restrictions.  

  During 2013, 2012 and 2011 we
granted RSRs and performance shares as our primary long-term incentive awards
instead of stock options. Holders of RSRs are entitled to the related shares of
common stock at no cost generally vesting over three to five years after the
RSRs were granted. RSRs generally continue to vest after retirement according
to the original vesting schedule. Except in limited circumstances, RSRs are canceled
when employment ends.  

  Holders of each vested PSA are
entitled to the related shares of common stock at no cost. PSAs continue to
vest after retirement according to the original vesting schedule subject to
satisfying the performance criteria and other vesting conditions.  

  Holders of RSRs and PSAs may be
entitled to receive additional RSRs and PSAs (dividend equivalents) or cash
payments equal to the cash dividends that would have been paid had the RSRs or
PSAs been issued and outstanding shares of common stock. RSRs and PSAs granted
as dividend equivalents are subject to the same vesting schedule and conditions
as the underlying award.  

  Stock options must have an
exercise price at or above fair market value (as defined in the plan) of the
stock at the date of grant (except for substitute or replacement options
granted in connection with mergers or other acquisitions) and a term of no more
than 10 years. Except for options granted in 2004 and 2005, which generally
vested in full upon grant, options generally become exercisable over three
years beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant. Except as
otherwise permitted under the plan, if employment is ended for reasons other
than retirement, permanent disability or death, the option exercise period is
reduced or the options are canceled.  

  Certain options granted prior to
2004 included the right to acquire a  reload  stock option. Reload grants are
fully vested upon grant and are expensed immediately; the last reload options
were granted in 2013. As of December 31, 2013, none of the options outstanding
included a reload feature.  

  Compensation expense for most of
our RSRs, and PSAs granted prior to 2013, is based on the quoted market price
of the related stock at the grant date; in 2013 certain RSRs and all PSAs  granted
include discretionary performance based vesting conditions and     are
subject to variable accounting. For these awards, the associated compensation
expense fluctuates with changes in our stock price. Stock option expense is
based on the fair value of the awards at the date of grant. The following table
summarizes the major components of stock incentive compensation expense and the
related recognized tax benefit.  

237   

Note

19:             Common Stock and Stock Plans        (continued)              

For
various acquisitions and mergers, we converted employee and director stock
options of acquired or merged companies into stock options to purchase our
common stock based on the terms of the original stock option plan and the
agreed-upon exchange ratio. In addition, we converted restricted stock awards
into awards that entitle holders to our stock after the vesting conditions are
met. Holders receive cash dividends on outstanding awards if provided in the
original award.  

  The total number of shares of
common stock available for grant under the plans at December 31, 2013, was 282 million.  

Director
Awards   

  Beginning
in 2011, we granted only common stock awards under the LTICP to non-employee
directors elected or re-elected at the annual meeting of stockholders and
prorated awards to directors who join the Board at any other time. Stock awards
vest immediately. Options also were granted to directors prior to 2011, and can
be exercised after twelve months through the tenth anniversary of the grant
date. Options granted prior to 2005 may include the right to acquire a  reload 
stock option.   

Restricted Share
Rights   

  A summary of the status of our
RSRs and restricted share awards at December 31, 2013, and changes during 2013
is in the following table:  

The weighted-average
grant date fair value of RSRs granted during 2012 and 2011 was $31.49     and $31.02,
respectively.  

  At December 31, 2013,
there was $702     million
of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested RSRs. The cost is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.5 years. The
total fair value of RSRs that vested during 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $472
million, $89 million and $41 million, respectively.  

Performance Share
Awards   

  Holders of PSAs are entitled to
the related shares of common stock at no cost subject to the Company's
achievement of specified performance criteria over a three-year period. PSAs are
granted at a target number; based on the Company's performance, the number of
awards that vest can be adjusted downward to zero and upward to a maximum of
either 125% or 150% of target. The awards vest in the quarter after the end of
the performance period. For PSAs whose performance period ended December 31,
2013, the determination     of the number of performance
shares that will vest will occur in the first quarter of 2014, after review of
the Company s performance by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of
Directors.     In 2013, PSAs granted include discretionary
performance based vesting conditions and are subject to variable accounting.
For these awards, the associated compensation expense fluctuates with changes
in our stock price and the estimated outcome of meeting the performance
conditions. The total expense that will be recognized on these awards cannot be
finalized until the determination of the awards that will vest.  

  A summary of the status of our PSAs
at December 31, 2013 and changes during 2013 is in the following table, based
on the target amount of awards:  

The weighted-average grant
date fair value of performance awards granted during 2012 and 2011 was $31.44
and $31.26, respectively.  

  At December 31,     2013, there was $56
million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested performance
awards. The cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of
1.7 years.      

238   

Stock
Options   

  The table below summarizes stock option activity and
related information for the stock plans. Options assumed in mergers are
included in the activity and related information for Incentive Compensation
Plans if originally issued under an employee plan, and in the activity and
related information for Director Awards if originally issued under a director
plan.  

As of December 31, 2013, there
was no unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options. The total
intrinsic value of options exercised during 2013, 2012 and 2011     was
$643 million, $694     million and $246 million,
respectively.  

  Cash received from the exercise
of stock options     for 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $1.6     billion,
$1.5 billion and $554 million, respectively.  

  We do not have a specific policy
on repurchasing shares to satisfy share option exercises. Rather, we have a
general policy on repurchasing shares to meet common stock issuance
requirements for our benefit plans (including share option exercises),
conversion of our convertible securities, acquisitions and other corporate
purposes. Various factors determine the amount and timing of our share
repurchases, including our capital requirements, the number of shares we expect
to issue for acquisitions and employee benefit plans, market conditions
(including the trading price of our stock), and regulatory and legal
considerations. These factors can change at any time, and there can be no
assurance as to the number of shares we will repurchase or when we will
repurchase them.  

  The fair value of each option
award granted on or after January 1, 2006, is estimated using a Black-Scholes
valuation model. The expected term of reload options granted is generally based
on the midpoint between the valuation date and the contractual termination date
of the original option. Our expected volatilities are based on a combination of
the historical volatility of our common stock and implied volatilities for
traded options on our common stock. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S.
Treasury zero-coupon yield curve in effect at the time of grant. Both expected
volatility and the risk-free rates are based on a period commensurate with our
expected term. The expected dividend is based on a fixed dividend amount.   

The following table presents the
weighted-average per share fair value of options granted and the assumptions
used, based on a Black-Scholes option valuation model. All of the options
granted in the years shown resulted from the reload feature.  

Employee
Stock Ownership Plan    

  The
Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan (401(k) Plan) is a defined contribution
plan with an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) feature. The ESOP feature
enables the 401(k) Plan to borrow money to purchase our preferred or common
stock. From 1994 through 2013, with the exception of 2009, we loaned money to
the 401(k) Plan to purchase shares of our ESOP preferred stock. As our employer
contributions are made to the 401(k) Plan and are used by the 401(k) Plan to
make ESOP loan payments, the ESOP preferred stock in the 401(k) Plan is
released and converted into our common stock shares. Dividends on the common
stock shares allocated as a result of the release and conversion of the ESOP
preferred stock reduce retained earnings and the shares are considered
outstanding for computing earnings per share. Dividends on the unallocated ESOP
preferred stock do not reduce retained earnings, and the shares are not
considered to be common stock equivalents for computing earnings per share.
Loan principal and interest payments are made from our employer contributions
to the 401(k) Plan, along with dividends paid on the ESOP preferred stock. With
each principal and interest payment, a portion of the ESOP preferred stock is
released and converted to common stock shares, which are allocated to the
401(k) Plan      

239   

Note

19:             Common Stock and Stock Plans        (continued)              

participants and invested in the Wells
Fargo ESOP Fund within the 401(k) Plan.  

  The balance of common stock and
unreleased preferred stock held in the Wells Fargo ESOP fund, the fair value of
unreleased ESOP preferred stock and the dividends on allocated shares of common
stock and unreleased ESOP Preferred Stock paid to the 401(k) Plan were:  

Deferred
Compensation Plan for Independent Sales Agents   

  WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. is a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Parent formed solely to sponsor a deferred
compensation plan for independent sales agents who provide investment,
financial and other qualifying services for or with respect to participating
affiliates.  

The Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan
for Independent Contractors, which became effective January 1, 2002, allows
participants to defer all or part of their eligible compensation payable to
them by a participating affiliate. The Parent has fully and unconditionally
guaranteed the deferred compensation obligations of WF Deferred Compensation
Holdings, Inc. under the plan.  

240   

Note
20: Employee Benefits and Other Expenses                                                                                                             

Pension
and Postretirement Plans   

  We sponsor a noncontributory qualified defined
benefit retirement plan, the Wells Fargo   Company Cash Balance Plan (Cash
Balance Plan), which covers eligible employees of Wells Fargo. Benefits accrued
under the Cash Balance Plan were frozen effective July 1, 2009.  

  Prior to July 1, 2009, eligible employees' Cash
Balance Plan accounts were allocated a compensation credit based on a
percentage of their certified compensation. The compensation credit percentage
was based on age and years of credited service. The freeze discontinues the
allocation of compensation credits after June 30, 2009. Investment credits
continue to be allocated to participants based on their accumulated balances.  

  We recognize settlement losses for our Cash Balance
Plan based on an assessment of whether our estimated lump sum payments related
to the Cash Balance Plan will, in aggregate for the year, exceed the sum of its
annual service and interest cost (threshold); in 2013, lump sum payments
exceeded this threshold. Settlement losses of $123 million were recognized in
2013, representing the pro rata portion of the net loss remaining in cumulative
other comprehensive income based on the percentage reduction in the Cash
Balance Plan s projected benefit obligation. A remeasurement of the Cash
Balance liability and related plan assets occurs at the end of each quarter in
which settlement losses are recognized.  

  We did not make a contribution to our Cash Balance
Plan in 2013. We do not expect that we will be required to make a contribution
to the Cash Balance Plan in 2014; however, this is dependent on the
finalization of the actuarial valuation in 2014. Our decision of whether to
make a contribution in 2014 will be based on various factors including the
actual investment performance of plan assets during 2014. Given these
uncertainties, we cannot estimate at this time the amount, if any, that we will
contribute in 2014 to the Cash Balance Plan. For the nonqualified pension plans
and postretirement benefit plans, there is no minimum required contribution
beyond the amount needed to fund benefit payments; we may contribute more to
our postretirement benefit plans dependent on various factors.  

  We provide health care and life insurance benefits
for certain retired employees and reserve the right to terminate, modify or
amend any of the benefits at any time.  

  The information set forth in the following tables is
based on current actuarial reports using the measurement date of December 31
for our pension and postretirement benefit plans.  

  The changes in the benefit obligation and the fair
value of plan assets, the funded status and the amounts recognized on the
balance sheet were:  

241   

Note

20:             Employee Benefits and Other Expenses

       (continued)              

The following table provides
information for pension plans with benefit obligations in excess of plan
assets.  

The
components of net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive income were:  

242   

Amounts recognized in cumulative
OCI (pre tax) consist of:      

The net actuarial loss
for the defined benefit pension plans and other post retirement plans that will
be amortized from cumulative OCI into net periodic benefit cost in 2014 is $74
million. The net       prior service credit
for the defined benefit pension plans and other post retirement plans that will
be amortized from cumulative OCI into net periodic benefit cost in 2014 is $3
million.  

Plan
Assumptions   

  For additional information on our pension accounting
assumptions, see Note 1.  

The weighted-average discount
rates used to estimate the projected benefit obligation     for
pension benefits were:  

The weighted-average
assumptions used to determine the net periodic benefit cost were:  

(1)      The discount rate for
the 2013 qualified pension benefits and for the 2013 and 2012 nonqualified
pension benefits includes the impact of quarter-end remeasurements when
settlement losses are recognized.  

To
account for postretirement health care plans we use health care cost trend
rates to recognize the effect of expected changes in future health care costs
due to medical inflation, utilization changes, new technology, regulatory
requirements and Medicare cost shifting. In determining the end of year benefit
obligation we assume a range of average annual increases of approximately 6.75%
to 8.50%, dependent on plan type, for health care costs in 2014. These rates
are assumed to trend down 0.25% per year until the trend rate reaches an
ultimate rate of 5.00% in 2023 to 2028, dependent on plan type. The 2013
periodic benefit cost was determined using initial annual trend rates in the
range of 7.00% to 8.75%, dependent on plan type. These rates were assumed to decrease
0.25% per year until they reached ultimate rates of 5.00% in 2023 to 2028,
dependent on plan type. Increasing the assumed health care trend by one
percentage point in each year would increase the benefit obligation as of
December     31,     2013, by $29     million and the total of the
interest cost and service cost components of the net periodic benefit cost for
2013 by $1     million.
Decreasing the assumed health care trend by one percentage point in each year
would decrease the benefit obligation as of December     31,     2013, by $26     million and the total of the
interest cost and service cost components of the net periodic benefit cost for
2013 by $1     million.   

Investment
Strategy and Asset Allocation   

  We
seek to achieve the expected long-term rate of return with a prudent level of
risk given the benefit obligations of the pension plans and their funded
status. Our overall investment strategy is designed to provide our Cash Balance
Plan with long-term growth opportunities while ensuring that risk is mitigated
through diversification across      

243   

Note

20:             Employee Benefits and Other Expenses

       (continued)              

numerous asset classes
and various investment strategies. We target the asset allocation for our Cash
Balance Plan at a target mix range of 30-50% equities, 40-60% fixed income, and
approximately 10% in real estate, venture capital, private equity and other
investments. The Employee Benefit Review Committee (EBRC), which includes
several members of senior management, formally reviews the investment risk and
performance of our Cash Balance Plan on a quarterly basis. Annual Plan liability
analysis and periodic asset/liability evaluations are also conducted.  

  Other benefit plan assets include
(1) assets held in a 401(h) trust, which are invested with a target mix of
40-60% for both equities and fixed income, and (2) assets held in the Retiree
Medical Plan Voluntary Employees' Beneficiary Association (VEBA) trust, which
are invested with a general target asset mix of 20-40% equities and 60-80%
fixed income. In addition, the strategy for the VEBA trust assets considers the
effect of income taxes by utilizing a combination of variable annuity and low
turnover investment strategies. Members of the EBRC formally review the
investment risk and performance of these assets on a quarterly basis.  

Projected
Benefit Payments   

  Future benefits that we expect to pay under the pension
and other benefit plans are presented in the following table. Other benefits
payments are expected to be reduced by prescription drug subsidies from the
federal government provided by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003.  

244   

Fair Value of Plan Assets   

  The
following table presents the balances of pension plan assets and other benefit
plan assets measured at fair value. See Note 17 for fair value hierarchy level
definitions.  

(1)       This category includes
a diversified mix of assets which are being managed in accordance with a
duration target of approximately 10 years and an emphasis on corporate credit
bonds combined with investments in U.S. Treasury securities and other U.S.
agency and non-agency bonds.  

  (2)       This category includes
assets that are primarily intermediate duration, investment grade bonds held in
investment strategies benchmarked to the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond
Index. Includes U.S. Treasury securities, agency and non-agency asset-backed
bonds and corporate bonds.         

  (3)       This category covers a
broad range of investment styles, both active and passive approaches, as well
as style characteristics of value, core and growth emphasized strategies.
Assets in this category are currently diversified across seven unique
investment strategies. For December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively,
approximately 15% and 24% of the assets within this category are passively
managed to popular mainstream market indexes including the Standard  
Poor's 500 Index; excluding the allocation to the S P 500 Index strategy,
no single investment manager represents more than 2.5% of total plan assets.  

  (4)       This category consists
of a highly diversified combination of four distinct investment management strategies
with no single strategy representing more than 2% of total plan assets.
Allocations in this category are spread across actively managed approaches with
distinct value and growth emphasized approaches in fairly equal proportions.  

  (5)       This category includes
assets diversified across six unique investment strategies providing exposure
to companies based primarily in developed market, non-U.S. countries with no
single strategy representing more than 2.5% of total plan assets.  

  (6)       This category primarily
includes investments in private and public real estate, as well as timber
specific limited partnerships; real estate holdings are diversified by
geographic location and sector (e.g., retail, office, apartments).  

  (7)       This category consists
of several investment strategies diversified across more than 30 hedge fund
managers. Single manager allocation exposure is limited to 0.15% (15 basis
points) of total plan assets.  

245   

Note

20:             Employee Benefits and Other Expenses

       (continued)              

The
changes in Level 3 pension plan and other benefit plan assets measured at fair
value are summarized as follows:  

(1)    All
unrealized gains (losses) relate to instruments held at period end.  

Valuation Methodologies     
   Following is
a description of the valuation methodologies used for assets measured at fair
value.   

Cash and Cash Equivalents   includes investments in
collective investment funds valued at fair value based upon the quoted market
values of the underlying net assets. The unit price is quoted on a private
market that is not active; however, the unit price is based on underlying
investments traded on an active market. This group of assets also includes
investments in registered investment companies valued at the NAV of shares held
at year end.  

Long Duration, Intermediate (Core), High-Yield, and
International Fixed Income   includes investments traded on the secondary
markets; prices are measured by using quoted market prices for similar
securities, pricing models, and discounted cash flow analyses using significant
inputs observable in the market where available, or a combination of multiple
valuation techniques. This group of assets also includes highly liquid government
securities such as U.S. Treasuries, and registered investment companies and collective
investment funds described above.  

Domestic, International and Emerging Market Stocks  
investments in exchange-traded equity securities are valued at quoted market
values. This group of assets also includes investments in registered investment
companies and collective investment funds described above.  

Real Estate and Timber   the fair value of real
estate and timber is estimated based primarily on appraisals prepared by
third-party appraisers. Market values are estimates and the actual market price
of the real estate can only be determined by negotiation between independent
third parties in a sales transaction. This group of assets also includes
investments in exchange-traded equity securities described above.  

Hedge Funds and Private Equity   the fair values of
hedge funds are valued based on the proportionate share of the underlying net
assets of the investment funds that comprise the fund, based on valuations supplied
by the underlying investment funds. Investments in private equity funds are
valued at the NAV provided by the fund sponsor. Market values are estimates and
the actual market price of the investments can only be determined by
negotiation between independent third parties in a sales transaction.  

246   

Other   insurance contracts that are generally
stated at cash surrender value. This group of assets also includes investments
in collective investment funds and private equity described above.  

The
methods described above may produce a fair value calculation that may not be
indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values. While
we believe our valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with other
market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to
determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a
different fair value measurement at the reporting date.  

Defined
Contribution Retirement Plans   

  We sponsor a defined contribution retirement plan
named the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan (401(k) Plan). Under the 401(k)
Plan, after one month of service, eligible employees may contribute up to 50%
of their certified compensation, subject to statutory limits. Eligible
employees who complete one year of service are eligible for company matching
contributions, which are generally dollar for dollar up to 6% of an employee's
eligible certified compensation. As of January 1, 2010, matching contributions
are 100% vested. The 401(k) Plan includes a discretionary profit sharing
contribution feature to allow us to make a contribution to eligible employees 
401(k) Plan accounts. Profit sharing contributions are vested after three years
of service. Total defined contribution retirement plan expenses were $1.2
billion in 2013,     and
$1.1 billion in both 2012 and 2011.  

Other
Expenses   

  Expenses exceeding 1% of total interest income and
noninterest income in any of the years presented that are not otherwise shown
separately in the financial statements or Notes to Financial Statements were:  

247   

Note
21:  Income Taxes                                                                                                                                                       

The
components of income tax expense were:  

The
tax effects of our temporary differences that gave rise to significant portions
of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented in the following
table.  

Deferred taxes related to net unrealized gains
(losses) on investment securities, net unrealized gains (losses) on
derivatives, foreign currency translation, and employee benefit plan
adjustments are recorded in cumulative OCI (see Note 23). These associated
adjustments increased OCI by $2.5 billion in 2013.  

  We have determined that a valuation reserve is
required for 2013 in the amount of $457 million predominantly attributable
to deferred tax assets in various state and foreign jurisdictions where we
believe it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will not be
realized. In these jurisdictions, carry back limitations, lack of sources of
taxable income, and tax planning strategy limitations contributed to our
conclusion that the deferred tax assets would not be realizable. We have
concluded that it is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax
assets will be realized based on our history of earnings, sources of taxable
income in carry back periods, and our ability to implement tax planning
strategies.  

  At December 31, 2013, we had net operating loss and
credit carry forwards with related deferred tax assets of $730 million and
$43 million, respectively. If these carry forwards are not utilized, they
will expire in varying amounts through 2033.  

  At December 31, 2013, we had undistributed foreign
earnings of $1.6 billion related to foreign subsidiaries. We intend to
reinvest these earnings indefinitely outside the U.S. and accordingly have not
provided $450 million of income tax liability on these earnings.  

  The following table reconciles the statutory federal
income tax expense and rate to the effective income tax expense and rate. Our
effective tax rate is calculated by dividing income tax expense by income
before income tax expense less the net income from noncontrolling interests.  

248   

The effective tax rate for 2013, included a net
reduction in the reserve for uncertain tax positions primarily due to
settlements with authorities regarding certain cross border transactions and
tax benefits recognized from the realization for tax purposes of a previously
written down investment.     The
2012 effective tax rate included a tax benefit resulting from the surrender of
previously written-down Wachovia life insurance investments. The 2011 effective
tax rate included a decrease in tax expense associated with leverage leases, as
well as tax benefits related to charitable donations of appreciated securities.  

  The change in unrecognized tax benefits follows:   

Of the $5.5 billion of unrecognized tax benefits at December
31, 2013, approximately $3.7 billion would, if recognized, affect the
effective tax rate. The remaining $1.8 billion of unrecognized tax
benefits relates to income tax positions on temporary differences.  

  We recognize interest and penalties as a component
of income tax expense. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we have accrued
approximately $832 million and $1.0 billion for the payment of interest
and penalties, respectively. We recognized in income tax expense in 2013 and
2012, interest and penalties of $69 million and $92 million, respectively.  

We are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as
income tax in numerous state and foreign jurisdictions. We are routinely
examined by tax authorities in these various jurisdictions. The IRS is
currently examining the 2007 through 2012 consolidated federal income tax
returns of Wells Fargo   Company and its subsidiaries. In addition, we
are currently subject to examination by various state, local and foreign taxing
authorities. With few exceptions, Wells Fargo and its subsidiaries are not
subject to federal, state, local and foreign income tax examinations for
taxable years prior to 2007. Wachovia Corporation and its subsidiaries are no
longer subject to federal examination and, with limited exception, are no
longer subject to state, local, and foreign income tax examinations.  

  We are litigating or appealing various issues
related to our prior IRS examinations for the periods 1999 and 2003 through
2006, and we are appealing various issues related to IRS examinations of
Wachovia s 2003 through 2008 tax years. We have paid the IRS the contested
income tax and interest associated with these issues and refund claims have
been filed for the respective years. On August 22, 2013, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed the adverse decision of the trial court
in our lease restructuring transaction and on October 29, 2013, the Eighth
Circuit denied our petition for rehearing. We are considering whether to file a
petition for certiorari to the U.S. Supreme Court. It is possible that one or
more of these examinations, appeals or litigation may be resolved within the
next twelve months resulting in a decrease of up to $1.5 billion to our gross
unrecognized tax benefits.  

249   

Note
22:              Earnings Per
Common Share                                                                                                                             

The table below shows earnings per common
share and diluted earnings per common share and reconciles the numerator and
denominator of both earnings per common share calculations.      See Note 1 for discussion of private share
repurchases and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Note 19 for
information about stock and options activity and terms and conditions of
warrants.  

The following table presents the outstanding options
and warrants to purchase shares of common stock that were anti-dilutive (the
exercise price was higher than the weighted-average market price), and
therefore not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share.  

250   

Note
23:  Other Comprehensive Income                                                                                                                            

The
components of other comprehensive income (OCI), reclassifications to net income
by income statement line item, and the related tax effects were:  

251   

Note 23:                 Other Comprehensive Income                 (continued)              

Cumulative OCI balances were:  

252   

Note
24:  Operating Segments                                                                                                                                             

We
have three reportable operating segments: Community Banking; Wholesale Banking;
and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. The results for these operating segments
are based on our management accounting process, for which there is no
comprehensive, authoritative guidance equivalent to GAAP for financial
accounting. The management accounting process measures the performance of the
operating segments based on our management structure and is not necessarily
comparable with similar information for other financial services companies. We
define our operating segments by product type and customer segment. If the
management structure and/or the allocation process changes, allocations,
transfers and assignments may change.  

Community Banking      offers a complete line of
diversified financial products and services to consumers and small businesses
with annual sales generally up to $20 million in which the owner generally is
the financial decision maker. Community Banking also offers investment
management and other services to retail customers and securities brokerage
through affiliates. These products and services include the    Wells Fargo
Advantage Funds    SM   , a family of mutual funds. Loan products
include lines of credit, auto floor plan lines, equity lines and loans,
equipment and transportation loans, education loans, origination and purchase
of residential mortgage loans and servicing of mortgage loans and credit cards.
Other credit products and financial services available to small businesses and
their owners include equipment leases, real estate and other commercial
financing, Small Business Administration financing, venture capital financing,
cash management, payroll services, retirement plans, Health Savings Accounts,
credit cards, and merchant payment processing. Community Banking also offers
private label financing solutions for retail merchants across the United States
and purchases retail installment contracts from auto dealers in the United
States and Puerto Rico. Consumer and business deposit products include checking
accounts, savings deposits, market rate accounts, Individual Retirement
Accounts, time deposits, global remittance and debit cards.  

  Community Banking serves
customers through a complete range of channels, including traditional banking
stores, in-store banking centers, business centers, ATMs, Online and Mobile
Banking, and    Wells Fargo Customer Connection,    a 24-hours a day,
seven days a week telephone service.  

Wholesale Banking      provides financial solutions to
businesses across the United States with annual sales generally in excess of
$20 million and to financial institutions globally. Wholesale Banking provides
a complete line of commercial, corporate, capital markets, cash management and
real estate banking products and services. These include traditional commercial
loans and lines of credit, letters of credit, asset-based lending, equipment
leasing, international trade facilities, trade financing, collection services,
foreign exchange services, treasury management, investment management,
institutional fixed-income sales, interest rate, commodity and equity risk
management, online/electronic products such as the    Commercial Electronic
Office       (   CEO      ) portal, insurance, corporate trust
fiduciary and agency services, and investment banking services. Wholesale
Banking manages customer investments through institutional separate accounts
and mutual funds, including the Wells Fargo Advantage Funds and Wells
Capital Management. Wholesale Banking also supports the CRE market with
products and services such as construction loans for commercial and residential
development, land acquisition and development loans, secured and unsecured
lines of credit, interim financing arrangements for completed structures,
rehabilitation loans, affordable housing loans and letters of credit, permanent
loans for securitization, CRE loan servicing and real estate and mortgage
brokerage services.  

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement   
  provides a full range of
financial advisory services to clients using a planning approach to meet each
client's financial
needs. Wealth
Management provides affluent and high net worth clients with a complete range
of wealth management solutions, including financial planning, private banking,
credit, investment management and fiduciary services. Abbot Downing, a Wells
Fargo business, provides comprehensive wealth management services to ultra high
net worth families and individuals as well as endowments and foundations.
Brokerage serves customers' advisory, brokerage and financial needs as part of
one of the largest full-service brokerage firms in the United States.
Retirement is a national leader in providing institutional retirement and trust
services (including 401(k) and pension plan record keeping) for businesses,
retail retirement solutions for individuals, and reinsurance services for the
life insurance industry.  

Other      includes corporate items not
specific to a business segment and elimination of certain items that are
included in more than one business segment, substantially all of which represents
products and services for wealth management customers provided in Community
Banking stores.  

253   

Note 24:             Operating Segments                 (continued)              

(1)      Includes corporate items not specific to a business segment and
the elimination of certain items that are included in more than one business segment,
substantially all of which represents products and services for wealth
management customers provided in Community Banking stores  .   

  (2)      Net
interest income is the difference between interest earned on assets and the
cost of liabilities to fund those assets. Interest earned includes actual
interest earned on segment assets and, if the segment has excess liabilities,
interest credits for providing funding to other segments. The cost of
liabilities includes interest expense on segment liabilities and, if the
segment does not have enough liabilities to fund its assets, a funding charge
based on the cost of excess liabilities from another segment.  

  (3)      Represents segment net
income (loss) for Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage
and Retirement segments and Wells Fargo net income for the consolidated
company.  

254   

Note
25:              Parent-Only
Financial Statements                                                                                                                      

The
following tables present Parent-only condensed financial statements.  

255   

Note

25:             Parent-Only Financial Statements        (continued)              

256   

257   

Note
26:  Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements                                                                                                

The Company and each of its subsidiary banks are
subject to regulatory capital adequacy requirements promulgated by federal
regulatory agencies. The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements,
including well capitalized standards, for the consolidated financial holding
company, and the OCC has similar requirements for the Company s national banks,
including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (the Bank).  

  We do not consolidate our wholly-owned
trust (the Trust) formed solely to issue trust preferred and preferred purchase
securities (the Securities). Securities issued by the Trust includable in Tier
1 capital were $2.1 billion at December 31, 2013. During first
quarter 2013, we redeemed $2.8 billion of trust preferred securities. Under
applicable regulatory capital guidelines issued by bank regulatory agencies,
upon notice of redemption, the redeemed trust preferred securities no longer
qualify as Tier 1 Capital for the Company. This redemption was in connection with
the Capital Plan the Company submitted to the Federal Reserve Board in 2012.  

  Effective January 1, 2013, the Company
implemented changes to the market risk capital rule, commonly referred to as
Basel 2.5, as required by U.S. banking regulators. Basel 2.5 requires banking
organizations with significant trading activities to adjust their capital
requirements to better account for the market risks of those activities. The
market risk capital rule is reflected in the Company s calculation of
risk-weighted assets and upon initial adoption in first quarter 2013,
negatively impacted capital ratios under Basel I by approximately 25 basis
points, but did not impact our ratio under Basel III, as its impact has
historically been included in our calculations.  

  The Bank is an approved seller/servicer,
and is required to maintain minimum levels of shareholders  equity, as specified
by various agencies, including the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development, GNMA, FHLMC and FNMA. At December 31, 2013, the Bank met
these requirements. Other subsidiaries, including the Company s insurance and
broker-dealer subsidiaries, are also subject to various minimum capital levels,
as defined by applicable industry regulations.  The minimum capital levels
for these subsidiaries, and related restrictions, are not significant to our
consolidated operations.  

  The following table presents regulatory
capital information for Wells Fargo   Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.      

(1)      As defined by the
regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC.  

  (2)      The leverage ratio
consists of Tier 1 capital divided by quarterly average total assets, excluding
goodwill and certain other items. The minimum leverage ratio guideline is 3%
for banking organizations that do not anticipate significant growth and that
have well-diversified risk, excellent asset quality, high liquidity, good
earnings, effective management and monitoring of market risk and, in general,
are considered top-rated, strong banking organizations.  

258   

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm                                                                                           

  The
Board of Directors and Stockholders   

  Wells Fargo
  Company:  

We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Wells Fargo
  Company and Subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2013 and 2012,
and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes
in equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December
31, 2013. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements based on our audits.  

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December
31, 2013 and 2012, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2013, in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in    Internal
Control   Integrated Framework (1992)    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated
February 26, 2014, expressed an unqualified opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting.  

/s/
KPMG LLP                                

San
Francisco, California  

  February 26, 2014  

259   

260   

Glossary
  of Acronyms   

ACL   

Allowance for
  credit losses  

G-SIB   

Globally
  systemic important bank  

ALCO    

Asset/Liability
  Management Committee  

HAMP   

Home
  Affordability Modification Program  

ARM       

Adjustable-rate
  mortgage  

HPI   

Home Price Index  

ARS       

Auction rate
  security  

HUD   

Department of
  Housing and Urban Development  

ASC       

Accounting
  Standards Codification  

LHFS       

Loans held for
  sale  

ASU   

Accounting
  Standards Update  

LIBOR       

London Interbank
  Offered Rate  

AVM    

Automated
  valuation model  

LIHTC   

Low-Income
  Housing Tax Credit  

BCBS   

Basel Committee
  on Bank Supervision  

LOCOM   

Lower of cost or
  market value  

BHC   

Bank holding
  company  

LTV       

Loan-to-value  

CCAR   

Comprehensive Capital
  Analysis and Review  

MBS   

Mortgage-backed
  security  

CD   

Certificate of
  deposit  

MHA   

Making Home
  Affordable programs  

CDO       

Collateralized
  debt obligation  

MHFS       

Mortgages held
  for sale  

CDS   

Credit default
  swaps  

MSR       

Mortgage
  servicing right  

CLO       

Collateralized
  loan obligation  

MTN   

Medium-term note  

CLTV   

Combined
  loan-to-value  

NAV       

Net asset value  

CPP       

Capital Purchase
  Program  

NPA   

Nonperforming
  asset  

CPR   

Constant
  prepayment rate  

OCC   

Office of the
  Comptroller of the Currency  

CRE   

Commercial real estate  

OCI   

Other
  comprehensive income  

DOJ   

United States
  Department of Justice  

OTC   

Over-the-counter  

DPD   

Days past due  

OTTI       

Other-than-temporary
  impairment  

ESOP   

Employee Stock
  Ownership Plan  

PCI Loans   

Purchased
  credit-impaired loans  

FAS   

Statement of Financial
  Accounting Standards  

PTPP   

Pre-tax
  pre-provision profit  

FASB       

Financial
  Accounting Standards Board  

RBC   

Risk-based
  capital  

FDIC       

Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation  

ROA   

Wells Fargo
  net income to average total assets  

FFELP   

Federal Family Education
  Loan Program  

ROE   

Wells Fargo
  net income applicable to common stock  

FHA       

Federal Housing
  Administration  

to average
  Wells Fargo common stockholders' equity  

FHFA   

Federal Housing
  Finance Agency  

RWA   

Risk-weighted
  assets  

FHLB       

Federal Home
  Loan Bank  

SEC    

Securities and
  Exchange Commission  

FHLMC       

Federal Home
  Loan Mortgage Corporation  

S P   

Standard  
  Poor s Ratings Services  

FICO   

Fair Isaac
  Corporation (credit rating)  

SPE    

Special purpose
  entity  

FNMA       

Federal National
  Mortgage Association  

TARP   

Troubled Asset
  Relief Program  

FRB   

Board of
  Governors of the Federal Reserve System  

TDR    

Troubled debt
  restructuring  

FSB   

Financial
  Stability Board  

VA   

Department of
  Veterans Affairs  

FTC   

Federal Trade
  Commission  

VaR       

Value-at-Risk  

GAAP    

Generally
  accepted accounting principles  

VIE   

Variable
  interest entity  

GNMA   

Government
  National Mortgage Association  

WFCC   

Wells Fargo
  Canada Corporation  

GSE   

Government-sponsored
  entity  

261   

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 7
 wfc10k_20131231-ex21.htm
 EX-21

EXHIBIT
  21   

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT   

The following is a list of the direct and indirect subsidiaries
  of the Parent as of December 31, 2013:  

Subsidiary  

Jurisdiction
  of Incorporation or Organization  

1005 Corp.   

North Carolina  

2007 Vento II, LLC  

Delaware  

A.G. Edwards Capital, Inc.  

Delaware  

A.G. Edwards Hedging Services, Inc.  

Nevada  

AAI Investment Fund, LLC  

Delaware  

ACAS/WCM, LLC  

Delaware  

Accounting Services, LLC  

Delaware  

ACO Brokerage Holdings Corporation  

Delaware  

ACP AOE 1 Limited  

Cayman Islands  

ACP AOE 2 Limited  

Cayman Islands  

ACP Borrower Limited  

Cayman Islands  

Adirondack Rock Creek Emerging Markets Fund, LP  

Delaware  

Advanced Collateral Solutions, LLC  

Delaware  

AGE Capital Holding, Inc.  

Delaware  

AILS, Inc.  

Delaware  

Alano Funding, LLC  

Delaware  

Alternative Strategies Brokerage Services, Inc.  

Delaware  

Alternative Strategies Group, Inc.  

North Carolina  

Alternative Strategies Managed Futures   Commodities
  Platform, LLC  

Delaware  

Alternative Strategies Offshore Platform, SPC  

UK - Cayman Islands  

Alternative Strategies Platform, LLC  

Delaware  

Alternative Strategies Private Equity Platform, LLC  

Delaware  

Alternative Strategies Real Estate Platform, LLC  

Delaware  

American Capital/Wachovia CDO Investor Fund, L.P.  

Delaware  

American Securities Company  

California   

American Securities Company of Missouri  

Missouri  

American Securities Company of Nevada  

Nevada   

American Securities Company of Utah  

Utah  

Anchor 6 Offshore Fund Limited  

Cayman Islands  

ASGI Agility Income Fund  

Delaware  

ASGI Aurora Opportunities Fund, LLC  

Delaware  

ASGI Aurora Special Onshore Asset Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

ASGI Corbin Multi-Strategy Fund, LLC  

Delaware  

ASGI Hedged Equities, Accredited, L.P.  

Delaware  

ASGI Hedged Equities, Super Accredited, L.P.  

Delaware  

ASGI Managed Futures Legends Fund, LLC  

Delaware  

ASGI Multi-Strategy Fund II, Super Accredited, L.P.  

Delaware  

ASGI Multi-Strategy, Accredited, L.P.  

Delaware  

ASGI Multi-Strategy, Super Accredited, L.P.  

Delaware  

ASGI Private Equity Fund II, L.P.  

Delaware  

ASGI Private Equity Fund, L.P.  

Delaware  

ASGI Private Equity Partners 1999, L.P.  

Delaware  

ASGI Private Equity Partners 2001, L.P.  

Delaware  

ASGI Private Equity Partners QP 1999, L.P.  

Delaware  

ASGI Private Equity Partners QP 2001, L.P.  

Delaware  

ASGI Special Asset Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

Asset Management Affiliates, Inc.  

Wisconsin  

ATC Realty Fifteen, Inc.   

California  

ATC Realty Nine, Inc.   

California  

ATC Realty One, LLC   

Delaware  

ATC Realty Sixteen, Inc.   

California  

Augite Pte. Limited  

Singapore  

Augustus Ventures, L.L.C.  

Nevada  

Aurora GP Holding, LLC  

Delaware  

Avolon Capital Partners Limited  

Cayman Islands  

AZ-#3644 Jackson, LLC  

Delaware  

Azalea Asset Management, Inc.  

Delaware  

Bacon Housing L.P.  

Virginia  

Bankers Funding Company, LLC  

Delaware  

Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards
  Realty Co., Incorporated  

California  

Bellevue Property Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Bergamasco Funding, LLC  

Delaware  

Berkeley Teen Center Investment Fund, LLC  

Delaware  

BGMCO PA, Inc.  

Pennsylvania  

Biscoe Finance, LLC  

Delaware  

Bitterroot Asset Management, Inc.  

Cayman Islands  

Bowler Housing L.P.  

Virginia  

Britt/Paulk Insurance Agency, Inc.  

Georgia  

Brittlebush Financing, LLC  

Nevada   

Bryan, Pendleton, Swats   McAllister, LLC  

Tennessee  

BT Costa Rican Land, Sociedad De Responsabilidad Limitada  

Costa Rica  

Burdale Financial Limited  

UK - England  

Business Development Corporation of South Carolina  

South Carolina  

BW Properties Co. Limited  

Korea  

C   S Appraisal Services, LLC  

Minnesota  

California GP X, LLC  

Delaware  

Cardinal International Leasing, LLC  

Delaware  

Carlyle Energy Mezzanine Access - ASP Fund, LLC  

Delaware  

Carnation Asset Management, Inc.  

Delaware  

Castle Pines Capital International LLC  

Delaware  

Castle Pines Capital LLC  

Delaware  

Cateavon Limited  

Hong Kong  

Cenizo Midstream, LLC  

Texas  

Central Fidelity Capital Trust I  

Delaware  

Centurion Casualty Company  

Iowa  

Centurion Life Insurance Company  

Iowa  

CGT Insurance Company Ltd.  

Barbados   

Charter Holdings, Inc.  

Nevada   

Chestnut Asset Management, Inc.  

Delaware   

ChinaVest Ltd.  

Bermuda  

City First Capital III, LLC  

Delaware  

City First Capital V, LLC  

Delaware  

City First Capital XI, LLC  

Delaware  

City Place Buckhead, LLC  

Delaware  

clearXchange, LLC  

Delaware  

CNB Investment Trust I  

Maryland  

CNB Investment Trust II  

Maryland  

Collin Equities, Inc.   

Texas  

CoLTS LLC 2005-1  

Delaware  

CoLTS LLC 2005-2  

Delaware  

CoLTS LLC 2007-1  

Delaware  

Congress Financial Capital Corporation (Canada)  

Canada - Ontario  

Consortium America II, LLC  

Delaware  

CoreStates Capital I  

Delaware  

CoreStates Capital II  

Delaware  

CoreStates Capital III  

Delaware  

CoreStates Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

CP Equity, LLC  

Delaware  

CPC Global LLC  

Delaware  

Crocker Properties, Inc.  

California  

CTB Realty Ventures XXI, Inc.  

Connecticut  

Danube Holdings I C.V.  

Netherlands  

Danube Holdings III C.V.  

Netherlands  

Danube I Limited Partner, LLC  

Delaware  

DE Capital Mortgage, LLC  

Delaware  

DFG Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Diversified Finance Investments, LLC  

Delaware  

DNA Investment Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Early Warning Services, LLC  

Delaware  

Eastdil Secured Broker Services, Inc.  

Delaware  

Eastdil Secured, L.L.C.  

New York  

ECM Asset Management Limited   

UK - England  

ECM Holdings Limited  

UK - England  

ECM Senior Secured Fund LLC  

Delaware  

ELEW, LLC  

Minnesota  

EnerVest-Wachovia Co-Investment Partnership, L.P.  

Delaware  

Epic Funding Corporation  

California  

European Credit Fund SICAV II  

Luxembourg  

European Credit X S.a r.l.  

Luxembourg  

European Credit Y S.a r.l.  

Luxembourg  

EVEREN Capital Corporation  

Delaware  

Evergreen Alternative Capital, Inc.  

Delaware  

Evergreen ECM Holdings B.V.  

Netherlands  

Evergreen Financing Company, LLC  

Delaware  

EverKey Global Focus (GP), LLC  

Delaware  

EverKey Global Focus Master Fund, Ltd.  

Bahamas  

EverKey Global Fund, L.P.  

Delaware  

EverKey Global Offshore Master Fund, Ltd.  

Bahamas  

EverKey Global Partners (GP), LLC  

Delaware  

FA Recruiting Services, LLC  

Texas  

Falcon Asset Management, Inc.  

Delaware  

FCB/SC Capital Trust II  

Delaware  

First Clearing, LLC  

Delaware  

First Fidelity Urban Investment Corporation  

New Jersey  

First International Advisors, LLC  

Delaware  

First Penco Realty, Inc.  

Pennsylvania  

First Security Capital I  

Delaware  

First State Service Corporation  

North Carolina  

First Union Capital II  

Delaware  

First Union Community Development Corporation  

Virginia  

First Union Rail Corporation  

North Carolina  

FNL Insurance Company, Ltd  

Hawaii  

Forum Capital Markets, LLC  

Delaware  

Fullerton Towers Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

FUNC Holdings, Inc.  

Florida  

G.C. Leasing, Inc.  

Virginia  

G/WDC 541 N Fairbanks, LLC  

Delaware  

Galliard Capital Management, Inc.  

Minnesota  

General Homes Corp.  

Texas  

Golden Capital Management, LLC  

Delaware  

Golden Funding Company  

Cayman Islands  

Golden West Savings Association Service Co.  

California  

Goldenrod Asset Management, Inc.  

Delaware  

Greenfield Funding, LLC  

Minnesota  

GS Bridgeport I CDE, LLC  

Delaware  

GS Private Equity Partners IX ASW Fund, LLC   

Delaware  

HADBO Investments C.V.  

Netherlands  

Hanover/FUDC Master Limited Partnership  

Delaware  

Harrier Funding, LLC  

Delaware  

Haven for Hope Investment Fund, LLC  

Delaware  

Heritage Indemnity Company  

California  

Heritage Mechanical Breakdown Corporation  

Delaware  

HHC Mezzanine D, LLC  

Delaware  

Homeservices Lending, LLC  

Delaware  

Horizon Management Services, Inc.  

Florida  

Hyattsville Center, LLC  

Delaware  

Hyattsville Property Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Iapetus Funding, LLC  

Delaware  

IBID, Inc.  

Delaware  

IntraWest Asset Management, Inc.  

Delaware  

Island Finance Holding Company, LLC  

Cayman Islands  

Island Finance Puerto Rico, Inc.  

Delaware  

Island Finance Sales Finance Corporation  

Cayman Islands  

Island Finance Sales Finance Trust  

Puerto Rico  

IWIC Insurance Company  

Vermont  

JC-Warren MI, LLC  

Delaware  

JERSEY CENTER/FIDOREO, INC.  

New Jersey  

JPSD, Inc.  

Delaware  

Kalorama Special Products Fund SPC, Ltd.  

Cayman Islands  

Killdeer Capital Company, LLC  

Delaware  

Komondor Funding, LLC  

Delaware  

Landfill Portfolio, LLC  

Delaware  

Landmark Equity Partners XIV ASP Fund, LLC  

Delaware  

LG-354 Lewisville TX, LLC  

Delaware  

Lincoln Building Corporation  

Colorado  

Lordship LLC  

Delaware  

MAA/NCF Sub-CDE, LLC  

Delaware  

Macro*World Research Corporation  

North Carolina  

Marigold International Limited  

Cayman Islands  

Marina Towers Melbourne, LLC  

Delaware  

Mastiff Funding, LP  

Delaware  

Meadowmont JV, LLC  

Delaware  

Meridian Venture Partners  

Pennsylvania  

Metropolitan West Capital Management, LLC  

California  

Mid-City Community CDE - Operating Fund, LLC  

Delaware  

Mid-Peninsula Capital, LLC  

California  

Milford Highlands PA, LLC  

Delaware  

Military Family Home Loans, LLC  

Delaware  

Monument Peak, LLC  

Delaware  

Monument Street Funding, Inc.   

California  

Monument Street Funding, LLC  

Delaware  

Monument Street Funding-II, LLC  

Delaware  

Morganite Pte. Ltd.  

Singapore  

Mulberry Asset Management, Inc.  

Delaware  

MVP Distribution Partners  

Pennsylvania  

MW1-2002, LLC  

Delaware  

NB Crossroads XVIII ASP Fund, LLC  

Delaware  

NCT Exchange, LLC  

Delaware  

NEC IX, LLC  

Delaware  

NEC VIII, LLC  

Delaware  

Neckar Financial, LLC  

Delaware  

NeighborCare Health Investment Fund, LLC  

Delaware  

Nelson Capital Management, LLC  

Delaware  

New Markets Investment XIII, LLC  

Delaware  

NFPS, LLC  

Delaware  

North Hart Run, Inc.  

Virginia  

Norwest Center, Inc.  

Minnesota  

Norwest Equity Capital, L.L.C.  

Minnesota  

Norwest Equity Partners IX, LP  

Delaware  

Norwest Equity Partners VI, LP  

Minnesota  

Norwest Equity Partners VII, LP  

Minnesota  

Norwest Equity Partners VIII, LP  

Delaware  

Norwest Financial Canada DE, Inc.  

Delaware  

Norwest Financial Funding, Inc.  

Nevada  

Norwest Limited LP, LLLP  

Delaware   

Norwest Mezzanine Partners I, LP  

Minnesota  

Norwest Mezzanine Partners II, LP  

Delaware  

Norwest Mezzanine Partners III, LP  

Delaware  

Norwest Properties Holding Company  

Minnesota  

Norwest Venture Capital Management, Inc.  

Minnesota  

Norwest Venture Partners Advisory - Mauritius  

Mauritius  

Norwest Venture Partners Advisory Hong Kong Limited  

Hong Kong  

Norwest Venture Partners FVCI Singapore Private Limited  

Singapore  

Norwest Venture Partners FVCI-Mauritius  

Mauritius  

Norwest Venture Partners IX, LP  

Delaware  

Norwest Venture Partners VI, LP  

Minnesota  

Norwest Venture Partners VI-A, LP  

Delaware  

Norwest Venture Partners VII, LP  

Minnesota  

Norwest Venture Partners VII-A Mauritius  

Mauritius  

Norwest Venture Partners VII-A, LP  

Delaware  

Norwest Venture Partners VIII, LP  

Delaware  

Norwest Venture Partners X - Mauritius  

Mauritius  

Norwest Venture Partners X FII - Mauritius  

Mauritius  

Norwest Venture Partners X, LP  

Delaware  

Norwest Venture Partners XI, LP  

Delaware  

NVP Associates, LLC  

Delaware  

NVP Israel Ltd  

Israel  

NVP Rates, LLC  

California  

NVP Venture Capital India Private Limited  

India  

Ocean View Holdco, LLC  

Delaware  

OmniPlus Capital Corporation  

Tennessee  

Orcutt Property Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Overland Advisors, LLC  

Delaware  

Overland GP LLC  

Delaware  

Overland Relative Value Fund LLC  

Delaware  

Overland Relative Value Fund Ltd.  

Cayman Islands  

Overland Relative Value Master Fund LP  

Cayman Islands  

Oxmoor Center, LLC   

Delaware  

Pal Office Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Pamlico Capital II ASP Fund, LLC  

Delaware  

Pamlico Capital II, L.P.  

Delaware  

Pamlico Capital Secondary Fund, L.P.  

Delaware  

Partnership Investments S.a.r.l.  

Luxembourg  

Pelican Asset Management, Inc.  

Delaware  

Peony Asset Management, Inc.  

Delaware  

Peregrine Capital Management, Inc.  

Minnesota  

PFC Exchange, LLC  

Delaware  

PFC Gas Liquids, LLC  

Texas  

Pheasant Asset Management, Inc.  

Delaware  

PHH Funding, LLC  

Delaware  

Preferred Funding S.a.r.l.  

Luxembourg  

Preferred Investments S.a.r.l.  

Luxembourg  

Preferred Motor Sports Risk Purchasing Group, LLC  

Minnesota  

Premia Mortgage, LLC  

Delaware  

Premium Timberland Sales, Inc.  

North Carolina  

Prime Valuation Services, LLC  

Minnesota  

Primrose Asset Management, Inc.  

Delaware  

Private Mortgage Advisors, LLC  

Delaware  

PRN Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

Prosperity Mortgage Company  

Minnesota  

Prudence Crandall Fund III, LLC   

Delaware  

Pumi Funding, LLC  

Delaware  

Quail Asset Management, LLC  

Delaware  

QuestPoint L.P., Inc.  

Delaware  

R. B. C. Corporation  

North Carolina  

Railway Tenant, LLC  

Maryland  

RC Kenwood Fund Ltd.  

Cayman Islands  

RC Woodley Park, LP  

Delaware  

Real Sincere Group Limited  

UK - Virgin Islands  

REDUS AD, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Alabama Commercial, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Alabama, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS ALK, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Arizona, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Arlington Ridge FL Land, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Arlington Ridge FL, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Atlanta Housing, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Atlanta Subdivisions, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Beau View Towers, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Beauview Condos, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Broadway AA, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Bundoran Farms, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS CA Properties, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Charlotte Housing, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Colorado, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Dallas TX, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS DE, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Delaware, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS EL, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Emerald Green, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Ferguson, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS FL Properties, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Florida Commercial, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Florida Condos, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Florida Housing, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Florida Land, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Frederica Club, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Frederica, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Georgia Commercial, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Greensboro Subdivisions, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Halifax Landing, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Houston, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Illinois, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Indiana, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Kentucky, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Lake Wilson, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS LH SC, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS LH, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS MA Subdivisions, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS McCar Homes, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS MD Land, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Mississippi Land, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Mississippi, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Nashville Housing, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS NC Coastal, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS NC Commercial, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS NC Land, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS NC-ALL, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Nevada, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS New Jersey, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS NH Sewer Co, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS NH Water Co, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS NWP, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Ohio, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS One Market, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS One, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS OR Land, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS PDG, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Peninsula Millsboro, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS PG, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Properties, Inc.  

Delaware  

REDUS Raleigh Housing, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Reno, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS RG, LLC  

South Carolina  

REDUS SC Coastal, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS SC Housing, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Seneca, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS South Carolina, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS SVTC, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Texas Land, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS TN-ALL, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS TRG II, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS TRG III, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS TRG, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Twin Lakes, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS TX Properties, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS VA Housing, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Virginia Commercial, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Virginia Subdivisions, LLC  

Delaware  

REDUS Wakefield, LLC  

Delaware  

Reliable Finance Holding Company  

Puerto Rico  

Reliable Finance Holding Company, LLC  

Nevada  

Reliable Financial Services, Inc.  

Puerto Rico  

Reliable Insurance Services Corp.  

Puerto Rico  

RELS Management Company, LLC  

Delaware  

RELS Title Services, LLC  

Delaware  

RELS, L.L.C.  

Delaware  

Renaissance Finance II, LLC  

Delaware  

Rhine Investment Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Riggs Rental Exchange, LLC  

Delaware  

Rigil Funding, LLC  

Delaware  

Rock Creek 1848 Fund L.P.  

Delaware  

Rock Creek 1848 GP, LLC  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Adams Fund Series, LLC  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Adirondack GP, LLC  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Austin Fund, L.P.  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Austin GP, LLC  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Connecticut LLC  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Emerging Markets Fund Offshore L.P.  

Cayman Islands  

Rock Creek Emerging Markets Fund SPC, Ltd.  

Cayman Islands  

Rock Creek Emerging Markets GP, Ltd.  

Cayman Islands  

Rock Creek Empire Fund GP, LLC  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Empire Fund, L.P.  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Fort Reno Series LLC  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Fund (E) Ltd.  

Cayman Islands  

Rock Creek Georgetown Fund, Ltd.  

Cayman Islands  

Rock Creek Glen Echo Fund, Ltd.  

Cayman Islands  

Rock Creek GP Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Human Capital Fund, Ltd.  

Cayman Islands  

Rock Creek Limestone Emerging Markets, L.P.  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Limestone GP, LLC  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Mozarkite Emerging Markets Fund, L.P.  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Mozarkite Emerging Markets GP, LLC  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Penn Quarter GP, LLC  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Penn Quarter, L.P.  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Potomac Fund, Ltd.  

Cayman Islands  

Rock Creek Spring Valley Opportunities Onshore Fund GP, LLC  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Two Harbors Emerging Market Fund, Ltd.  

Cayman Islands  

Rock Creek Whitehaven Fund, Ltd.  

Cayman Islands  

Rock Creek Whitehurst EM Series LLC  

Delaware  

Rock Creek Zilker Investment Fund GP, LLC  

Delaware  

Rocky River Project LLC  

Delaware  

RORI Property Holdings, LLC   

Delaware  

Ruby Asset Management Inc.  

Maryland  

Rural Community Insurance Agency, Inc.  

Minnesota  

Rural Community Insurance Company  

Minnesota  

RWF Mortgage Company  

California  

Ryder Exchange, LLC  

Delaware  

Sagebrush Asset Management, Inc.  

Delaware  

Saguaro Asset Management, Inc.  

Delaware  

Salvo Finance GP  

Delaware  

Savings Associations Financial Enterprises, Incorporated  

District of Columbia  

SC Realty, LLC  

Delaware  

SCG Funding, LLC  

Delaware  

Seriford International Limited  

UK - Virgin Islands  

Shanghai Commercial Bank Limited  

Hong Kong  

Siguler Guff BRIC Opportunities II ASW Fund, LLC  

Delaware  

Siguler Guff Distressed Real Estate ASP Fund, LLC  

Delaware  

Silver Asset Management, Inc.  

Delaware  

Sirius Funding, LLC  

Delaware  

SoCo Community Development Company, LLC  

Alabama  

Solid Bond Limited  

UK - Virgin Islands  

Solution Delivery, LLC  

Delaware  

Source One Liquidation, LLC  

Delaware  

SouthTrust Community Reinvestment Company, LLC  

Alabama  

SouthTrust Mobile Services Funding Corporation  

Alabama  

Southwest Partners, Inc.  

California  

Sparta GP Holding REO Corp.  

Delaware  

Sparta GP Holding, LLC  

Delaware  

Spring Cypress Water Supply Corporation   

Texas  

SR 70 Land Bradenton, LLC  

Delaware  

St. Joseph s Affordable Housing Limited Partnership  

Pennsylvania  

Stagecoach Wagon Wheel, Inc.  

California  

Sterling Bradenton, LLC  

Delaware  

Strata WF Solar Statutory Trust  

Delaware  

STRATS, LLC  

Delaware  

Structured Asset Investors, LLC  

Delaware  

Structured Credit Partners, LLC  

Delaware  

Structured Principal Strategies Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Structured Principal Strategies, LLC  

Delaware  

Summitt PELS Funding, LLC  

Delaware  

Superior Guaranty Insurance
  Company  

Vermont  

Sweetroot Funding, LLC  

Cayman Islands  

Synthetic Fixed-Income Securities, Inc.  

Delaware  

TAI Title Trust  

Delaware  

Taylor County Land GA, LLC  

Delaware  

TAYLORR LAKES/FIDOREO, INC.  

New Jersey  

TE-WF Solar Trust  

Delaware  

The Preserve Sevierville, LLC  

Delaware  

The Ridges at Mountain Harbour, LLC  

Delaware  

The Rock Creek Group, LLC  

Delaware  

The Rock Creek Group, LP  

Delaware  

The Thirty-Eight Hundred Fund, LLC  

Delaware  

The Westlake Group Limited  

Turks   Caicos  

Thirty-Eight Hundred Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Thirty-Eight Hundred Investments Limited  

Cayman Islands  

Tiberius Ventures, L.L.C.  

Nevada  

TMS Special Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

TMS Student Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

Topaz Asset Management Inc.  

Maryland  

Trade School Finance LLC  

Delaware  

Transportation Equipment Advisors, Inc.  

Illinois  

Triad Apartment Portfolio, LLC  

Delaware  

TRSTE II, Inc.  

Tennessee  

TRSTE, Inc.  

Virginia  

Tryon Management, Inc.  

North Carolina  

TW Container Leasing Ltd.  

Bermuda  

Two APM Plaza, Inc.  

Pennsylvania  

Tyro Funding, LLC  

Delaware  

Union Hamilton Reinsurance, Ltd.  

Bermuda  

United Bancshares, Inc.  

Pennsylvania  

United Bank of Philadelphia  

Pennsylvania  

Universal Master Servicing, LLC  

Delaware  

Valley Asset Management, Inc.  

Delaware  

Valuation Information Technology, L.L.C.  

Iowa   

Vento WF, LLC  

Delaware  

Vermillion Huntersville, LLC  

Delaware  

Viewpointe Archive Services, L.L.C.  

Delaware  

Villages at Warner Ranch PUD, LP  

Delaware  

Violet Asset Management, Inc.  

Delaware  

W.C.A. Service Corporation, Inc.  

California  

Wachovia Asia Limited  

Hong Kong  

Wachovia Asset Securitization Issuance II, LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Asset Securitization Issuance, LLC  

North Carolina  

Wachovia Capital Investments, Inc.  

Georgia  

Wachovia Capital Partners 2002, LLC   

North Carolina  

Wachovia Capital Partners 2004, LLC  

North Carolina  

Wachovia Capital Partners 2005, LLC  

North Carolina  

Wachovia Capital Partners Secondary Fund I, L.P.  

Delaware  

Wachovia Capital Partners, Inc.  

Virginia  

Wachovia Capital Trust II  

Delaware  

Wachovia Capital Trust III  

Delaware  

Wachovia Capital Trust V  

Delaware  

Wachovia Community Development Corporation  

North Carolina  

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises I, LLC  

North Carolina  

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises II, LLC  

North Carolina  

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises III, LLC  

North Carolina  

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises IV, LLC  

North Carolina  

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises V, LLC  

North Carolina  

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises XIX, LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises XVII, LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises XVIII, LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises XX, LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises XXI, LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Community Development Enterprises, LLC  

North Carolina  

Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1 Investor LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia CRE CDO 2006-1, Ltd.  

UK - Cayman Islands  

Wachovia Defeasance 175 Jackson
  III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance 3409 PRIMM III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance 601 Valley III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Alta Mira Shopping Center LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance AmericasMart Real Estate III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Aventura Mall III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2001-PB1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2001-PB1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2002-2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2003-1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2005-5 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2006-2 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BACM 2010-K7 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BOA-FUNB 2001-3 CAC V-CRIT Portfolio LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BOA-FUNB 2001-3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BOA-FUNB 2001-3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCM 2004-PWR3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCM 2006-TOP22 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 1999-C1 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 1999-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 1999-WF2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 1999-WF2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2000-WF2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2001-TOP2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2001-TOP4 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2002-PBW1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2002-PBW1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2002-TOP6 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2002-TOP8 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2003-PWR2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2003-TOP10 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2003-Top10 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2003-TOP12 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2003-Top12 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2004-PWR3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2004-PWR4 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2004-PWR5 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2004-PWR6 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2004-TOP14 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2004-TOP16 525 Vine Street LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2004-TOP16 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2005-PWR10 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2005-PWR7 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2005-PWR8 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2005-PWR9 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2005-TOP18 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2005-TOP20 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2006-PWR11 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2006-PWR13 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2006-PWR14 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2006-TOP24 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2007-PWR16 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2007-TOP26 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance BSCMS 2007-TOP28 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CD 2006-CD2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CD 2007-CD4 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Chase 1999-2 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Chase 1999-2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CHASE 2000-1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CHASE 2000-2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CHASE 2000-3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Chase-FUNB 1999-1 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Chase-FUNB 1999-1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Citigroup 2004-C1 CF West Palm LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Citigroup 2004-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Citigroup 2004-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Citigroup 2004-C1 Seaboard Associates LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Citigroup
  2005-C3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Citigroup 2006-C5 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Citigroup 2007-C6 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CMAC 1999-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CMLB 2001-1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CMLB 2001-1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance COBALT 2006-C1 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance COMM 2004-LNB2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance COMM 2010-C1 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 1997-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 1997-C2 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 1997-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 1998-C2 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 1998-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2001-CK3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2001-CK3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2001-CKN5 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2002-CKP1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2002-CKS4 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2002-CP5 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2003-C3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2003-C5 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2003-CPN1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2004-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2004-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2004-C3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2005-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2005-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2005-C3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2005-C6 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2005-C6 III-KEYCORP LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2006-C2 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance CSFB 2007-C2 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance DBUBS 2011-LC1 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance DLJ 1998-CG1 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance DLJ 1998-CG1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance DLJ 1999-CG1 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance DLJ 1999-CG1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance DLJ 1999-CG2 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance DLJ 1999-CG2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance DLJ 1999-CG2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance DLJ 1999-CG3 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance DLJ 1999-CG3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance DLJ 1999-CG3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance DLJ 2000-CF1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance DLJ 2000-CKP1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Four New York Plaza III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FREMF 2010-K7 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FREMF 2011-K703 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUCM 1999-C4 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUCM 1999-C4 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FU-LB 1997-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FU-LB 1997-C2 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FU-LB-BOA 1998-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 1999-C1 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 1999-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 1999-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 1999-C4 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 1999-C4 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 1999-C4 ML Windsor-ML Hammocks LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2000-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2000-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2000-C1 POOL SB LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2000-C2 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2000-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2000-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2000-C2 Phoenix Crowne LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB
  2001-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2001-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2001-C3 CAC II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2001-C3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2001-C3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2001-C4 CRIT Portfolio LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2001-C4 CRIT-VA IV LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2001-C4 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2001-C4 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2002-C1 CRIT-VA V LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2002-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2002-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB 2002-C1 Madison Sixty LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB-BOA 2001-C1 (CRIT NC) LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB-BOA 2001-C1 (CRIT VA) LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB-BOA 2001-C1 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB-BOA 2001-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB-BOA 2001-C1 POOL SB LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB-CHASE 1999-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance FUNB-Chase 1999-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GA-AL Commercial III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GE 2002-2 183 Madison LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GE 2002-2 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GE 2002-2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2000-1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2000-1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2001-1 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2001-1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2001-1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2001-2 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2001-2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2001-2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2001-3 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2001-3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2001-3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2002-1 Cameron Crossing LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2002-1 Culver Center West LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2002-1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2002-1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2002-2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2002-2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2002-2 Wills Group FLP LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2002-3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2002-3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2003-C2 Culver Center East LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2003-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2003-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2004-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2004-C2 POOL SB LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2004-C2 Stefan Associates LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2005-C1 PIL I LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECCMC 2006-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECC-Subway LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECMC 2003-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GECMC 2004-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GMAC 1997-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GMAC 1998-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GMAC 1999-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GMAC 1999-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GMAC 2000-C3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GMAC 2001-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GMAC 2001-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GMAC 2002-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GMAC 2002-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GMAC 2002-C3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GMAC 2003-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GMAC 2003-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GMACCM
  1997-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Greenwich 2002-C1 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GREENWICH 2002-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Greenwich 2002-C1 Landmark IV LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Greenwich 2002-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Greenwich 2003-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GREENWICH 2003-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Greenwich 2003-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Greenwich 2004-GG1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Greenwich 2004-GG1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GREENWICH 2005-GG5 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Greenwich 2007-GG9 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GS 1998-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GS 2004-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GS 2004-GG2 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GS 2006-GG6 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GS 2007-GG10 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GS 2010-C1 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GS 2010-C2 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GS 2011-GC3 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GSMSC II 1999-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GSMSC II 2003-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GSMSC II 2004-GG2 1410 Broadway LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance GSMSC II 2004-GG2 1441 Broadway LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance HF 1999-PH1 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance HF 1999-PH1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance HF 1999-PH1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance HF 2000 PH-1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 1999-C7 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 1999-PLSI LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2000-C10 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2000-C9 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2001-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2001-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2001-CIBC1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2001-CIBC2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2001-CIBC3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2001-CIBC3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2002-C1 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2002-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2002-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2002-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2002-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2002-C3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2002-C3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2002-CIBC4 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2002-CIBC5 CP Pembroke Pines LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2002-CIBC5 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2002-CIBC5 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2003-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2003-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2003-CIB6 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2003-CIBC6 CP Deerfield LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2003-CIBC6 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2003-CIBC7 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2003-LN1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2003-LN1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2003-ML1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2003-ML1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2003-PM1 Battery Commercial LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2003-PM1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2004-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2004-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2004-C3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2004-CIBC10 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2004-CIBC8 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2004-LN2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC
  2005-LDP1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2005-LDP2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2005-LDP2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2006-CIBC15 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2006-LDP7 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2006-LDP8 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2007-LDP10 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2007-LDP11 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance JPMC 2007-LDP12 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB 1998-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB 1998-C4 II Ardsley Associates LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB 1998-C4 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB 1998-C4 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB 1998-C4 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB 1999-C1 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB 1999-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB 1999-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB 1999-C2 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB 1999-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB 1999-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB UBS 2002-C2 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2000-C3 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2000-C3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2000-C3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2000-C4 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2000-C4 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2000-C5 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2000-C5 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2001-C2 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2001-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2001-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2001-C3 1735 North Lynn LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2001-C3 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2001-C3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2001-C3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2001-C7 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2001-C7 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2001-C7 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C1 400 Atlantic LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C1 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C2 Hibbs/Woodinville LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C4 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C4 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C7 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C7 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C7 Independence Shoppingtown LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2002-C7 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C1 (Clear) LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C1 Franklin Avenue LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C1 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C5 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C5 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C7 (Getty) LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C7 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C8 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2003-C8 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C4 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS
  2004-C4 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C6 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C6 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C7 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C7 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C8 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2004-C8 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2005-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2005-C3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2005-C5 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2005-C7 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2005-C7 VR Bayou LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2006-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2006-C3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2006-C6 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2006-C7 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2007-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance LB-UBS 2008-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Management - KeyCorp LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Management - Midland LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Management II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Management III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Management LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Management-KeyCorp III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Management-Midland III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MCF 1998-MC3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance ML-CFC 2006-4 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance ML-CFC 2007-5 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance ML-CFC 2007-7 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 1998-C2 II LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 1998-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 1998-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 1998-C3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2002-MW1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2002-MW1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2005-CKI1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2005-CKI1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2005-MCP1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2005-MCP1 PVA III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2005-MKB2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2006-1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2006-2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2006-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2007-5 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2007-9 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMI 2008-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMT 2004-MKB1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MLMT 2006-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1998-CF1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1998-HF2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1998-WF2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1999-FNVI LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1999-LIFE1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1999-RM1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1999-WF1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 1999-WF1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2003-IQ4 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2003-IQ5 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2003-IQ6 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2003-IQ6 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2003-TOP11 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2003-Top11 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2004-HQ3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2004-HQ3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2004-HQ4 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2004-IQ7 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2004-IQ7 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI
  2004-IQ8 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2004-TOP13 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2004-TOP15 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2004-TOP15 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2005-HQ6 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2005-HQ7 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2005-IQ9 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2005-TOP17 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2005-TOP19 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2005-TOP19 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2006-HQ8 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2006-HQ9 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2006-IQ11 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2006-TOP21 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2006-TOP23 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSCI 2007-TOP25 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSDWCI 2000-LIFE1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSDWCI 2000-LIFE1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSDWCI 2000-Life2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSDWCI 2001-TOP3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSDWCI 2001-TOP5 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSDWCI 2001-Top5 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSDWCI 2002-TOP7 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSDWCI 2002-Top7 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSDWCI 2003-HQ2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSDWCI 2003-HQ2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance MSDWCI 2003-TOP9 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance PMAC 1999-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance PNCMAC 1999-CM1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance PNCMAC 2000-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance PNCMAC 2001-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance PSSFC 1998-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance PSSFC 1999-NRF1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance PSSFC 2003-PWR1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance PSSFC 2003-PWR1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance PSSFC 2003-PWR1 PAL-MED LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Rite Aid 1999-1 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance River Terrace LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance SBMS 2000-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance SBMS VII 2000-C3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance SBMS VII 2000-C3 Wellington Place LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance SBMS VII 2001-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance SBMS VII 2001-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance TIAA 2007-C4 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2002-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2002-C1 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2002-C2 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2002-C2 Lawndale Market Place LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2002-C2 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C3 Big Trout Lodge LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C3 Gaddis LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C3 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C3 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C4 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C4 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C5 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C5 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C6 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C6 John   Son's LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C6 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C7 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C7 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C8 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C8 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C9 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2003-C9 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C10 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia
  2004-C10 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C11 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance WACHOVIA 2004-C12 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C12 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C14 Amstar LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C14 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C14 Lenexa LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C14 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C15 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2004-C15 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C16 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C16 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C17 450 Partners LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C17 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C17 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C18 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C18 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C19 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C20 III 60 Hudson LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C20 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C20 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C21 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C21 LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2005-C22 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2006-C23 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2006-C24 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2006-C25 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2006-C26 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2006-C27 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2006-C29 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2007-C30 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance Wachovia 2007-C33 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance WBCMT 2002-C1 III LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance WFCMS 2010-C1 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance WFCMS 2011-C2 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Defeasance WFCMS 2011-C4 III LLC   

Delaware  

Wachovia Development Corporation   

North Carolina  

Wachovia Education Loan Funding LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Fixed Income Structured Trading Solutions, LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia International Capital Corporation  

Georgia  

Wachovia Investors, Inc.  

North Carolina  

Wachovia Mortgage Loan Trust, LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Netherlands Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Ocean View Member, LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Preferred Funding Corp.  

Delaware  

Wachovia Preferred Funding Holding Corp.  

California  

Wachovia Preferred Realty, LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Private Capital, Inc.  

Pennsylvania  

Wachovia Re, Inc.  

Vermont  

Wachovia Real Estate Investment Corp.  

Delaware  

Wachovia Residual Interest Securitization, LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Wachovia Service Corporation  

Delaware  

Wachovia Student Loan Trust 2005-1  

Delaware  

Wachovia Student Loan Trust 2006-1  

Delaware  

Wachovia Technology Planning   Solutions Private Limited  

India  

Wachovia Trade Finance Corporation  

Delaware  

Warranty Solutions Administrative Services, Inc.  

Florida  

Warranty Solutions Management Corporation  

California  

WBI Holdings I, LLC  

Delaware  

WBI Holdings II, LLC  

Delaware  

WBI Holdings III, LLC  

Delaware  

WBI Holdings IV, LLC  

Delaware  

WBI Holdings V, LLC  

Delaware  

WBI Holdings VI, LLC  

Delaware  

WCI OREO, LLC  

Delaware  

WCP Compression Holdings, LLC  

North Carolina  

WCP Compression, LLC  

North Carolina  

WCP Holdings 2002, LLC  

North Carolina  

WCP Secondary Fund I GP, LLC  

Delaware  

WDC 541 N Fairbanks Member, LLC  

Delaware  

WDC Triad Member I, LLC  

Delaware  

WDC Triad Parent, LLC  

Delaware  

WDC Union Station, LLC  

Delaware  

WDC Ventures Ltd.  

Mauritius  

WDS Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

Wealth Enhancement Advisory Services, LLC  

Minnesota  

Wealth Enhancement Brokerage Services, LLC  

Minnesota  

Wealth Enhancement Group, LLC  

Minnesota  

WEG Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

WELF Holding LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Capital Management Incorporated  

California  

Wells Fargo Advisors Financial Network, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Advisors Insurance Agency, LLC  

Virginia  

Wells Fargo Advisors, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Affordable Housing Community Development Corporation  

North Carolina  

Wells Fargo Affordable Housing Corp.  

North Carolina  

Wells Fargo Aircraft S.a r.l.  

Luxembourg  

Wells Fargo Asia Limited  

Hong Kong  

Wells Fargo Asset Securities Corporation  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Auto Receivables, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Bank International  

Ireland  

Wells Fargo Bank Northwest, National Association  

United States  

Wells Fargo Bank South Central, National Association  

United States  

Wells Fargo Bank, Ltd.  

California  

Wells Fargo Bank, National Association  

United States  

Wells Fargo Brasil Escritorio De Representacao Ltda.  

Brazil  

Wells Fargo Business Credit Canada ULC  

Canada - Alberta  

Wells Fargo Canada Corporation  

Canada - Nova Scotia  

Wells Fargo Capital Finance Corporation Canada  

Canada - Ontario  

Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Capital Holdings Inc.  

Delaware   

Wells Fargo Capital II  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Capital X  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Cedar Creek LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Central Pacific Holdings, Inc.  

California   

Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage Securities, Inc.  

North Carolina  

Wells Fargo Commodities, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Corporation  

Nevada  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 7 Subsidiary
  7, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 8 Subsidiary
  7, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 8 Subsidiary
  8, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary
  1, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary
  10P, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary
  2, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary
  3, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary
  4, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary
  5, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary
  6, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary
  7, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary
  8, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprise Round 9 Subsidiary
  9, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 6 Sub 10,
  LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 6 Sub 8, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 6 Sub 9, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 7 Sub 1, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 7 Sub 2, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 7 Sub 3, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 7 Sub 4, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 7 Sub 5, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Round 7 Sub 6, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Subsidiary 1, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Subsidiary 2, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community
  Development Enterprises Subsidiary 3, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Subsidiary 4, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Subsidiary 5, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Subsidiary 6, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises Subsidiary 7, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Community Development Enterprises, Inc.  

Nevada  

Wells Fargo Community Investment Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Container Corp. Ltd.  

Bermuda  

Wells Fargo Credit Card Funding LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Credit Card Master Note Trust  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Credit, Inc.  

Minnesota   

Wells Fargo Delaware Trust Company, National Association  

United States  

Wells Fargo Distribution Finance, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Energy Capital, Inc.  

Texas  

Wells Fargo Enterprise Global Services, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Equipment Finance Company  

Canada - Nova Scotia  

Wells Fargo Equipment Finance, Inc.  

Minnesota  

Wells Fargo Equity Capital, Inc.  

California  

Wells Fargo Escrow Company, LLC  

Iowa  

Wells Fargo Exchange Services, Inc.  

North Carolina  

Wells Fargo Exchange Services, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Financial Acceptance America, Inc.  

Pennsylvania  

Wells Fargo Financial Alabama, Inc.  

Alabama  

Wells Fargo Financial Alaska, Inc.  

Alaska   

Wells Fargo Financial America, Inc.  

Pennsylvania  

Wells Fargo Financial Arizona, Inc.  

Arizona  

Wells Fargo Financial California, Inc.  

Colorado  

Wells Fargo Financial Colorado, Inc.  

Colorado  

Wells Fargo Financial Connecticut, Inc.  

Connecticut  

Wells Fargo Financial Corporation Canada  

Canada - Nova Scotia  

Wells Fargo Financial Credit Services New York, Inc.  

New York  

Wells Fargo Financial Delaware, Inc.  

Delaware   

Wells Fargo Financial Florida, Inc.  

Florida  

Wells Fargo Financial Funding B.V.  

Netherlands  

Wells Fargo Financial Georgia, Inc.  

Iowa  

Wells Fargo Financial Guam, Inc.  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Financial Hawaii, Inc.  

Hawaii  

Wells Fargo Financial Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Financial Idaho, Inc.  

Idaho  

Wells Fargo Financial Illinois, Inc.  

Iowa  

Wells Fargo Financial Indiana, Inc.  

Indiana  

Wells Fargo Financial Iowa 1, Inc.  

Iowa  

Wells Fargo Financial Iowa 3, Inc.  

Iowa  

Wells Fargo Financial Kansas, Inc.  

Kansas  

Wells Fargo Financial Kentucky 1, Inc.  

Kentucky  

Wells Fargo Financial Kentucky, Inc.  

Kentucky   

Wells Fargo Financial Leasing, Inc.  

Iowa   

Wells Fargo Financial Louisiana, Inc.  

Louisiana  

Wells Fargo Financial Maine, Inc.  

Maine  

Wells Fargo Financial Maryland, Inc.  

Maryland  

Wells Fargo Financial Massachusetts 1, Inc.  

Massachusetts  

Wells Fargo Financial Massachusetts, Inc.  

Massachusetts  

Wells Fargo Financial Michigan, Inc.  

Michigan  

Wells Fargo Financial Minnesota, Inc.  

Minnesota  

Wells Fargo Financial Missouri, Inc.  

Missouri  

Wells Fargo Financial Montana, Inc.  

Montana   

Wells Fargo Financial National Bank  

United States  

Wells Fargo Financial Nebraska, Inc.  

Nebraska  

Wells Fargo Financial Nevada 2, Inc.  

Nevada   

Wells Fargo Financial Nevada, Inc.  

Nevada  

Wells Fargo Financial New Hampshire 1, Inc.  

New Hampshire  

Wells Fargo Financial New Hampshire, Inc.  

New Hampshire  

Wells Fargo Financial New Jersey, Inc.  

New Jersey  

Wells Fargo Financial New Mexico, Inc.  

New Mexico  

Wells Fargo Financial New York, Inc.  

New York  

Wells Fargo Financial North Carolina 1, Inc.  

North Carolina  

Wells Fargo Financial North Carolina, Inc.  

North Carolina  

Wells Fargo Financial North
  Dakota, Inc.  

North Dakota  

Wells Fargo Financial Ohio 1, Inc.  

New Hampshire  

Wells Fargo Financial Ohio, Inc.  

Ohio  

Wells Fargo Financial Oklahoma, Inc.  

Oklahoma  

Wells Fargo Financial Oregon, Inc.  

Oregon  

Wells Fargo Financial Pennsylvania, Inc.  

Pennsylvania  

Wells Fargo Financial Retail Credit, Inc.  

Iowa   

Wells Fargo Financial Retail Services Company Canada  

Canada - Nova Scotia  

Wells Fargo Financial Rhode Island, Inc.  

Rhode Island  

Wells Fargo Financial Services, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Financial South Carolina, Inc.  

South Carolina  

Wells Fargo Financial South Dakota, Inc.  

South Dakota  

Wells Fargo Financial System Florida, Inc.  

Florida  

Wells Fargo Financial System Virginia, Inc.  

Virginia   

Wells Fargo Financial Tennessee 1, LLC  

Tennessee   

Wells Fargo Financial Tennessee, Inc.  

Tennessee   

Wells Fargo Financial Texas, Inc.  

Texas   

Wells Fargo Financial Utah, Inc.  

Utah   

Wells Fargo Financial Virginia, Inc.  

Virginia  

Wells Fargo Financial Washington 1, Inc.  

Washington  

Wells Fargo Financial Washington, Inc.  

Washington  

Wells Fargo Financial West Virginia, Inc.  

West Virginia  

Wells Fargo Financial Wisconsin, Inc.  

Wisconsin  

Wells Fargo Financial Wyoming, Inc.  

Wyoming  

Wells Fargo Financial, LLC  

Iowa  

Wells Fargo Financing Corporation  

California   

Wells Fargo Foothill Canada ULC  

Canada - Alberta  

Wells Fargo Fund Services, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Funding, Inc.  

Minnesota  

Wells Fargo Funds Distributor, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Funds Management, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Gaming Capital, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Global Broker Network, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Global Fund Services (Asia) Pte Ltd.  

Singapore  

Wells Fargo Global Fund Services (Ireland) Limited  

Ireland  

Wells Fargo Global Fund Services (UK) Limited  

UK - England  

Wells Fargo Global Fund Services Holdings LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Global Fund Services LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Home Mortgage Real Estate Funding 1, Inc.  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Housing Advisors, Inc.  

California  

Wells Fargo India Solutions Private Limited  

India  

Wells Fargo Institutional Securities, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Insurance Montana, Inc.  

Montana  

Wells Fargo Insurance Services of West Virginia, Inc.  

West Virginia  

Wells Fargo Insurance Services USA, Inc.  

North Carolina  

Wells Fargo Insurance, Inc.  

Minnesota   

Wells Fargo International B.V.  

Netherlands  

Wells Fargo International Banking Corporation  

United States  

Wells Fargo International Holdings (Luxembourg) S.a r.l.  

Luxembourg  

Wells Fargo International Inc.  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo International Services Private Limited  

India  

Wells Fargo Investment Group, Inc.  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Merchant Services, L.L.C.  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Mortgage Loan Trust II, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Mortgage Loan Trust, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Municipal Capital Strategies, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Philippines Solutions Inc.  

Philippines  

Wells Fargo Prime Services, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Principal Investments, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Principal Lending, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Properties, Inc.  

Minnesota  

Wells Fargo Real Estate Advisors Private Limited  

India  

Wells Fargo Real Estate Capital Investments, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Real Estate Tax Services, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Regional Community Development Corporation, Inc.  

Pennsylvania  

Wells Fargo Relative Value Portfolio  

Cayman Islands  

Wells Fargo Risk Services, Inc.  

Virginia  

Wells Fargo Securities (Japan)
  Co., Ltd.  

Japan  

Wells Fargo Securities Asia Limited  

Hong Kong  

Wells Fargo Securities Canada, LTD  

Canada - Nova Scotia  

Wells Fargo Securities International Limited  

UK - England  

Wells Fargo Securities, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Small Business Investment Company, Inc.  

California  

Wells Fargo Soporte Global Limitada  

Chile  

Wells Fargo Special Risks, Inc.  

Illinois  

Wells Fargo Structured Lending, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Trade Capital Services, Inc.  

New York  

Wells Fargo Trust Corporation Limited  

UK - England  

Wells Fargo Ventures, LLC  

Delaware  

Wells Fargo Wealth Brokerage Insurance Agency, LLC  

Virginia  

Wells Fargo Wind Holdings LLC  

Delaware  

WestFin Insurance Agency, Inc.  

California  

Westlake Insurance Company (Bermuda), Ltd.  

Bermuda  

Westwood Vistas GP, LLC  

Delaware  

WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

WF Investment Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

WF PCCP Co-Invest LLC  

Delaware  

WF Penta Wind, LLC  

Delaware  

WFC Holdings Corporation  

Delaware  

WFDS Lease Originations Ltd.  

Delaware  

WF-SE-I SOLAR STATUTORY TRUST   

Connecticut  

WF-SPWR I SOLAR STATUTORY TRUST   

Connecticut  

WF-SUNE-CASCADE SOLAR STATUTORY TRUST  

Connecticut  

WF-SUNE-EPE SOLAR STATUTORY TRUST  

Connecticut  

WF-SUNE-SPS SOLAR STATUTORY TRUST  

Connecticut  

WF-SUNE-XII Solar Statutory Trust  

Delaware  

Wheels Exchange, LLC  

Delaware  

Whippet Funding, LLC  

Delaware  

WIBC Aruba N.V.  

Aruba  

WIH CDO, LLC  

Delaware  

WIH Holdings  

Mauritius  

William Byrd Hotel Associates, L.P.  

Virginia  

Winchester REO, LLC  

North Carolina  

Wind Joint Venture LLC  

Delaware  

WLH 2008-1, LLC  

Delaware  

World Mortgage Company  

Colorado  

World Savings, Inc.  

California  

WPFC Asset Funding LLC  

Delaware  

WR Land Three, LLC  

Delaware  

WREK Retail I, LLC  

Delaware  

WS Aftermarket Services Corporation  

Delaware  

WTC Property Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 8
 wfc10k_20131231-ex23.htm
 EX-23

Consent of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm   

  The
Board of Directors  
Wells Fargo   Company:   

  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the
registration statements noted below on Forms S 3, S-4, and S-8 of Wells
Fargo   Company of our reports dated February 26, 2014, with respect to the
consolidated balance sheet of Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income,
comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years
in the three-year period ended December 31, 2013 and the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, which
reports appear in the December 31, 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Wells Fargo   Company.  

/s/ KPMG LLP                

  San
Francisco, California 
February 26, 2014  

242   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 9
 wfc10k_20131231-ex24.htm
 EX-24

Exhibit 24   

WELLS FARGO  
COMPANY  

Power of Attorney of
Director  

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the
undersigned director of WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a Delaware corporation, does
hereby make, constitute, and appoint JAMES H. QUIGLEY, a director and Chairman
of the Audit and Examination Committee of the Board of Directors, and ENRIQUE
HERNANDEZ, JR., a director and member of the Audit and Examination Committee of
the Board of Directors, and each or either of them, the undersigned s true and
lawful attorneys-in-fact, with power of substitution, for the undersigned and
in the undersigned s name, place, and stead, to sign and affix the
undersigned s name as such director of said Company to an Annual Report on Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, and all amendments thereto,
to be filed by said Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Washington, D.C. under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the rules and
regulations of said Commission, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto
and other supporting documents, with said Commission, granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform
any and all acts necessary or incidental to the performance and execution of
the powers herein expressly granted.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed
this power of attorney this 25th day of February, 2014.  

/s/ JOHN D. BAKER II  

/s/ FEDERICO F. PE A  

/s/ ELAINE L. CHAO  

/s/ JAMES H. QUIGLEY  

/s/ LLOYD H. DEAN  

/s/ JUDITH M. RUNSTAD  

/s/ SUSAN E. ENGEL  

/s/ STEPHEN W. SANGER  

/s/ ENRIQUE HERNANDEZ, JR.  

/s/ JOHN G. STUMPF  

/s/ DONALD M. JAMES  

/s/ SUSAN G. SWENSON  

/s/ CYNTHIA H. MILLIGAN  

243   

</EX-24>

<EX-31>
 10
 wfc10k_20131231-ex31a.htm
 EX-31.(A)

Exhibit 31(a)   

CERTIFICATION    

I, John G. Stumpf, certify
that:  

1.           I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2013, of Wells Fargo   Company;  

  2.           Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain
any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;   

  3.           Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

  4.           The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control
over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:   

  (a) 
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

  (b)       Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;  

  (c) 
Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness
of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered
by this report based on such evaluation; and  

  (d)      Disclosed in this report
any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and  

  5.           The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):   

  (a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the
design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and   

  (b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management
or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting.   

Date: February 26, 2014  

   /s/ JOHN G. STUMPF                                             

  John
G. Stumpf  

  Chief
Executive Officer  

264   

</EX-31>

<EX-31>
 11
 wfc10k_20131231-ex31b.htm
 EX-31.(B)

Exhibit
31(b)   

CERTIFICATION    

I, Timothy J. Sloan, certify
that:  

1.           I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2013, of Wells Fargo   Company;  

  2.           Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain
any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;   

  3.           Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows
of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

  4.           The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are
responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures
(as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control
over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:   

  (a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures,
or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant,
including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;  

  (b)       Designed such
internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over
financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles;      

  (c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s
disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions
about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the
end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  

  (d)      Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
and  

  5.           The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I
have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):   

  (a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and   

  (b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.   

Date: February 26, 2014  

   /s/ TIMOTHY J.
SLOAN                                        

  Timothy
J. Sloan   

  Chief
Financial Officer  

265   

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 12
 wfc10k_20131231-ex32a.htm
 EX-32.(A)

Exhibit 32(a)   

Certifications Pursuant to    

   18 U.S.C. Section 1350,   

   As Adopted Pursuant to   

   Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002         

In connection
with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wells Fargo   Company (the
 Company ) for the year ended December 31, 2013, as filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, John G. Stumpf,
Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350,
as adopted pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)        The Report fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and     

(2)        The information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company.  

/    s    / JOHN G. STUMPF                                                 

  John
G. Stumpf  

  Chief
Executive Officer  

  Wells
Fargo   Company  

  February 26,
2014  

266   

</EX-32>

<EX-32>
 13
 wfc10k_20131231-ex32b.htm
 EX-32.(B)

Exhibit
32(b)   

Certifications Pursuant to    

   18 U.S.C. Section 1350,   

   As Adopted Pursuant to   

   Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    

In connection
with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wells Fargo   Company (the
 Company ) for the year ended December 31, 2013, as filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Timothy J. Sloan,
Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350,
as adopted pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)        The Report fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and     

(2)        The information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company.  

/s/
TIMOTHY J. SLOAN                                            

  Timothy
J. Sloan   

  Chief
Financial Officer  

  Wells
Fargo   Company  

  February 26,
2014  

267   

</EX-32>

<EX-99>
 14
 wfc10k_20131231-ex99.htm
 EX-99

Exhibit 99   

   Description
of Replacement Capital Covenants of   

   Wells
Fargo   Company and Wachovia Corporation   

(1)                
  On   December 5, 2006, Wells Fargo Capital X issued 5.95% Capital Securities
(the Capital Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase from the Parent
5.95% Capital Efficient Notes (the Notes) due 2086 (scheduled maturity 2036).
When it issued the Notes, the Parent entered into a Replacement Capital
Covenant (the Covenant) in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of
the Parent s 5.625% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2034 that it will not
repay, redeem or repurchase, and that none of its subsidiaries will purchase,
any part of the Notes or the Capital Securities on or before December 1, 2066,
unless the repayment, redemption or repurchase is made from the net cash
proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the
other terms and conditions set forth in the Covenant. For more information,
refer to the Covenant, which was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed December 5, 2006.  

(2)                
  On February 1, 2006, Wachovia
Capital Trust III issued 5.80% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Wachovia Income Trust
Securities (the Wachovia Trust Securities) and used the proceeds to purchase
from Wachovia Remarketable Junior Subordinated Notes due 2042 (the Wachovia
Notes).  In connection with the issuance of the Wachovia Trust Securities, the
Trust and Wachovia entered into a forward stock purchase contract that
obligated the Trust to purchase Wachovia s Non-Cumulative Perpetual
Class A Preferred Stock, Series I (the Series I Preferred Stock) and
obligated Wachovia to make payments to the Trust of 0.60% per annum through the
stock purchase date, March 15, 2011 (the Series I Stock Purchase Date). Prior
to the Series I Stock Purchase Date, the Trust was required to remarket and
sell the Wachovia Notes to third party investors to generate cash proceeds to
satisfy its obligation to purchase the Series I Preferred Stock.  When it
issued the Wachovia Notes, Wachovia entered into a Declaration of Covenant (the
Wachovia Covenant) in which it agreed for the benefit of the holders of
Wachovia s  Floating Rate Junior Subordinated deferrable Interest Debentures
due January 15, 2027 that it will repurchase the Wachovia Trust Securities or
redeem or repurchase shares of  the Series I Preferred Stock only if and to the
extent that the total redemption or repurchase price is equal to or less than
the net cash proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities as
described in the Wachovia Covenant. In connection with the Wachovia
acquisition, the Parent assumed all of Wachovia s obligations under the
Wachovia Covenant.  For more information, refer to the Wachovia Covenant, which
was filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Wachovia s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
February 1, 2006.   

244   

</EX-99>

<EX-101.INS>
 15
 wfc-20131231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 16
 wfc-20131231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 17
 wfc-20131231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 18
 wfc-20131231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 19
 wfc-20131231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 20
 wfc-20131231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

