<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20180301_10-K_edgar_data_72971_0000072971-18-000272_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>97208745</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>2252687</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3430902</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>39815861</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>41258461</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>8434060</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>532</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>18</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000072971-18-000272.hdr.sgml : 20180301
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20180301123837
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000072971-18-000272
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		204
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20171231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20180301
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20180301

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WELLS FARGO & COMPANY/MN
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000072971
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				410449260
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02979
		FILM NUMBER:		18655684

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		420 MONTGOMERY STREET
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94163
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6126671234

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		420 MONTGOMERY STREET
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94163

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	WELLS FARGO & CO/MN
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19981103

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NORWEST CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NORTHWEST BANCORPORATION
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19830516

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000072971-18-000272.txt : 20180301

10-K
 1
 wfc-12312017x10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Document 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 
     Form 10-K 
  Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
  For the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2017              Commission File Number 001 2979 
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
  Delaware                                                           No. 41-0449260 
  (State of incorporation)                      (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 
  420 Montgomery Street, San Francisco, California 94163 
  (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) 
  Registrant s telephone number, including area code:    1-866-878-5865 
    
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                 Title of Each Class 
    Name of Each Exchange 
  on Which Registered 
      Common Stock, par value $1-2/3 
  Warrants to purchase shares of Common Stock (expiring October 28, 2018) 
    New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) 
  NYSE 
      Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/40th interest in a share of 8.00% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series J 
    NYSE 
      7.5% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A Preferred Stock, Series L 
    NYSE 
      Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series N 
    NYSE 
      Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series O 
    NYSE 
      Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series P 
    NYSE 
      Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of 5.85% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series Q 
    NYSE 
      Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of 6.625% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series R 
    NYSE 
      Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series T 
    NYSE 
      Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series V 
    NYSE 
      Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series W 
    NYSE 
      Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series X 
    NYSE 
      Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series Y 
    NYSE 
      Guarantee of 5.80% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Wachovia Income Trust Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust III 
    NYSE 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
  Dividend Equalization Preferred Shares, no par value 
    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes         No          
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes         No          
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.        Yes         No     
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (    232.405 of this chapter)   during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).                    Yes         No          
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (    229.405  of this chapter)   is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                                             
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer,   smaller reporting company,  and  emerging growth company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
  Large accelerated filer                             Accelerated filer         
  Non-accelerated filer          (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)       Smaller reporting company      
  Emerging growth company      
  If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.                       
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell Company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).        Yes         No           
  At   June 30, 2017  , the aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates was approximately   $274.7 billion  , based on a closing price of $55.41. At   February 20, 2018  ,   4,877,753,899   shares of common stock were outstanding. 
  Documents Incorporated by Reference in Form 10-K 

PART I. 
   
                 ITEM 1. 
    BUSINESS 

Wells Fargo   Company is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware and a financial holding company and a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHC Act). Its principal business is to act as a holding company for its subsidiaries. References in this report to  the Parent  mean the holding company. References to  we,   our,   us  or  the Company  mean the holding company and its subsidiaries that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. 
  At December 31,   2017  , we had assets of   $2.0 trillion  , loans of   $957 billion  , deposits of   $1.3 trillion   and stockholders  equity of   $207 billion  . Based on assets, we were the third largest bank holding company in the United States. At December 31,   2017  , Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. was the Company s principal subsidiary with assets of $1.7 trillion, or 90% of the Company s assets. 
  At December 31,   2017  , we had   262,700   active, full-time equivalent team members. 
  Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, are available for free at   www.wellsfargo.com/about/investor-relations/filings   as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They are also available for free on the SEC s website at   www.sec.gov  .  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 
    
  General 
    
  We are a diversified financial services company. We provide retail, commercial and corporate banking services through banking locations and offices, the internet and other distribution channels to individuals, businesses and institutions in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and in other countries. We provide other financial services through subsidiaries engaged in various businesses, principally: wholesale banking, mortgage banking, consumer finance, equipment leasing, agricultural finance, commercial finance, securities brokerage and investment banking, computer and data processing services, trust services, investment advisory services, mortgage-backed securities servicing and venture capital investment. 
  We have three operating segments for management reporting purposes: Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth and Investment Management. The   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders includes financial information and descriptions of these operating segments. 
    
  Competition 
    
  The financial services industry is highly competitive. Our subsidiaries compete with financial services providers such as banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, investment banks and mutual fund companies. They also face increased competition from nonbank institutions such as brokerage houses, private equity firms and online lending companies, as well as from financial services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. Many of these competitors enjoy fewer regulatory constraints and some may have lower cost structures. 
  Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. Combinations of this type could significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. 

1 

REGULATION AND SUPERVISION 
    
  We describe below, and in Note 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions) and Note 27 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements included in the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders, the material elements of the regulatory framework applicable to us. Banking statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies, as well as foreign governments and financial regulators, and a change in them, including changes in how they are interpreted or implemented, could have a material effect on our business. The regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies is intended to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking system as a whole, and not necessarily investors in bank holding companies such as the Company. 
  Statutes, regulations and policies could restrict our ability to diversify into other areas of financial services, acquire depository institutions, and pay dividends on our capital stock. They may also require us to provide financial support to one or more of our subsidiary banks, maintain capital balances in excess of amounts desired by management, and pay higher deposit insurance premiums as a result of a general deterioration in the financial condition of depository institutions. See the  Regulatory Matters  and "Risk Factors" sections in the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders for additional information. 
    
  General 
    
  Parent Bank Holding Company.    As a bank holding company, the Parent is subject to regulation under the BHC Act and to inspection, examination and supervision by its primary regulator, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board or FRB). The Parent is also subject to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC. As a company with securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Parent is subject to the rules of the NYSE for listed companies. 
    
  Subsidiary Banks.    Our subsidiary national banks, and their subsidiaries, are subject to regulation and examination primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and also by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the FRB, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), the SEC and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). The foreign branches and representative offices of our subsidiary national banks are subject to regulation and examination by their respective foreign financial regulators as well as by the OCC and the FRB. Foreign subsidiaries of our national bank subsidiaries may be subject to the laws and regulations of the foreign countries in which they conduct business. Our state-chartered bank is subject to primary federal regulation and examination by the FDIC and, in addition, is regulated and examined by its state banking department. 
    
  Nonbank Subsidiaries.    Many of our nonbank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the FRB and other applicable federal and state agencies. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by applicable state insurance regulatory agencies, as well as the FRB. Our brokerage subsidiaries are  

regulated by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and, in some cases, the CFTC and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and state securities regulators. Our other nonbank subsidiaries may be subject to the laws and regulations of the federal government and/or the various states as well as foreign countries in which they conduct business. 
    
  Parent Bank Holding Company Activities 
    
   Financial in Nature  Requirement.    We became a financial holding company effective March 13, 2000. We continue to maintain our status as a bank holding company for purposes of other FRB regulations. As a bank holding company that has elected to become a financial holding company pursuant to the BHC Act, we may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature.  Financial in nature  activities include securities underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking; and activities that the FRB, in consultation with the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, determines to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity.  Complementary activities  are activities that the FRB determines upon application to be complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a safety and soundness risk. 
  FRB approval is generally not required for us to acquire a company (other than a bank holding company, bank or savings association) engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. Prior notice to the FRB may be required, however, if the company to be acquired has total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. Prior FRB approval is required before we may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of a bank holding company, bank or savings association. In addition, the FRB has implemented a final rule under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) that also prohibits our ability to merge, acquire all or substantially all of the assets of, or acquire control of another company if our total resulting consolidated liabilities would exceed 10% of the aggregate consolidated liabilities of all financial companies. 
  Because we are a financial holding company, if any of our subsidiary banks receives a rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (CRA), of less than satisfactory, we will be prohibited, until the rating is raised to satisfactory or better, from engaging in new activities or acquiring companies other than bank holding companies, banks or savings associations, except that we could engage in new activities, or acquire companies engaged in activities, that are closely related to banking under the BHC Act. In March 2017, we announced that the OCC had downgraded our most recent CRA rating, which covers the years 2009-2012, to "Needs to Improve" due to previously issued regulatory consent orders and, thus, we are subject to, among other things, the prohibitions noted above. In addition, if the FRB finds that the Company or any one of our subsidiary banks is not well capitalized or well managed, we would be required to enter into an agreement with the FRB to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements and which may contain additional limitations or conditions. Until corrected, we could be prohibited from engaging in any new  

2 

activity or acquiring companies engaged in activities that are not closely related to banking under the BHC Act without prior FRB approval. If we fail to correct any such condition within a prescribed period, the FRB could order us to divest our banking subsidiaries or, in the alternative, to cease engaging in activities other than those closely related to banking under the BHC Act. For more information about our CRA rating, see the "Regulatory Matters" and "Risk Factors" sections of the 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders. 
    
  Interstate Banking  .  Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Act (Riegle-Neal Act), a bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company not control, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions nationwide or, unless the acquisition is the bank holding company s initial entry into the state, more than 30% of such deposits in the state (or such lesser or greater amount set by the state). The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines, subject to the same deposit limits noted above, thereby creating interstate branches. Banks are also permitted to acquire and to establish new branches in other states. 
    
  Regulatory Approval.    In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal banking regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, and future prospects including current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution s record of compliance under the CRA, the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities and the risk to the stability of the United States banking system. 
    
  Dividend Restrictions 
    
  The Parent is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiary banks and other subsidiaries. A significant source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and principal and interest on our debt is dividends from the Parent s subsidiaries. Various federal and state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends the Parent s subsidiary banks and certain other subsidiaries may pay without regulatory approval. Federal banking regulators have the authority to prohibit the Parent s subsidiary banks from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their businesses. The payment of dividends, depending on the financial condition of the bank in question, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice. The ability of the Parent s subsidiary banks to pay dividends in the future is currently, and could be further, influenced by bank regulatory policies and capital guidelines. For information about the restrictions applicable to the Parent s subsidiary banks, see Note 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions) to Financial Statements included in the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders. 
  Furthermore, under a Support Agreement (the  Support Agreement ) dated June 28, 2017 among the Parent, WFC Holdings, LLC, an intermediate holding company and subsidiary of the Parent (the  IHC ), and Wells Fargo Bank,  

N.A., Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, and Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC, each an indirect subsidiary of the Parent, the IHC may be restricted from making dividend payments to the Parent if certain liquidity and/or capital metrics fall below defined triggers. Any such restriction could materially and adversely impact the Parent s liquidity and its ability to satisfy its debt and other obligations, as well as its ability to make dividend payments on its common and preferred stock. See the  Regulatory Matters  and  Risk Factors  sections of the 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders for additional information on the Support Agreement. 
  In addition to these restrictions on the ability of our subsidiary banks to pay dividends to us, the FRB requires large bank holding companies (BHCs), including Wells Fargo, to submit annual capital plans and to obtain regulatory approval before making capital distributions, such as the payment of dividends. The FRB also finalized rules implementing in the United States the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision s regulatory capital guidelines, including the reforms known as Basel III, which established various capital requirements for U.S. banking organizations. Moreover, federal banking regulators have finalized a rule that enhances the supplementary leverage ratio requirements for large BHCs, like Wells Fargo, and their insured depository institutions. The rule, which became effective on January 1, 2018, requires a covered BHC to maintain a supplementary leverage ratio of at least 5% (comprised of a 3% minimum requirement and a supplementary leverage buffer of 2%) to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. The rule also requires that all of our insured depository institutions maintain a supplementary leverage ratio of 6% under applicable regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. We are also subject to the FRB's rule implementing an additional capital surcharge on those U.S. banking organizations, such as the Company, that are designated as global systemically important banks (G-SIBs). The failure to maintain any of these minimum capital ratios and capital buffers could result in limitations or restrictions on our ability to make capital distributions. 
  In addition, the FRB's enhanced supervision regulations for large BHCs, like Wells Fargo, impose capital distribution restrictions, including on the payment of dividends, upon the occurrence of capital, stress test, risk management, or liquidity risk management triggers.  
    
  Holding Company Structure 
    
  Transfer of Funds from Subsidiary Banks.    The Parent s subsidiary banks are subject to restrictions under federal law that limit the transfer of funds or other items of value from such subsidiaries to the Parent and its nonbank subsidiaries (including affiliates) in so-called  covered transactions.  In general, covered transactions include loans and other extensions of credit, investments and asset purchases, as well as certain other transactions involving the transfer of value from a subsidiary bank to an affiliate or for the benefit of an affiliate. Unless an exemption applies, covered transactions by a subsidiary bank with a single affiliate are limited to 10% of the subsidiary bank s capital and surplus and, with respect to all covered transactions with affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of the subsidiary bank s capital and surplus. Also, loans and extensions of credit to affiliates generally are required to be secured by qualifying collateral. A bank s transactions with its nonbank affiliates are also generally required to be on arm s length terms. 

3 

Source of Strength.    The FRB has a policy that a BHC is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when the BHC may not have the resources to provide the support. 
  The OCC may order an assessment of the Parent if the capital of one of its national bank subsidiaries were to become impaired. If the Parent failed to pay the assessment within three months, the OCC could order the sale of the Parent s stock in the national bank to cover the deficiency. 
    
  Depositor Preference.    In the event of the  liquidation or other resolution  of an insured depository institution, the claims of deposits payable in the United States (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, claims of insured and uninsured U.S. depositors, along with claims of the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured creditors, including the Parent, and depositors whose deposits are solely payable at such insured depository institution s non-U.S. offices. 
    
  Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions.    All of the Company s subsidiary banks are insured by the FDIC. FDIC-insured depository institutions can be held liable for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of an FDIC-insured depository institution controlled by the same bank holding company, and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to an FDIC-insured depository institution that is in danger of default and that is controlled by the same bank holding company.  Default  means generally the appointment of a conservator or receiver.  In danger of default  means generally the existence of certain conditions indicating that a default is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance. 
    
  Dodd-Frank Act       
    
  The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted on July 21, 2010, has resulted in broad changes to the U.S. financial system and is the most significant financial reform legislation since the 1930s. The Dodd-Frank Act and the numerous rules to implement its provisions have resulted in enhanced regulation and supervision of large BHCs, such as Wells Fargo. This includes, among other things, rules to promote financial stability and prevent or mitigate the risks that may arise from the material distress or failure of a large BHC; enhance consumer protections; prohibit proprietary trading; and implement enhanced prudential requirements for large BHCs regarding risk-based capital and leverage, risk and liquidity management, stress testing, and recovery and resolution planning. The Dodd-Frank Act, including current and future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, has affected, and we expect will continue to affect, most of our businesses in some way, either directly through regulation of specific activities or indirectly through regulation of concentration risks, capital or liquidity. For more information about the Dodd-Frank Act and its effect on our business, see the  Regulatory Matters  and "Risk Factors" sections of the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders. 

Capital Requirements and Planning 
    
  The Company and each of our insured depository institutions are subject to various regulatory capital adequacy requirements administered by federal banking regulators. These capital rules, among other things, establish required minimum ratios relating capital to different categories of assets and exposures. Federal banking regulators have also finalized rules to impose a supplementary leverage ratio on large BHCs like Wells Fargo and our insured depository institutions and to implement a liquidity coverage ratio. The FRB has also finalized rules to address the amount of equity and unsecured long-term debt a G-SIB must hold to improve its resolvability and resiliency, often referred to as total loss absorbing capacity.  
  From time to time, the FRB and the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) propose changes and amendments to, and issue interpretations of, risk-based capital guidelines and related reporting instructions. In addition, the FRB closely monitors capital levels of the institutions it supervises and may require such institutions to modify capital levels based on FRB determinations. Such determinations, proposals or interpretations could, if implemented in the future, affect our reported capital ratios and net risk-adjusted assets. 
  As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act) requires federal banking regulators to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards for institutions for which they are the primary federal regulator. The standards relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure, executive compensation and risk management. The agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards. 
  The FDI Act requires federal banking regulators to take  prompt corrective action  with respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. A depository institution s treatment for purposes of the prompt corrective action provisions will depend upon how its capital levels compare to various capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation. 
  In addition, the FRB's capital plan rule requires large BHCs to submit capital plans annually for review to determine if the FRB has any objections before making any capital distributions. The rule requires updates to capital plans in the event of material changes in a BHC s risk profile, including as a result of any significant acquisitions. Federal banking regulators also require stress tests to evaluate whether an institution has sufficient capital to continue to operate during periods of adverse economic and financial conditions. 
  For more information on our capital requirements and planning, see the  Capital Management  section of the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders. 
    
  Deposit Insurance Assessments 
    
  Our subsidiary banks, including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., are members of the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits of our banks up to prescribed limits for each depositor and funds the DIF through assessments on member banks. To maintain the DIF, member institutions are assessed an insurance premium based on an assessment base and an assessment rate. 
  The Dodd-Frank Act gave the FDIC greater discretion to manage the DIF, changed the assessment base from domestic  

4 

deposits to consolidated average assets less average tangible equity, and mandated a minimum Designated Reserve Ratio (reserve ratio or DRR) of 1.35%. The FDIC Board adopted a Restoration Plan to ensure that the DIF reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, and, in March 2016, issued a final rule to meet this DRR level. The final rule, which became effective on July 1, 2016, imposes on insured depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, such as Wells Fargo, a surcharge of 4.5 cents per $100 of their assessment base, after making certain adjustments. The surcharge is in addition to the base assessments paid by the affected institutions and could significantly increase the overall amount of their deposit insurance assessments. The FDIC expects the surcharge to be in effect for approximately two years, however, if the DIF reserve ratio does not reach 1.35% by December 31, 2018, the final rule provides that the FDIC will impose a shortfall assessment on any bank that was subject to the surcharge. In addition to ensuring that the DIF reserve ratio reaches the statutory minimum of 1.35% by September 30, 2020, the FDIC Board has also finalized a comprehensive, long-range plan for DIF management, whereby the DRR has been targeted at 2%. 
  In addition to the base assessments and any surcharge, all FDIC-insured depository institutions must also pay a quarterly assessment towards interest payments on bonds (commonly referred to as FICO bonds) issued by the Financing Corporation, a federal corporation chartered under the authority of the Federal Housing Finance Board. This assessment was 0.56% of the assessable deposit base for first quarter   2017  , and was 0.54% for the second, third and fourth quarters of   2017  . For the year ended December 31,   2017  , the Company s FDIC deposit insurance assessments, including FICO assessments, totaled $1.3 billion. 
  The FDIC may terminate a depository institution s deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for one or more of our bank subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, depending on the collective size of the particular banks involved. 
    
  Fiscal and Monetary Policies 
    
  Our business and earnings are affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in United States government securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings of depository institutions, (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against depository institutions  deposits, and (d) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the FRB may have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Privacy Provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Restrictions on Affiliate Marketing 
    
  Federal banking regulators, as required under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the GLB Act), have adopted rules limiting the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. The rules require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to nonaffiliated third parties. The privacy provisions of the GLB Act affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial services companies and conveyed to outside vendors. Federal financial regulators have issued regulations under the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act that have the effect of increasing the length of the waiting period, after privacy disclosures are provided to new customers, before information can be shared among different affiliated companies for the purpose of marketing products and services by those affiliated companies.  
    
  Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
    
  The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) implemented a broad range of corporate governance and accounting measures to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies, and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of disclosures under federal securities laws. We are subject to Sarbanes-Oxley because we are required to file periodic reports with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Among other things, Sarbanes-Oxley and/or its implementing regulations established membership requirements and additional responsibilities for our audit committee, imposed restrictions on the relationship between us and our outside auditors (including restrictions on the types of non-audit services our auditors may provide to us), imposed additional responsibilities for our external financial statements on our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, expanded the disclosure requirements for our corporate insiders, required our management to evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and required our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report on our internal control over financial reporting. 
    
  Patriot Act 
    
  The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (Patriot Act) is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to work together to combat terrorism on a variety of fronts. The Patriot Act has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers, dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act requires the implementation of policies and procedures relating to anti money laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act also requires federal banking regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition. 

5 

Future Legislation or Regulation 
    
  Economic, market and political conditions during the past few years have led to a significant amount of legislation and regulation in the U.S. and abroad affecting the financial services industry, as well as heightened expectations and scrutiny of financial services companies from banking regulators. Further legislative changes and additional regulations may change our operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such legislation and regulations could increase our cost of doing business, affect our compensation structure, restrict or expand the activities in which we may engage or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We cannot predict whether future legislative proposals will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that they, or any implementing regulations, would have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 

Additional information in response to this Item 1 can be found in the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Review  and under  Financial Statements.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 
   
                 ITEM 1A. 
    RISK FACTORS 

Information in response to this Item 1A can be found in this report on pages 2-6 and in the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Review   Risk Factors.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 

ITEM 1B. 
    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

Not applicable. 

ITEM 2. 
    PROPERTIES 

December 31, 2017 
       
    Approximate square footage 
  (in millions) 
      We currently occupy properties in: 

United States 

San Francisco, California 

420 Montgomery Street (corporate headquarters) 
      
    0.3 
      All other San Francisco locations 
      
    4.2 
      Total San Francisco, California 
      
    4.5 

Top 10 other U.S. locations: 

Charlotte-Concord-Gastonia, NC-SC 
      
    7.4 
      Minneapolis-St. Paul-Bloomington, MN-WI 
       
    6.0 
      Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim, CA 
       
    4.1 
      Phoenix-Mesa-Scottsdale, AZ 
       
    3.6 
      New York-Newark-Jersey City, NY-NJ-PA 
       
    3.5 
      Des Moines-West Des Moines, IA 
       
    3.4 
      St. Louis, MO-IL 
       
    2.5 
      Philadelphia-Camden-Wilmington, PA-NJ-DE-MD 
       
    2.2 
      Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington, TX 
       
    1.9 
      Atlanta-Sandy Springs-Roswell, GA 
       
    1.7 
      All other U.S. locations 
       
    47.4 
      Total United States 
       
    88.2 

Top 5 International locations: 

India 
       
    1.5 
      Philippines 
       
    0.5 
      Canada 
      
    0.2 
      United Kingdom 
      
    0.2 
      China 
      
    0.2 
      All other international locations 
       
    0.3 
      Total International 
       
    2.9 

Total square footage property occupied 
      
    91.1 

As of   December 31, 2017  , we provided banking, investments, mortgage and consumer and commercial finance through more than 8,300 locations under ownership and lease agreements.  

We continue to evaluate our owned and leased properties and may determine from time to time that certain of our properties are no longer necessary for our operations. There is no  

6 

assurance that we will be able to dispose of any excess properties or that we will not incur charges in connection with such dispositions, which could be material to our operating results in a given period. 
    
  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
    
  Additional information in response to this Item 2 can be found in the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Statements   Notes to Financial Statements   Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets).  That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 
   
                 ITEM 3. 
    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 

Information in response to this Item 3 can be found in the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Statements   Notes to Financial Statements   Note 15 (Legal Actions).  That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 
   
                 ITEM 4. 
    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 

Not applicable. 

PART II 
   
                 ITEM 5. 
    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

MARKET INFORMATION  
    
  The Company s common stock is listed on the NYSE (symbol  WFC ). The Quarterly Financial Data table of the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders provides the quarterly prices of, and quarterly dividends paid on, the Company s common stock for the two-year period ended   December 31, 2017  , and is incorporated herein by reference. Prices shown represent the daily high and low, and the quarter-end sale prices of the Company s common stock as reported on the NYSE Composite Transaction Reporting System for the periods indicated. The  Stock Performance  section of the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders provides stockholder return comparisons and is incorporated herein by reference. At February 20,   2018  , there were 173,086 holders of record of the Company s common stock. 

7 

DIVIDENDS 
    
  The dividend restrictions discussions on page 3 of this report and in the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Statements   Notes to Financial Statements   Note 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions)  are incorporated into this item by reference. 
    
  REPURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
    
  In January 2016, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 350 million shares of our common stock. The authorization covers shares repurchased to meet team member benefit plan requirements. The Company maintains a variety of retirement plans for its team members and typically is a net issuer of shares of common stock to these plans. From time to time, it also purchases shares of common stock from these  

plans to accommodate team member preferences. Share repurchases are subtracted from the Company s repurchase authority without offset for share issuances. Shares may be repurchased as part of employee stock option exercises, from the different benefit plans or in the open market, subject to regulatory approval. 
  The amount and timing of stock repurchases will be based on various factors, including our capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for employee benefit plans and acquisitions, market conditions (including the trading price of our stock), and regulatory and legal considerations. In June 2010, our Board of Directors also authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of warrants to purchase our common stock. The warrants are listed on the NYSE under the symbol  WFCWS.  The amount and timing of warrant repurchases will be based on various factors including market conditions. See the  Capital Management  section in the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders for additional information about our common stock and warrant repurchases. 

(1) 
    All shares were repurchased under an authorization covering up to   350 million   shares of common stock approved by the Board of Directors and publicly announced by the Company on January 26, 2016. Unless modified or revoked by the Board, this authorization does not expire. 

(1) 
    Warrants are repurchased under the authorization covering up to   $1 billion   in warrants approved by the Board of Directors (ratified and approved on June 22, 2010). Unless modified or revoked by the Board, this authorization does not expire. 

ITEM 6. 
    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

Information in response to this Item 6 can be found in the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Review  in Table 1. That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 

ITEM 7. 
    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANACIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Information in response to this Item 7 can be found in the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Review.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 

8 

ITEM 7A. 
    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Information in response to this Item 7A can be found in the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Review   Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 
   
                 ITEM 8. 
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

Information in response to this Item 8 can be found in the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders under  Financial Statements,  under  Notes to Financial Statements  and under  Quarterly Financial Data.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 

ITEM 9. 
    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 

Not applicable. 
   
                 ITEM 9A. 
    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 

Information in response to this Item 9A can be found in the 
  2017   Annual Report to Stockholders under  Controls and 
  Procedures.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 
   
                 ITEM 9B. 
    OTHER INFORMATION 

Not applicable. 

PART III  
    
                 ITEM 10. 
    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
    
  Hope A. Hardison (age 53) 
  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since September 2015 and Human Resources Director since September 2010; 
  Executive Vice President (Human Resources) from September 2010 to September 2015. 
  Ms. Hardison has served with the Company or its predecessors for 25 years. 
    
  Richard D. Levy (age 60) 
  Executive Vice President and Controller since February 2007. 
  Mr. Levy has served with the Company for 15 years. 
    
  Michael J. Loughlin (age 62) 
  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer since July 2011. 
  Mr. Loughlin has served with the Company or its predecessors for 36 years. 
    
  Mary T. Mack (age 55) 
  Senior Executive Vice President (Consumer Lending) since December 2017 and Senior Executive Vice President (Community Banking) since November 2016; 
  Executive Vice President (Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC, f/k/a Wells Fargo Advisors, LLC) from December 2009 to November 2016. 
  Ms. Mack has served with the Company or its predecessors for 33 years. 
    
  Avid Modjtabai (age 56) 
  Senior Executive Vice President (Payments, Virtual Solutions and Innovation) since November 2016; 
  Senior Executive Vice President (Consumer Lending) from July 2011 to November 2016. 
  Ms. Modjtabai has served with the Company or its predecessors for 24 years. 

9 

C. Allen Parker (age 62) 
  Senior Executive Vice President and General Counsel since March 2017; 
  Presiding Partner at the law firm of Cravath, Swaine   Moore LLP from January 2013 to December 2016; 
  Deputy Presiding Partner at Cravath, Swaine   Moore LLP from January 2007 to December 2012; 
  Partner in the Corporate Department at Cravath, Swaine   Moore LLP from June 1990 to March 2017. 
  Mr. Parker has served with the Company for 1 year. 
    
  Perry G. Pelos (age 54) 
  Senior Executive Vice President (Wholesale Banking) since November 2016; 
  Executive Vice President (Commercial Banking Services Group) from January 2016 to November 2016; 
  Executive Vice President (Commercial Banking, f/k/a Middle Market Banking) from May 2009 to January 2016. 
  Mr. Pelos has served with the Company or its predecessors for 30 years. 
    
  John R. Shrewsberry (age 52) 
  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2014; 
  President and Chief Executive Officer (Wells Fargo Securities, LLC) from November 2009 to May 2014. 
  Mr. Shrewsberry has served with the Company or its predecessors for 19 years. 
    
  Timothy J. Sloan (age 57) 
  President since November 2015 and Chief Executive Officer since October 2016; 
  Chief Operating Officer from November 2015 to October 2016; 
  Senior Executive Vice President (Wholesale Banking) from May 2014 to November 2015; 
  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from February 2011 to May 2014. 
  Mr. Sloan has served with the Company or its predecessors for 30 years. 
    
  Jonathan G. Weiss (age 60) 
  Senior Executive Vice President (Wealth and Investment Management) since July 2017; 
  President and Chief Executive Officer of Wells Fargo Securities, LLC from May 2014 to June 2017; 
  Managing Director of Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (Investment Banking, Securities   Markets, f/k/a Investment Banking   Capital Markets) from June 2008 to May 2014. 
  Mr. Weiss has served with the Company or its predecessors for 12 years. 
    
  There is no family relationship between any of the Company s executive officers or directors. All executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. 

AUDIT COMMITTEE INFORMATION 
    
  The Audit and Examination Committee is a standing audit committee of the Board of Directors established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Committee has five members: John D. Baker II, Theodore F. Craver, Jr., Federico F. Pe a, James H. Quigley (Chair), and Ronald L. Sargent. Each member is independent, as independence for audit committee members is defined by NYSE rules. The Board of Directors has determined, in its business judgment, that each member of the Audit and Examination Committee is financially literate, as required by NYSE rules, and that each qualifies as an  audit committee financial expert  as defined by SEC regulations. 

CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS 
  CONDUCT 
    
  The Company s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applicable to team members (including executive officers) as well as directors, the Company s corporate governance guidelines, and the charters for the Audit and Examination, Governance and Nominating, Human Resources, Corporate Responsibility, Credit, Finance, and Risk Committees are available at   www.wellsfargo.com/about/corporate/governance  . 

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
    
  Additional information in response to this Item 10 can be found in the Company s   2018   Proxy Statement under  Ownership of Our Common Stock   Directors and Executive Officers   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,  under  Corporate Governance   Item 1   Election of Directors   Director Nominees for Election,  and  Corporate Governance   Director Election Standard and Nomination Process   Refreshing the Board and Nominating Directors.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 

ITEM 11. 
    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

Information in response to this Item 11 can be found in the Company s   2018   Proxy Statement under  Corporate Governance   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,  under  Corporate Governance   Director Compensation,  under  Information About Related Persons   Related Person Transactions,  and under  Executive Compensation   Compensation Committee Report,   Executive Compensation    Compensation Discussion   Analysis,   Executive Compensation   Executive Compensation Tables,  and  Executive Compensation   Incentive Compensation Risk Management and Team Member Performance Management,   

10 

and  Executive Compensation   Our Workforce.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 
   
                 ITEM 12. 
    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION 
    
  The following table provides information about our equity compensation plans in effect on   December 31, 2017  , separately aggregated for plans approved by stockholders and for plans not approved by stockholders. A description of the material features of each equity compensation plan not approved by stockholders follows the table. All outstanding awards relate to shares of our common stock. Information is as of   December 31, 2017  , unless otherwise indicated.  

Equity Compensation Plan Information 

(a) 

(b) 
      
    (c) 

# of shares remaining  

# of shares to be  

available for future  

issued upon exercise  

Weighted-average  

issuance under equity  

of outstanding  

exercise price of  

compensation plans  

options, warrants  

outstanding options,  

(excluding securities  

Plan category 
      
    and rights  

warrants and rights (1)  

reflected in column (a))  

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 
      
    61,158,332 

(2) 
      
    $ 
    18.90 

149,844,030 
      
    (3) 
      Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 
      
    10,088,811 

(4) 
      
    78.16 

2,125,972 
      
    (5) 

Total 
      
    71,247,143 

32.76 

151,970,002 

(1) 
      
    Does not reflect restricted share rights (RSRs), restricted share units (RSUs), performance share awards (PSAs) or deferred compensation benefits because they have no exercise price. 
      
      (2) 
      
    For the Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (LTICP), consists of 15,434,626 shares subject to options, 34,894,376 shares subject to RSRs, and a maximum of 7,576,593 performance shares. For the Supplemental 401(k) Plan, consists of 2,498,849 shares issuable upon distribution of benefits. For the Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan (Directors Plan), consists of 104,900 shares subject to options, 300,967 shares issuable upon distribution of deferred stock awards, and 348,021 shares issuable upon distribution of deferred compensation benefits. 
      
      (3) 
      
    We could have issued the number of shares of our common stock indicated in the following table pursuant to any of the award types listed for the plan or, if indicated for the plan, pursuant to distributions of deferred compensation benefits. Each share of common stock issued under the LTICP pursuant to awards other than options or SARs counts as two shares. 

Plan 
      
    # of shares  

Award types  

LTICP 
      
    147,461,838 

Stock options, stock, SARs, restricted stock, RSRs, performance shares, performance units 
      
      Supplemental 401(k) Plan 
      
    1,914,822 

Deferral distribution  
      
      Directors Plan 
      
    467,370 

Stock options, deferral distribution  

(4) 
      
    For the amended and restated Wachovia Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive Plan (2003 SIP), consists of 4,744,553 shares subject to options granted in February 2009 to legacy Wachovia team members, which used substantially all remaining available shares.  No awards have been granted since February 2009, and no future awards will be granted under the 2003 SIP.  For the other plans, consists of 5,344,258 shares of common stock issuable upon distribution of deferred compensation benefits. 
      
      (5) 
      
    We could have issued the number of shares of our common stock indicated in the following table pursuant to distributions of deferred compensation benefits. No information is provided for the 2003 SIP, the Norwest Corporation Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan or the Norwest Corporation Directors  Stock Deferral Plan because no future awards or deferrals will be made under these plans and because column (a) reflects all shares issuable under those plans upon exercise or distribution of outstanding awards or deferred compensation benefits. 

Plan 
      
    # of shares  

Award types  

Deferred Compensation Plan 
      
    1,921,808 

Deferral distribution  

Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors 
      
    204,164 

Deferral distribution  

11 

Material Features of Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Stockholders 
    
  The 2003 SIP  .  The amended and restated Wachovia Corporation 2003 Stock Incentive Plan (2003 SIP) was originally approved by Wachovia s shareholders in 2003 and prior to the merger had been used for equity awards to Wachovia s executive officers and other key employees. We assumed the 2003 SIP in the merger and in February 2009 used substantially all remaining available shares for stock option grants to legacy Wachovia team members. No awards have been granted since then, and no future awards will be granted under the 2003 SIP. 
  At December 31,   2017  , only options were outstanding under the 2003 SIP. The options generally expire on the tenth anniversary of the grant date and vest ratably over a three-year period from the grant date. The option price is payable to us in full by methods the Board s Human Resources Committee (HRC) designates, including, but not limited to, in cash or its equivalent, by tendering or withholding shares of our common stock having a fair market value at the time of exercise equal to the total option price, or by a combination of the foregoing. Unless the HRC determines otherwise or except as prohibited by applicable law, options may also be exercised by a  cashless exercise  where the participant gives irrevocable instructions to a broker to promptly deliver to us the amount of sale proceeds from the shares covered by the option exercised, together with any withholding taxes due to the Company. The proceeds from any cash payments upon option exercise are added to our general funds and used for general corporate purposes.  
    
  Deferred Compensation Plan  .  Under the Deferred Compensation Plan eligible team members may defer receipt of salary, bonuses and certain other compensation subject to the terms of the plan. Deferral elections are irrevocable once made except for limited re-deferral opportunities. We treat amounts deferred by a participant as if invested in the earnings options selected by the participant, and determine the deferred compensation benefit payable to the participant based on the performance of those earnings options. The plan offers a number of earnings options, including one based on our common stock with dividends reinvested. We generally distribute amounts allocated to the common stock option in shares of common stock. Participants have no direct interest in any of the earnings options and are general unsecured creditors of the Company with respect to their deferred compensation benefits under the plan. 
    
  Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors  .  Under the Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors participants who performed qualifying investment or other financial services for participating affiliates as independent contractors were able to defer all or part of their eligible compensation payable to them by the affiliate subject to the terms of the plan. Deferral elections were irrevocable once made. Amounts deferred by a participant were treated as if invested in the earnings options selected by the participant, which determine the deferred compensation benefit payable to the participant. The plan offered a number of earnings options, including one based on our common stock with dividends reinvested. We generally distribute amounts allocated to the common stock option in shares of common stock. No future deferrals may be made under this plan and participants may no longer reallocate their existing account balances under the plan among different  

investment options. Shares remaining available for issuance under the plan consist of shares issuable as a result of amounts credited to participant accounts denominated in our common stock to reflect cash dividends paid on the common stock. The plan is sponsored by a wholly owned subsidiary, WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. We have guaranteed its obligations under the plan. Participants have no direct interest in any of the earnings options and are general unsecured creditors of the plan sponsor and the Company with respect to their deferred compensation benefits under the plan. 
    
  Norwest Corporation Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan  .  Under the Norwest Corporation Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan we awarded shares of common stock to non-employee directors. The plan allowed participants to defer receipt of all or a portion of their awards, with dividends reinvested, until a future year or years as selected by the participants subject to the terms of the plan. Participants can elect one time to defer commencement of distribution of their deferral accounts if the election is made sufficiently in advance of the original distribution commencement date and the new distribution commencement date is sufficiently beyond the original distribution commencement date. Participants have no direct interest in the shares deferred under the plan and are general unsecured creditors of the Company with respect to payment of their deferred stock awards under the plan. No future stock awards or deferrals may be made under this plan. 
    
  Norwest Corporation Directors  Stock Deferral Plan  . Under the Norwest Corporation Directors  Stock Deferral Plan a participating director could defer receipt of all or part of the annual cash retainer and meeting fees payable to the director until a future year or years as selected by the director subject to the terms of the plan. A participating director could elect distribution of his or her deferral account in a lump sum in either cash or whole shares of common stock, or a combination of both. Alternatively, the director could elect to receive the distribution in up to ten annual installments of cash. A participant can elect one time to defer commencement of distribution of his or her deferral account if the election is made sufficiently in advance of the original distribution commencement date and the new distribution commencement date is sufficiently beyond the original distribution commencement date. No future deferrals may be made under this plan. 
    
  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
    
  Additional information in response to this Item 12 can be found in the Company s   2018   Proxy Statement under  Ownership of Our Common Stock   Directors and Executive Officers   Director and Executive Officer Stock Ownership Table  and  Ownership of Our Common Stock   Principal Shareholders.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 

12 

ITEM 13. 
    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 

Information in response to this Item 13 can be found in the Company s   2018   Proxy Statement under  Corporate Governance   Item 1   Election of Directors   Director Independence  and under  Information About Related Persons.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 
   
                 ITEM 14. 
    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 

Information in response to this Item 14 can be found in the Company s   2018   Proxy Statement under  Audit Matters   Item 3   Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for   2018     KPMG Fees  and  Audit Matters   Item 3   Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm for 2018   Audit and Examination Committee Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures.  That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 

PART IV 

ITEM 15. 
    EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

1.      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
    
  The Company s consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, and the report of the independent registered public accounting firm thereon, are set forth in the   2017   Annual Report to Stockholders, and are incorporated into this item by reference. 
    
  2.      FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
    
  All financial statement schedules for the Company have been included in the consolidated financial statements or the related footnotes, or are either inapplicable or not required. 

13 

3.      EXHIBITS 
    
  A list of exhibits to this Form 10-K is set forth below. Stockholders may obtain a copy of any of the following exhibits, upon payment of a reasonable fee, by writing to Wells Fargo   Company, Office of the Corporate Secretary, MAC D1053-300, 301 S. College Street, 30th Floor, Charlotte, North Carolina 28202. 

The Company s SEC file number is 001-2979. On and before November 2, 1998, the Company filed documents with the SEC under the name Norwest Corporation. The former Wells Fargo   Company filed documents under SEC file number 001-6214. The former Wachovia Corporation filed documents under SEC file number 001-10000. 

Exhibit 
  Number 
      
    Description 
      
    Location 
      3(a)  
      
     Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended and in effect on the date hereof.  
      
    Filed herewith. 
      3(b)  
      
     By-Laws.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 1, 2018. 
      4(a)  
      
    See Exhibits 3(a) and 3(b). 

4(b)  
      
    The Company agrees to furnish upon request to the Commission a copy of each instrument defining the rights of holders of senior and subordinated debt of the Company. 

10(a)* 
      
     Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (as amended and restated on April 23, 2013), which includes Performance-Based Compensation Policy.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 26, 2013. 

Amendment to Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 2016.    
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan.      
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. 

Forms of Performance Share Award Agreement: 

For grants on or after February 26, 2018;  
      
    Filed herewith. 

For grants on or after February 28, 2017;  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. 

For grants on or after February 23, 2016;  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

For grants on or after February 24, 2015   ; and 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. 

For grants on or after February 26, 2013   . 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. 

Forms of Restricted Share Rights Award Agreement: 

For grants on or after December 14, 2017;  
      
    Filed herewith. 

For grants on or after February 28, 2017;  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2017. 

For grants on or after February 23, 2016;  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

For grants on or after February 24, 2015;    and 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. 
      *    Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

14 

Exhibit 
  Number 
      
    Description 
      
    Location 

For grants on or after February 26, 2013.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. 

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013. 

Letter Agreement, effective September 27, 2016, between the Company and Carrie Tolstedt.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed September 28, 2016. 
      10(b)* 
      
     Wells Fargo Bonus Plan, as amended effective January 1, 2017.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1o(b) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2017. 

Wells Fargo Bonus Plan, as amended effective January 1, 2015.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2015. 
      10(c)* 
      
     Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended effective January 1, 2008.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective July 1, 2017.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2017. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 2017.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. 

Amendments to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective August 1, 2016 and January 1, 2017.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2016. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 2016.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 2015.   
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2014. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 2013.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 2011.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective December 1, 2009.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. 
      10(d)* 
      
     Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. 

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan, effective April 1, 2013.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013. 

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan, effective January 1, 2013.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013. 

15 

Exhibit 
  Number 
      
    Description 
      
    Location 

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan, effective January 24, 2012.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. 

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan, effective January 25, 2011.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. 

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan, effective February 24, 2009.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. 

Amendments to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan, effective September 23, 2008.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. 

Amendment to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan, effective January 22, 2008.     
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. 

Action of Governance and Nominating Committee Increasing Amount of Formula Stock and Option Awards Under Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan, effective January 1, 2007.  

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. 

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for grants to directors on or before April 29, 2008.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013. 
      10(e)* 
      
     Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of the former Norwest.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, effective January 1, 2004.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. 

Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, effective November 1, 2000.  
      
    Filed as paragraph (4) of Exhibit 10(ff) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000. 
      10(f)* 
      
     Directors  Stock Deferral Plan for directors of the former Norwest.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999. 

Amendment to Directors  Stock Deferral Plan, effective January 1, 2004.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. 

Amendment to Directors' Stock Deferral Plan, effective November 1, 2000.  
      
    Filed as paragraph (5) of Exhibit 10(ff) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000. 
      10(g)* 
      
     Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan for directors of the former Norwest.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999. 

Amendment to Directors  Formula Stock Award Plan, effective January 1, 2004.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. 

Amendment to Directors' Formula Stock Award Plan, effective November 1, 2000.  
      
    Filed as paragraph (6) of Exhibit 10(ff) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000. 

16 

Exhibit 
  Number 
      
    Description 
      
    Location 
      10(h)* 
      
     Deferral Plan for Directors of the former Wells Fargo.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the former Wells Fargo s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997. 

Amendment to Deferral Plan, effective January 1, 2004.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. 
      10(i)* 
      
     Supplemental 401(k) Plan.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 4, 2009. 

Amendment to Supplemental 401(k) Plan, effective July 1, 2017.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2017. 

Amendment to Supplemental 401(k) Plan, effective January 1, 2015.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2014. 
      10(j)* 
      
     Supplemental Cash Balance Plan.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 4, 2009. 

Amendment to Supplemental Cash Balance Plan, effective July 1, 2017.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2017. 
      10(k)* 
      
    Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990. 

Amendment to Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan. 
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992. 
      10(l)* 
      
     Description of Relocation Program.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(y) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003. 
      10(m)* 
      
     Description of Chairman/CEO Post-Retirement Policy.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. 
      10(n)* 
      
     Description of the Company's Non-Employee Director Equity Compensation Program, effective January 1, 2016.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(q) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. 
      10(o)* 
      
     Description of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. Director Compensation Program, effective January 1, 2015.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(s) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. 
      10(p)* 
      
     Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(f) to Wachovia Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008. 

Amendment to Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, effective June 1, 2009.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(aa) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. 
      10(q)* 
      
     Wachovia Corporation Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(d) to Wachovia     Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997. 
      10(r)* 
      
     Wachovia Corporation Supplemental Executive Long-Term Disability Plan, as amended and restated.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (99) to Wachovia Corporation s     Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 5, 2005. 
      10(s)* 
      
     Amended and Restated Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration Plan.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to Wachovia Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 29, 2008. 

Wachovia Corporation Savings Restoration Plan.  
      
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(gg) to Wachovia     Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002. 

17 

18 

13 
     2017 Annual Report to Stockholders.  
    Filed herewith.  
      21 
     Subsidiaries of the Company.  
    Filed herewith. 
      23 
     Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  
    Filed herewith. 
      24 
     Powers of Attorney.  
    Filed herewith. 
      31(a) 
     Certification of principal executive officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
    Filed herewith. 
      31(b) 
     Certification of principal financial officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  
    Filed herewith. 
      32(a) 
     Certification of Periodic Financial Report by Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and 18 U.S.C.   1350.  
    Furnished herewith. 
      32(b) 
     Certification of Periodic Financial Report by Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and 18 U.S.C.   1350.  
    Furnished herewith. 
    
      99 
     Description of Replacement Capital Covenants of Wells Fargo and Wachovia.  
    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. 
      101.INS 
    XBRL Instance Document. 
    Filed herewith. 
      101.SCH 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. 
    Filed herewith. 
      101.CAL 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document. 
    Filed herewith. 
      101.LAB 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document. 
    Filed herewith. 
      101.PRE 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document. 
    Filed herewith. 
      101.DEF 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definitions Linkbase Document. 
    Filed herewith. 

19 

SIGNATURES 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on   March 1, 2018  . 
    
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 

By:                     /s/ TIMOTHY J. SLOAN 

Timothy J. Sloan 
  President and Chief Executive Officer 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 

By:                     /s/ TIMOTHY J. SLOAN 

Timothy J. Sloan 
  President and Chief Executive Officer 
  (Principal Executive Officer) 
  March 1, 2018 
     
  By:                     /s/ JOHN R. SHREWSBERRY 

John R. Shrewsberry 
  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 
  March 1, 2018 
     
  By:                     /s/ RICHARD D. LEVY 

Richard D. Levy 
  Executive Vice President and Controller 
  (Principal Accounting Officer) 
  March 1, 2018 

The Directors of Wells Fargo   Company listed below have duly executed powers of attorney empowering James H. Quigley to sign this document on their behalf. 
    
                     John D. Baker II 
    Lloyd H. Dean 
    Maria R. Morris 
    James H. Quigley 
      John S. Chen 
    Elizabeth A. Duke 
    Karen B. Peetz 
    Ronald L. Sargent 
      Celeste A. Clark 
    Enrique Hernandez, Jr. 
    Federico F. Pe a 
    Timothy J. Sloan 
      Theodore F. Craver, Jr. 
    Donald M. James 
    Juan A. Pujadas 
    Suzanne M. Vautrinot 

By:                     /s/ JAMES H. QUIGLEY 

James H. Quigley 
  Director and Attorney-in-fact 
  March 1, 2018 

20 

<EX-3.A>
 2
 wfc-12312017xex3a.htm
 EXHIBIT 3.A

Exhibit 

Exhibit 3(a) 
    
  RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION 
    
  OF 
    
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
    
  ___________________________________ 
    
  Pursuant to Section 245 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
  ___________________________________ 

Wells Fargo   Company, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows: 
    
  1.                        The present name of the corporation is Wells Fargo   Company.  
    
  2.                        The corporation was originally incorporated under the name Northwest Bancorporation, and its original Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on January 24, 1929.  On April 26, 1983 the corporation filed an amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation to change its name from Northwest Bancorporation to Norwest Corporation effective April 29, 1983, and on November 2, 1998 the corporation filed an amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation to change its name from Norwest Corporation to Wells Fargo   Company. 
    
  3.                        The corporation s Board of Directors has duly adopted this Restated Certificate of Incorporation in accordance with the provisions of Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.  This Restated Certificate of Incorporation only restates and integrates and does not further amend the provisions of the corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, as theretofore amended or supplemented or restated, and there is no discrepancy between those provisions and the provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation. 
    
  4.                        The text of the corporation s Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended or supplemented or restated, is hereby restated to read in its entirety as follows: 
    
   FIRST:  The name of this corporation is Wells Fargo   Company. 
    
   SECOND:  Its registered office in the State of Delaware is located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle.  The name and address of its registered agent is Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware 19808. 
    
   THIRD:  The nature of the business, or objects or purposes to be transacted, promoted or carried on, are: 
    
   To acquire by purchase, subscription or otherwise, and to own and hold, for investment purposes, the capital stock, scrip or any voting trust certificates in respect of the shares of capital stock issued or created by any moneyed, financial or investment corporation or association created and organized, or to be created and organized, under the laws of the United States of America or of any State or territory  
  
   0 

thereof; and to issue in exchange therefor shares of the capital stock of this corporation; and while the holder or owner of any such shares of capital stock, scrip or voting trust certificates, to possess and exercise in respect thereof any and all rights, powers and privileges of ownership, including the right to vote thereon; 
    
   To loan money to any aforesaid corporation or association, any of whose shares of capital stock, scrip or voting trust certificates aforesaid shall be owned at the time of such loan by this corporation, and to do any and all lawful things designed to protect, preserve, improve or enhance the value of any such shares, scrip or voting trust certificates; 
    
   In addition to and not in limitation of any of the aforesaid powers, to invest temporarily any of its capital or surplus funds in bonds, mortgages or evidences of indebtedness and any other securities issued or created by any individual, copartnership or other corporation, joint stock company or association, public or private, or of the Government of the United States of America, or of any Foreign Government, or of any State, territory, municipality or other political subdivision or of any governmental agency; 
    
   To acquire, hold, sell, reissue or cancel any shares of its own capital stock; provided, however, that this corporation may not use any of its funds or property for the purchase of its own shares of capital stock when such use would cause any impairment of the capital of this corporation, and provided further that the shares of its own capital stock belonging to this corporation shall not be voted, directly or indirectly; 
    
   To organize, incorporate and reorganize subsidiary corporations for all lawful purposes; 
    
   To conduct all or any part of its operations and business without restriction or limit as to amount in the State of Delaware or in any or all other States, territories, districts, colonies and dependencies of the United States of America; 
    
   To have and to exercise any and all powers and privileges now or hereafter conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware upon corporations formed under the Acts hereinafter referred to, or under any Act amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto or substituted therefor; 
    
   The foregoing clauses shall be construed both as objects and powers; and it is hereby expressly provided that the foregoing enumeration of specific powers shall not be held to limit or restrict in any manner the powers of this corporation. 
    
     FOURTH:  The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the corporation shall have authority to issue is Six Billion Twenty-Four Million (6,024,000,000), consisting of Twenty Million (20,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock without par value, Four Million (4,000,000) shares of Preference Stock without par value, and Six Billion (6,000,000,000) shares of Common Stock of the par value of $1-2/3 per share.  * 
    
  *On April 29, 2010, Wells Fargo   Company filed a Certificate of Amendment Amending Article Fourth to increase the authorized common stock to 9,000,000,000 shares. 
    
   The designations and the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Preferred Stock, the Preference Stock and the Common Stock which are fixed by the Certificate of Incorporation and the express grant of authority to the Board of Directors of the corporation (hereinafter referred to as the  Board of Directors )  
  
    1 

to fix by resolution or resolutions the designations and the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Preferred Stock and the Preference Stock which are not fixed by the Certificate of Incorporation are as follows: 
    
   1.         The Preferred Stock may be issued at any time or from time to time in any amount, provided not more than 20,000,000 shares thereof shall be outstanding at any one time, as Preferred Stock of one or more series, as hereinafter provided.  Each share of any one series of Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects except as to the date from which dividends thereon may be cumulative, each series of Preferred Stock shall be distinctly designated by letter or descriptive words, and all series of Preferred Stock shall rank equally and be identical in all respects except as permitted by the provisions of Section 2 of this Article FOURTH.  Shares of Preferred Stock shall be issued only as fully paid and non-assessable shares. 
    
  The Preference Stock may be issued at any time or from time to time in any amount, provided not more than 4,000,000 shares thereof shall be outstanding at any one time, as Preference Stock of one or more series, as hereinafter provided.  Each share of any one series of Preference Stock shall be identical in all respects except as to the date from which dividends thereon may be cumulative, each series of Preference Stock shall be distinctly designated by letter or descriptive words, and all series of Preference Stock shall rank equally and be identical in all respects except as permitted by the provisions of Section 2 of this Article FOURTH.  Shares of Preference Stock shall be issued only as fully paid and non-assessable shares. 
    
   2.         Authority is hereby expressly granted to and vested in the Board of Directors at any time or from time to time to issue the Preferred Stock as Preferred Stock of any series     and the Preference Stock as Preference Stock of any series     and, in connection with the creation of each such series, to fix by resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of shares 
  thereof the designations and the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of such series so far as not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article FOURTH applicable to all series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock, respectively, and to the full extent now or hereafter permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware, including the following: 
    
   (a)        The distinctive designation of such series and the number of shares which shall constitute such series, which number may be increased (except where otherwise provided by the Board of Directors in creating such series) or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) from time to time by like action of the Board of Directors; 
    
   (b)        The annual rate or rates of dividends payable on shares of such series, whether dividends shall be cumulative and, if so, the date or dates from which dividends shall be cumulative on the shares of such series, the preferences, restrictions, limitations and conditions upon the payment of dividends, and the dates on which dividends, if declared, shall be payable; 
    
   (c)        Whether shares of such series shall be redeemable and, if so, the terms and conditions of such redemption, including the date or dates upon or after which they shall be redeemable, and the amount per share payable in case of redemption, which amount may vary under different conditions and at different redemption dates; 

2 

(d)        The rights of the shares of such series in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation, and the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment of shares of such series; 
    
   (e)        Whether shares of such series shall have a purchase, retirement or sinking fund for the purchase, retirement, or redemption of shares of such series and, if so, the terms and provisions thereof; 
    
   (f)        Whether shares of such series shall have conversion privileges and, if so, the terms and provisions thereof, including provision for adjustment of the conversion rate in such events as the Board of Directors shall determine; 
    
   (g)        Whether shares of such series shall have voting rights, in addition to voting rights provided by law, and, if so, the terms and provisions thereof; and 
    
   (h)        Any other preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof. 
    
   3.         The holders of the Preferred Stock of each series     and the holders of the Preference Stock of each series, respectively,     shall be entitled to receive such dividends, when and as declared by the Board of Directors, out of funds legally available therefor, as they may be entitled to in accordance with the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the issue of such series, payable on such dates as may be fixed in such resolution or resolutions.  So long as there shall be outstanding any shares of Preferred Stock of any series or any shares of Preference Stock of any series entitled to cumulative dividends pursuant to the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such series, no dividend, whether in cash or property, shall be paid or declared, nor shall any distribution be made, on the Common Stock, nor shall any shares of Common Stock be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for value by the corporation, if at the time of making such payment, declaration, distribution, purchase, redemption or acquisition the corporation shall be in default with respect to any dividend payable on, or obligation to maintain a purchase, retirement or sinking fund with respect to or to redeem, shares of Preferred Stock of any series or shares of Preference Stock of any series.  The foregoing provisions of this Section 3 shall not, however, apply to a dividend payable in Common Stock or to the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application of the proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock. 
    
   Subject to the foregoing and to any further limitations prescribed in accordance with the provisions of Section 2 of this Article FOURTH, the Board of Directors may declare, out of any funds legally available therefor, dividends upon the then outstanding shares of Common Stock, and shares of Preferred Stock of any series and shares of Preference Stock of any series shall not be entitled to participate therein. 
    
   4.         In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation, the holders of the Preferred Stock of each series and the holders of the Preference Stock of each series shall be entitled to receive, out of the assets of the corporation available for distribution to its stockholders, before any distribution of assets shall be made to the holders of the Common Stock, the amount per share fixed by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 2 of this Article FOURTH, plus in each such case an amount equal to any cumulative dividends thereon to the date of final distribution to the holders of the Preferred Stock or to the holders of the Preference Stock, respectively; and the holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled, to the exclusion of the holders of the Preferred Stock of any and all  
  
    3 

series and the holders of the Preference Stock of any and all series, respectively, to participate ratably in all the assets of the corporation then remaining in accordance with their respective rights and preferences.  If upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation the assets available for distribution shall be insufficient to pay the holders of all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock or the holders of all outstanding shares of Preference Stock the full amounts to which they respectively shall be entitled, the holders of shares of Preferred Stock of all series and the holders of shares of Preference Stock of all series, respectively, shall participate ratably in any distribution of assets according to the respective amounts which would be payable in respect of the shares of Preferred Stock or shares of Preference Stock held by them upon such distribution if all amounts payable in respect of the Preferred Stock of all series or the Preference Stock of all series, respectively, were paid in full.  Neither the statutory merger nor consolidation of the corporation into or with any other corporation, nor the statutory merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the corporation, nor a sale, transfer or lease of all or any part of the assets of the corporation, shall be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation within the meaning of this Section 4. 
    
   5.         The corporation, at the option of the Board of Directors, may redeem the whole or any part of the Preferred Stock of any series or of the Preference Stock of any series at the price or prices and on the terms and conditions provided in the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the issue of such series. 
    
   6.         Anything herein or in any resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the issue of any series of Preferred Stock or any series of Preference Stock contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the rights of the holders of all classes of stock of the corporation in respect of dividends and purchase, retirement or sinking funds, if any, shall at all times be subject to the power of the Board of Directors from time to time to set aside such reserves and to make such other provisions, if any, as the Board of Directors shall deem to be necessary or advisable for working capital, for expansion of the corporation's business (including the acquisition of real and personal property for that purpose) and for any other purpose of the corporation. 
    
   7.         Except as otherwise provided by the statutes of the State of Delaware or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the issue of any series of Preferred Stock or any series of Preference Stock, the holders of the Preferred Stock and the holders of the Preference Stock shall have no right to vote.  The holders of the Preferred Stock and the holders of the Preference Stock shall not be entitled to receive notice of any meeting of stockholders at which they are not entitled to vote or consent.  The holders of shares of Preference Stock shall not be entitled to more than one vote per share. 
    
   8.         Except as otherwise provided by the statutes of the State of Delaware or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the issue of any series of Preferred Stock or any series of Preference Stock, the vote of the holders of all or any portion of any class of stock, as a class, shall not be required for any action whatsoever to be taken or authorized by the stockholders of the corporation, including any amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation. 
    
   9.         No holder of shares of the corporation of any class or of any security or obligation convertible into, or of any warrant, option or right to subscribe for, purchase or otherwise acquire, shares of the corporation of any class, whether now or hereafter authorized, shall, as such holder, have any preemptive right whatsoever to subscribe for, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of the corporation of any class or any security or obligation convertible into, or any warrant, option or right to subscribe for,  
  
    4 

purchase or otherwise acquire, shares of the corporation of any class, whether now or hereafter authorized. 
    
   10.       If it deems it desirable so to do, the Board of Directors may from time to time issue scrip for fractional shares of stock.  Such scrip shall not confer upon the holder any voting or other rights of a stockholder of the corporation, but the corporation shall from time to time, within such time as the Board of Directors may determine, issue one whole share 
  of stock upon the surrender of scrip for fractional shares aggregating one whole share, properly endorsed if in registered form. 
    
   Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH, the following series of Preferred Stock have been designated, each such series consisting of such number of shares, with such voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as are stated and expressed in the exhibit with respect to such series attached hereto as specified below and incorporated herein by reference: 
    
                 Exhibit A 
    1997 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock*  
      Exhibit B 
    1998 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock*  
      Exhibit C 
    1999 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock*  
      Exhibit D 
    2000 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock*  
      Exhibit E 
    2001 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock*  
      Exhibit F 
    2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock*  
      Exhibit G 
    2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock* 
      Exhibit H 
    2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock* 
      Exhibit I 
    2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock* 
      Exhibit J 
    2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock* 

*Wells Fargo   Company has filed Certificates Eliminating the Certificates of Designations for each of Wells Fargo's 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (Exhibits A through J above) 
    
   FIFTH:  The amount of capital with which this corporation will commence business is One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00), being twenty (20) shares of the par value of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) each.  
    
   SIXTH:  The names and places of residence of the subscribers to the capital stock and the number of shares subscribed for by each are as follows: 
    
                                      Name                                      Residence                           No. of Shares 
    
   A. V. Lane                    Wilmington, Delaware                   18 
   C. S. Peabbles               Wilmington, Delaware                    1 
   L. E. Gray                     Wilmington, Delaware                    1 
    
   SEVENTH:  This corporation is to have perpetual existence. 
    
   EIGHTH:  The private property of the stockholders shall not be subject to the payment of corporate debts to any extent whatever. 

5 

NINTH:  The number of Directors of the corporation shall be as specified in the By-Laws, and such number may from time to time be increased or decreased in such manner as may be prescribed in the By-Laws, provided the number of Directors of the corporation shall not be less than three (3).  In case of any increase in the number of Directors, the additional Directors may be elected by the Board of Directors to hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until their successors are elected and qualified.  In case of a vacancy in the Board of Directors, a majority of the remaining members of the Board may elect Directors to fill such vacancy. 
    
   Directors shall be stockholders. 
    
   TENTH:  In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized: 
    
   To make, alter, amend or repeal the By-Laws of the corporation, except as otherwise provided in said By-Laws; 
    
   To determine from time to time whether and to what extent and at what times and places and under what conditions and regulations the accounts and books of the corporation, or any of them, shall be open to the inspection of the stockholders; and no stockholder shall have any right to inspect any account or book or document of the corporation except as conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware, unless and until authorized so to do by resolution of the Board of Directors, or of the stockholders. 
    
   To set apart out of any funds of the corporation available for dividends a reserve or reserves for working capital or for any other lawful purpose, and also to abolish any such reserve in the same manner in which it was created; 
    
   If the By-Laws so provide, to designate two or more of its number to constitute an Executive Committee, which Committee shall for the time being, as provided in said resolution or in the By-Laws of this corporation, have and exercise any or all of the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of this corporation and have power to authorize the seal of this corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. 
    
   This corporation may in its By-Laws confer powers upon its Directors in addition to the foregoing and in addition to the powers and authorities expressly conferred upon them by the Statute. 
    
   Both stockholders and Directors shall have power, if the By-Laws so provide, to hold their meetings and to have one or more offices within or without the State of Delaware and to keep the books of this corporation (subject to the provisions of the Statutes) outside of the State of Delaware at such places as may be from time to time designated by the Board of Directors. 
    
   ELEVENTH:  In the absence of fraud, no contract or transaction between this corporation and any other association or corporation shall be affected by the fact that any of the Directors or officers of this corporation are interested in or are Directors or officers of such other association or corporation, and any Director or officer of this corporation individually may be a party to or may be interested in any such contract or transaction of this corporation; and no such contract or transaction of this corporation with any person or persons, firm, association or corporation shall be affected by the fact that any Director or officer of this corporation is a party to or interested in such contract or transaction in any way connected with such person or persons, firm, association or corporation; provided that such contract or other transaction shall be authorized or ratified by the vote of a majority of the Directors of this corporation not so  
  
    6 

interested; and each and every person who may become a Director or officer of this corporation is hereby relieved from any liability that might otherwise exist from thus contracting with this corporation for the benefit of himself or any person, firm, association or corporation in which he may be in anywise interested. 
    
   TWELFTH:  This corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by Statute, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation. 
    
   THIRTEENTH:  The Board of Directors is expressly authorized: 
    
   (i)         to adopt, and from time to time to amend, one or more pension, profit sharing, retirement, and benefit plans benefiting any or all officers and employees and former officers and employees of this corporation and affiliated banks and companies; 
    
   (ii)        to adopt, and from time to time to amend, one or more stock option, stock purchase, stock bonus, incentive, and compensation plans benefiting any or all officers and employees of this corporation and affiliated banks and corporations; and 
    
   (iii)       to authorize affiliated banks and companies, on behalf of this corporation as a stockholder therein, to adopt, and from time to time to amend, any of said types of plans enumerated in clause (i) of this Article THIRTEENTH benefiting any or all officers and employees and former officers and employees thereof and any of said types of plans enumerated in clause (ii) of this Article THIRTEENTH benefiting any or all officers and employees thereof. 
    
   No action shall be taken under this Article except by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors in office at the time such action is taken, and such majority shall not include any director who is a salaried officer of the corporation or of any affiliated bank or company. 
    
   FOURTEENTH:  (a)      Elimination of Certain Liability of Directors  .  A director of the corporation shall not be personally liable to the corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. 
    
   (b)(1)    Right to Indemnification  .  Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be a made a party to or is involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a  proceeding ), by reason of the fact that he or she, or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action or inaction in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or  
  
    7 

penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that, except as provided in subparagraph (b)(2), the corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the corporation.  The right to indemnification conferred in this paragraph (b) shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that, if the Delaware General Corporation Law requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this paragraph (b) or otherwise.  The corporation may, by action of its Board of Directors, provide indemnification to employees and agents of the corporation with the same scope and effect as the foregoing indemnification of directors and officers. 
    
   (2)      Right of Claimant to Bring Suit  .  If a claim under subparagraph (b)(1) is not paid in full by the corporation within 30 days after a written claim has been received by the corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim.  It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the corporation) that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible under the Delaware General Corporation Law for the corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the corporation.  Neither the failure of the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct. 
    
   (3)      Non-Exclusivity of Rights  .  The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this paragraph (b) shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise. 
    
   (4)      Insurance  .  The corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any such expense, liability or loss, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the Delaware General Corporation Law. 

8 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation is executed on behalf of the corporation by its Chairman and attested by its Secretary this      28  th      day of September, 2006. 

/s/ Richard M. Kovacevich                                      
   Richard M. Kovacevich, Chairman 

Attest:            /s/ Laurel A. Holschuh                         
       Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on September 28, 2006.] 

9 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 

DIVIDEND EQUALIZATION PREFERRED SHARES 
  (Without Par Value) 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on November 20, 2008, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  1.             Designation.  
    
   (a)        The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Dividend Equalization Preferred Shares ( DEPs ), and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 97,000. 
    
   (b)        DEPs redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries (other than in a bona fide fiduciary capacity) shall be cancelled and may not be reissued.  DEPs may be issued in fractional shares which are whole number multiples of one one-millionth of a share, which fractional shares shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder s fractional share, to all rights of a holder of a whole share of DEPs. 
    
   (c)        DEPs shall, with respect to distributions upon the liquidation, winding-up and dissolution of the Corporation, rank (x) senior to the Common Stock for the Liquidation Preference stated and defined in Section 3(a) below and (y) junior to each class or series of preferred stock issued in exchange for preferred stock of Wachovia Corporation established by the board of directors of Wachovia Corporation after September 1, 2001 and each class or series of preferred stock established by the Board of Directors after the date hereof. 

1 

2.             Dividends.      DEPs shall not entitle the holders thereof to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property, stock or otherwise. 
    
  3.             Liquidation.  
    
   (a)        In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of full and fractional DEPs shall be entitled, before any distribution or payment is made on any date to the holders of the Common Stock or any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the DEPs upon liquidation, to be paid in full an amount per whole share of DEPs equal to $10.00 (the  Liquidation Preference ), together with accrued dividends to such distribution or payment date, whether or not earned or declared.  If such payment shall have been made in full to all holders of DEPs, the holders of DEPs as such shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Corporation.  
   (b)        In the event the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to the holders of DEPs upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to Section 3(a), no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the DEPs upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the DEPs, ratably in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up.  
    
   (c)        Upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of DEPs then outstanding shall be entitled to be paid out of assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its shareholders all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to the first paragraph of this Section 3 before any payment shall be made to the holders of Common Stock or any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior upon liquidation to the DEPs.  
    
   (d)        For the purposes of this Section 3, the consolidation or merger of, or binding statutory share exchange by, the Corporation with any other corporation shall not be deemed to constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
    
  4.             Redemption, Conversion, Exchange. 
    
   (a)        The DEPs shall not be convertible or exchangeable.  Other than as described in the next sentence, the DEPs shall not be redeemable.  The DEPs shall be redeemable by the Corporation, at the Corporation s option and in its sole discretion, for an amount in cash equal to the Liquidation Preference per share of DEPs, after December 31, 2021. 
    
   (b)        In case of redemption of less than all of the DEPs at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected pro rata or by lot as determined by the Corporation in its sole discretion, provided that the Corporation may redeem all shares held by holders of fewer than 0.100 DEPs (or by holders that would hold fewer than 0.100 DEPs following such redemption) prior to its redemption of other DEPs.  
    
   (c)        Notice of any redemption shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation no less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the date specified for redemption in such notice (the  Redemption Date ), by first class mail, postage prepaid, to all holders of record of the DEPs at their last addresses as they appear on the books of the Corporation; provided, however, that no failure to give such  
  
   2 

notice or any defect therein or in the mailing thereof shall affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any DEPs except as to the holder to whom the Corporation has failed to give notice or except as to the holder to whom notice was defective.  In addition to any information required by applicable law or regulation or the rules of any exchange upon which the DEPs may be listed or admitted to trading, such notice shall state (1) that such redemption is being made pursuant to the redemption provisions of this Section 5, (2) the Redemption Date, (3) the redemption price, (4) the total number of DEPs to be redeemed and, if less than all shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed, and (5) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price, including any procedures applicable to redemption to be accomplished through book-entry transfers.  Upon the mailing of any such notice of redemption, the Corporation shall become obligated to redeem, on the Redemption Date, all shares called for redemption.  
    
  5.             Voting Rights  .  Except as otherwise required by applicable law or regulation or the rules of a securities exchange upon which the DEPs may be listed or quoted, holders of the DEPs shall have no voting rights. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY     has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this      30  th      day of December, 2008. 
    
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 

By:                       /s/ Barbara S. Brett                   
    
              Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President 
              and Assistant Treasurer 
   /s/ Laurel A. Holschuh             
  Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on December 30, 2008.] 
  
   3 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 

CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES I 
  (Without Par Value) 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on November 20, 2008, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  Section 1.             Designation  .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Class A Preferred Stock, Series I, with no par value and a liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (hereinafter referred to as the  Series I Preferred Stock ).  Each share of Series I Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series I Preferred Stock.  Series I Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2.             Number of Shares  .  The number of shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall be 25,010.  Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series I Preferred Stock then outstanding) by the board of directors.  Shares of Series I Preferred Stock that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock undesignated as to series.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series I Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3.             Definitions  .  As used herein with respect to Series I Preferred Stock: 
    
   Business Day  means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions in Charlotte, North Carolina or New York, New York are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close. 
    
   Depositary Company  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d). 
    
   Dividend Payment Date  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a). 

1 

Dividend Period  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a). 
    
   DTC  means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
   Junior Stock  means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series I Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
   London Banking Day  means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London. 
    
   Parity Stock  means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par with Series I Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
   Series I Preferred Stock  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1. 
    
   Telerate Page 3750  means the display page so designated on the Moneyline/Telerate Service (or such other page as may replace that page on that service, or such other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits). 
    
   Three-Month LIBOR  means, with respect to any Dividend Period, the rate (expressed as a percentage     per annum     ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period.  If such rate does not appear on Telerate Page 3750, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period.  Wachovia Bank, National Association, as calculation agent for the Preferred Stock, will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate.  If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations.  If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the calculation agent, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000.  However, if the banks selected by the calculation agent to provide quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had Series I Preferred Stock been outstanding.  The calculation agent s establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series I Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error. 
    
  Section 4.             Dividends  .  
    
  (a)            Rate  .  Holders of Series I Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the board of directors, but only out of funds legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share of Series I Preferred Stock, and no  
  
   2 

more, payable:  (1) if the Series I Preferred Stock is issued prior to March 15, 2011, semi-annually in arrears on each March 15 and September 15 through March 15, 2011 and (2) from and including the later of March 15, 2011 and the date of issuance, quarterly in arrears on each March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15.  If any date prior to March 15, 2011 specified pursuant to the preceding sentence is not a Business Day, then dividends will be payable on the first Business Day following such date, without accrual to the actual payment date; if any date on or after March 15, 2011 specified pursuant the preceding sentence is not a Business Day, then dividends will be payable on the first Business Day following such date and dividends shall accrue to the actual payment date.  The term  Dividend Payment Date  means each of the following dates occurring after the date of issuance of the Series I Preferred Stock:  (i) each March 15 and September 15 through September 15, 2010 and (ii) each March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15, or if any such day in the case of this clause (ii) is not a Business Day, the next Business Day.  The term  Dividend Period  means each period from and including a Dividend Payment Date (or the date of issuance of the Series I Preferred Stock for the first Dividend Payment Date) to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date.  For any Dividend Period ending prior to the Dividend Payment Date in March 2011 dividends will accrue at a rate per annum equal to 5.80%, and for any Dividend Period ending after the Dividend Payment Date in March 2011, dividends will accrue at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (x) Three-Month LIBOR for the related Dividend Period plus 0.93% and (y) 5.56975%.  The amount of dividends payable for any Dividend Period (1) ending prior to the Dividend Payment Date in March 2011 shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months and (2) beginning on or after the Dividend Payment Date in March 2011 shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed. 
    
  (b)            Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series I Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series I Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for the Dividend Period ending immediately prior to such Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Payment Date or to pay interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series I Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation.  Holders of Series I Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends for each Dividend Period on the Series I Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments or failure to make any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments. 
    
  (c)            Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any share of Series I Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to     pro rata     offers to purchase all, or a     pro rata     portion, of the Series I Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series I Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and set aside for payment.  The foregoing shall not restrict the ability of the Corporation, or any affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market- 
  
   3 

making transactions in the Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of business.  When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series I Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series I Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series I Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations on Parity Stock, bear to each other.  No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on such offered stock that may be in arrears.  If the board of directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of the Series I Preferred Stock prior to such date.  Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the board of directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
    
  Section 5.             Liquidation Rights  .  
    
  (a)            Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series I Preferred Stock shall be entitled, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series I Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidation preference in an amount equal to $100,000 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the date of liquidation.  The holder of Series I Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
  (b)            Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference to all holders of Series I Preferred Stock and the liquidation preferences of any Parity Stock to all holders of such Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series I Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be     pro rata     in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences of Series I Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
  (c)            Residual Distributions  .  If the liquidation preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series I Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)            Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.             Redemption  .  
    
  (a)            Optional Redemption  .  So long as full dividends for all outstanding shares of Series I Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside, the Corporation, at the option of the board of directors, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of Series I Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after  
  
   4 

the later of March 15, 2011 and the date of original issuance of the Series I Preferred Stock, upon notice given as provided in Subsection (b) below, at the redemption price in effect at the redemption date as provided in this Section 6.  The redemption price for shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall be $100,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid plus accrued and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the redemption date. 
    
  (b)            Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series I Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series I Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series I Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series I Preferred Stock to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the Series I Preferred Stock are to be redeemed; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. 
    
  (c)            Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series I Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series I Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either     pro  rata  from the holders of record of Series I Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series I Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the board of directors may determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions hereof, the board of directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d)            Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the     pro rata     benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the board of directors (the  Depositary Company ) in trust for the     pro rata     benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
    
  Section 7.             Voting Rights  .  The holders of Series I Preferred Stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law. 

5 

Section 8.             Conversion  .  The holders of Series I Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series I Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9.             Rank  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate  of Incorporation of the Corporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the board of directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series I Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class of securities ranking senior to the Series I Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 10.           Repurchase  .  Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series I Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11.           Unissued or Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series I Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12.           No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series I Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY     has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this      30  th      day of December, 2008. 
    
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 

By:                       /s/ Barbara S. Brett                               
  Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President 
              and Assistant Treasurer 
   /s/ Laurel A. Holschuh             
  Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on December 30, 2008.] 

6 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 
    
  8.00% NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES J 
  (Without Par Value) 
    
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on November 20, 2008, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  Section 1.             Designation  .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated 8.00% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series J, with no par value and a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (hereinafter referred to as the    Series J Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series J Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series J Preferred Stock.  Series J Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2.             Number of Shares  .  The number of shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be 2,300,000.  Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series J Preferred Stock then outstanding) by the board of directors.  Shares of Series J Preferred Stock that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock undesignated as to series.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series J Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3.             Definitions  .  As used herein with respect to Series J Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions in Charlotte, North Carolina or New York, New York are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close. 
  
   7 

Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d). 
    
     Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a). 
    
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a). 
    
     DTC    means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series J Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
     Parity Stock    means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par with Series J Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
     Series J Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1. 
    
     Voting Parity Stock    means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series J Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 4.             Dividends.  
    
  (a)            Rate  .  Holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the board of directors, but only out of funds legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share of Series J Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15.  If any date specified pursuant the preceding sentence is not a Business Day, then dividends will be payable on the first Business Day following such date and dividends shall accrue to the actual payment date.  The term    Dividend Payment Date    means March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15, or if any such day in the case of this clause is not a Business Day, the next Business Day.  The term    Dividend Period    means each period from and including a Dividend Payment Date (or the date of issuance of the Series J Preferred Stock for the first Dividend Payment Date) to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date;     provided     that the first Dividend Period shall be deemed to have commenced on December 15, 2008.  Dividends will accrue at a rate per annum equal to 8.00%.  The amount of dividends payable for any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. 
    
  (b)            Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series J Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for the Dividend Period ending immediately prior to such Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Payment Date, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series J Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation.  Holders of Series J Preferred Stock  
  
   8 

shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends for each Dividend Period on the Series J Preferred Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments or failure to make any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments. 
    
  (c)            Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any share of Series J Preferred Stock remains outstanding, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series J Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and set aside for payment, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into Parity Stock or Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or for or into Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, otherwise than pursuant to     pro rata     offers to purchase all, or a     pro rata     portion, of the Series J Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock.  The foregoing shall not restrict the ability of the Corporation, or any affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in the Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of business.  When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series J Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series J Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series J Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations, on Parity Stock, bear to each other.  No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on such Parity Stock that may be in arrears.  If the board of directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of the Series J Preferred Stock prior to such date.  Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the board of directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
    
  Section 5.             Liquidation Rights. 
    
  (a)            Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall be entitled, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series J Preferred Stock upon     liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidation preference in an amount equal to $1,000 per share, plus an amount equal to all declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the date of liquidation.  The holder of Series J Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to  
  
   9 

any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b)            Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference to all holders of Series J Preferred Stock and the liquidation preferences of any Parity Stock to all holders of such Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series J Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be     pro rata     in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences of Series J Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
    
  (c)            Residual Distributions  .  If the liquidation preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series J Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)            Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.             Redemption.  
    
  (a)            Optional Redemption  .  So long as full dividends for all outstanding shares of Series J Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside, and subject to applicable regulatory approvals, the Corporation, at the option of the board of directors, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of Series J Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after December 15, 2017 upon notice given as provided in Subsection (b) below, at the redemption price in effect at the redemption date as provided in this Section 6.  The redemption price for shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be $1,000 per share plus declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period, without interest. 
    
  (b)            Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series J Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series J Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series J Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series J Preferred Stock to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; and (iv) the place or places where the Series J Preferred Stock are to be redeemed. 

10 

(c)            Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series J Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series J Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either     pro rata     from the holders of record of Series J Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series J Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the board of directors may determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions hereof, the board of directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d)            Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the     pro rata     benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the board of directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the     pro rata     benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
    
  Section 7.             Voting Rights  .  The holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by applicable law. 
    
  (a)            Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events  .  If and whenever the dividends on the Series J Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to full dividends for at least six Dividend Periods or their equivalent (whether or not consecutive) (a    Nonpayment Event   ), the number of directors then constituting the board of directors shall automatically be increased     by two and the holders of Series J Preferred Stock, voting together as a single and separate class with the holders of any outstanding shares of Voting Parity Stock, shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the    Preferred Stock Directors   ) by a plurality of the votes cast,  provided     that it shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors, and  provided further     that the board of directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights). 

11 

In the event that the holders of Series J Preferred Stock and such other holders of Voting Parity Stock shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event at the Corporation s next annual meeting of shareholders, and, except as provided below, at each subsequent annual meeting of shareholders of the Corporation. 
    
  When dividends have been paid in full on the Series J Preferred Stock and any and all Voting Parity Stock for at least four consecutive Dividend Periods or their equivalent after a Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any future Nonpayment Event), and, if and when all rights of holders of Series J Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the board of directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly. 
    
  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series J Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single and separate class).  In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series J Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a single and separate class.  The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the board of directors for a vote. 
    
  (b)            Other Voting Rights  .  So long as any shares of Series J Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or by the certificate of incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series J Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting separately as a single class with all other series of preferred stock ranking equally with the Series J Preferred Stock and entitled to vote thereon, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating any of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: 
    
  (i)                   Issuance of Senior Stock  .  The issuance of any class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series J Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation; 
    
  (ii)                  Amendment Affecting Series J Preferred Stock  .  Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series J Preferred Stock; 
    
  (iii)     Authorization of Senior Stock  .  Any amendment or alteration of any provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws to authorize, create or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series J Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation; or 

12 

(iv)                 Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations  .  Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series J Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series J Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting corporation, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting corporation or a corporation controlling such corporation, and (y) such Series J Preferred Stock shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series J Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; 
  provided  ,   however  , that any amendment of the certificate of incorporation to authorize or create or to increase the authorized amount of any Junior Stock or any class or series or any securities convertible into shares of any class or series of Parity Stock or Junior Stock will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series J Preferred Stock, and the Series J Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon. 
    
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(b) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting preferred stock (including the Series J Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of preferred stock). 
    
  (c)            Changes for Clarification  .  Without the consent of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series J Preferred Stock, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series J Preferred Stock: 
    
  (i)               to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or 
    
  (ii)              to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series J Preferred Stock that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations. 
    
  (d)            Changes after Provision for Redemption  .  No vote or consent of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to this Section 7 if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6. 
    
  (e)            Procedures for Voting and Consents  .  The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the board of directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the certificate of incorporation, the bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series J Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.  Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series J Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Stock has been  
  
   13 

cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series J Preferred Stock are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent. 
    
  For purposes of determining the voting rights of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock under this Section 7, each holder will be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 of liquidation preference to which his or her shares are entitled.  Holders of shares of Series J Preferred Stock will be entitled to one vote for each such share of Series J Preferred Stock held by them. 
    
  Section 8.             Conversion.     The holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series J Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9.             Rank  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the certificate of incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the board of directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series J Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock. 
    
  Section 10.           Repurchase  .  Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series J Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine;     provided  ,   however  , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11.           Unissued or Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series J Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12.           No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series J Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY     has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this      30  th      day of December, 2008. 
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 

By:                       /s/ Barbara S. Brett                               
              Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President 
              and Assistant Treasurer 
   /s/ Laurel A. Holschuh             
  Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on December 30, 2008.] 
  
   14 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
    
  of the State of Delaware 

FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES K 
  (Without Par Value) 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on November 20, 2008, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  Section 1.             Designation  .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Fixed-to-Floating Rate non Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series K, with no par value and a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (hereinafter referred to as the    Series K Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series K Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series K Preferred Stock.  Series K Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2.             Number of Shares  .  The number of shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be 3,500,000.  Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series K Preferred Stock then outstanding) by the board of directors.  Shares of Series K Preferred Stock that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock undesignated as to series.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series K Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3.             Definitions  .  As used herein with respect to Series K Preferred Stock: 

15 

Business Day    means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions in Charlotte, North Carolina or New York, New York are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close. 
    
     Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d). 
    
     Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a). 
    
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a). 
    
     DTC    means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
     Fixed Rate Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a). 
    
     Floating Rate Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a). 
    
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series K Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
     London Banking Day    means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London. 
    
     Nonpayment Event    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a). 
    
     Parity Stock    means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par with Series K Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
     Preferred Stock Directors    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a). 
    
     Reuters Screen LIBOR01 page    means the display page so designated on Reuters (or such other page as may replace that page on that service, or such other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits). 
     Series K Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1. 
    
     Three-Month LIBOR    means, with respect to any Dividend Period beginning on or after March 15, 2018, the rate for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period that appears on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 page as of 11:00 a.m.  (London time) on the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period.  If the rate described above does not appear on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 page, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by us, at     approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period.  Wachovia Bank, National Association, as calculation agent for the Preferred Stock, will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate.  If  
  
   16 

at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations.  If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York, New York, selected by the calculation agent, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000.  However, if the banks selected by the calculation agent to provide quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had the Preferred Stock been outstanding.  The calculation agent s establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at our principal offices, will be made available to any holder of Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error. 
    
     Voting Parity Stock    means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series K Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 4.             Dividends  .  
    
  (a)            Rate  .  Holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the board of directors, but only out of funds legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share of Series K Preferred Stock, and no more, from the date of issuance to, but excluding March 15, 2018 at a rate of 7.98% per annum (the    Fixed Rate Period   ) payable semi-annually in arrears on each March 15 and September 15, beginning on September 15, 2008.  Thereafter, declared dividends will be at a floating rate equal to Three-Month LIBOR plus 3.77% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears, on March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on June 15, 2018 (the    Floating Rate Period   ).  If any date specified pursuant to the preceding sentence is not a Business Day, then dividends will be payable on the first Business Day following such date and dividends shall accrue to the actual payment date.  The term    Dividend Payment Date    means, with respect to the Fixed Rate Period, March 15 and September 15, and with respect to the Floating Rate Period, March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15, or if any such day in the case of this clause is not a Business Day, the next Business Day.  The term    Dividend Period    means each period from and including a Dividend Payment Date (or the date of issuance of the Series K Preferred Stock for the first Dividend Payment Date) to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date;     provided     that the first Dividend Period shall be deemed to have commenced on December 15, 2008.  The amount of dividends payable for any Dividend Period during the Fixed Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.  The amount of dividends payable for any Dividend Period during the Floating Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of actual number of days in a Dividend Period and a 360-day year. 
    
  (b)            Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series     K Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for the Dividend Period ending immediately prior to such Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Payment Date, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series K Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any  
  
   17 

other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation.  Holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends for each Dividend Period on the Series K Preferred Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments or failure to make any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments. 
    
  (c)            Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any share of Series K Preferred Stock remains outstanding, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series K Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and set aside for payment, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into Parity Stock or Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or for or into Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, otherwise than pursuant to     pro rata     offers to purchase all, or a     pro rata     portion, of the Series K Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock.  The foregoing shall not restrict the ability of the Corporation, or any affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in the Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of business.  When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series K Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series K Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series K Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations, on Parity Stock, bear to each other.  No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on such Parity Stock that may be in arrears.  If the board of directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of the Series K Preferred Stock prior to such date.  Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the board of directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
    
  Section 5.             Liquidation Rights  .  
    
  (a)            Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall be entitled, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series K Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidation preference in an amount equal to $1,000 per share, plus an amount equal to all declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the date of liquidation.  The holder of Series K Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to  
  
   18 

any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b)            Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference to all holders of Series K Preferred Stock and the liquidation preferences of any Parity Stock to all holders of such Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series K Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be     pro rata     in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences of Series K Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
    
  (c)            Residual Distributions  .  If the liquidation preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series K Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)            Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.             Redemption  .  
    
  (a)            Optional Redemption  .  So long as full dividends for all outstanding shares of Series K Preferred Stock and Parity Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside, and subject to applicable regulatory approvals, the Corporation, at the option of the board of directors, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of Series K Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, on any Dividend Payment Date on or after March 15, 2018 upon notice given as provided in Subsection (b) below, at the redemption price in effect at the redemption date as provided in this Section 6.  The redemption price for shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be $1,000 per share plus declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period, without interest. 
    
  (b)            Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series K Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series K Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series K Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series K Preferred Stock to be redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; and (iv) the place or places where the Series K Preferred Stock are to be redeemed. 
    
  (c)            Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series K Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series K Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either     pro rata     from the holders of record of Series K Preferred Stock in proportion to the number  
  
   19 

of Series K Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the board of directors may determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions hereof, the board of directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d)            Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the    pro rata     benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the board of directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the     pro rata     benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
    
  Section 7.             Voting Rights  .  The holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by applicable law. 
    
  (a)            Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events  .  If and whenever the dividends on the Series K Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to full dividends for at least six Dividend Periods or their equivalent (whether or not consecutive) (a    Nonpayment Event   ), the number of directors then constituting the board of directors shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of Series K Preferred Stock, voting together as a single and separate class with the holders of any outstanding shares of Voting Parity Stock, shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the    Preferred Stock Directors   ) by a plurality of the votes cast,     provided     that it shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors, and     provided further     that the board of directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights). 
    
  In the event that the holders of Series K Preferred Stock and such other holders of Voting Parity Stock shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event at the Corporation s next annual meeting of shareholders, and, except as provided below, at each subsequent annual meeting of shareholders of the Corporation. 
  
   20 

When dividends have been paid in full on the Series K Preferred Stock and any and all Voting Parity Stock for at least four consecutive Dividend Periods or their equivalent after a Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series K Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any future Nonpayment Event), and, if and when all rights of holders of Series K Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the board of directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly. 
    
  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series K Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single and separate class).  In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series K Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a single and separate class.  The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the board of directors for a vote. 
    
  (b)            Other Voting Rights  .  So long as any shares of Series K Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or by the certificate of incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of     Series K Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting separately as a single class with all other series of preferred stock ranking equally with the Series K Preferred Stock and entitled to vote thereon, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating any of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: 
    
  (i)             Issuance of Senior Stock  .  The issuance of any class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series K Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation; 
    
  (ii)            Amendment Affecting Series K Preferred Stock  .  Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series K Preferred Stock; 
    
  (iii)           Authorization of Senior Stock  .  Any amendment or alteration of any provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws to authorize, create or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series K Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation; or 
    
  (iv)           Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations  .  Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series K Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series K Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting corporation, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting corporation or a  
  
   21 

corporation controlling such corporation, and (y) such Series K Preferred Stock shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series K Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; 
  provided  ,      however  , that any amendment of the certificate of incorporation to authorize or create or to increase the authorized amount of any Junior Stock or any class or series or any securities convertible into shares of any class or series of Parity Stock or Junior Stock will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series K Preferred Stock, and the Series K Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon. 
    
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(b) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting preferred stock (including the Series K Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of preferred stock). 
    
  (c)            Changes for Clarification  .  Without the consent of the holders of Series K Preferred Stock, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series K Preferred Stock, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series K Preferred Stock: 
    
  (i)         to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or 
    
  (ii)        to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series K Preferred Stock that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations. 
    
  (d)            Changes after Provision for Redemption  .  No vote or consent of the holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to this Section 7 if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6. 
    
  (e)            Procedures for Voting and Consents  .  The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series K Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the board of directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the certificate of incorporation, the bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series K Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.  Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series K Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series K Preferred Stock are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent. 
    
  For purposes of determining the voting rights of the holders of Series K Preferred Stock under this Section 7, each holder will be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 of liquidation preference to which  
  
   22 

his or her shares are entitled.  Holders of shares of Series K Preferred Stock will be entitled to one vote for each such share of Series K Preferred Stock held by them. 
    
  Section 8.             Conversion  .  The holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series K Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9.             Rank  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the certificate of incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the board of directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series K Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock. 
    
  Section 10.           Repurchase  .  Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series K Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine;     provided  ,      however  , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11.           Unissued or Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series K Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12.           No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series K Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY     has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this      30  th      day of December, 2008. 
    
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 

By:                       /s/ Barbara S. Brett                               
              Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President 
              and Assistant Treasurer 
   /s/ Laurel A. Holschuh             
  Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on December 30, 2008.] 

23 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 
    
  7.50% NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CONVERTIBLE 
  CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES L 
  (Without Par Value) 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on November 20, 2008, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated October 2, 2008, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  Section 1.         Designation  .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated 7.50% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A Preferred Stock, Series L, with no par value and a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (hereinafter referred to as the    Series L Preferred Stock   ). Each share of Series L Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series L Preferred Stock. Series L Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding-up and liquidation of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2.         Number of Shares  .  The authorized number of shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall be 4,025,000. Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series L Preferred Stock then outstanding) by the board of directors. Shares of Series L Preferred Stock that are converted in accordance with the terms hereof, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock undesignated as to series. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series L Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3.         Definitions  .  As used herein with respect to Series L Preferred Stock: 

24 

Applicable Conversion Price    at any given time means, for each share of Series L Preferred Stock, the price equal to $1,000 divided by the Applicable Conversion Rate in effect at such time. 
    
     Applicable Conversion Rate    means the Conversion Rate in effect at any given time. 
    
     Base Price    has the meaning set forth in Section 13(d)(i). 
    
     Business Day    means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions in Charlotte, North Carolina or New York, New York are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close. 
    
     Capital Stock    of any Person means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) equity of such Person, including any preferred stock, excluding any debt securities convertible into such equity. 
    
     Closing Price    of the Common Stock on any date of determination means the closing sale price or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price of the shares of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on that date. If the Common Stock is not traded on the New York Stock Exchange on any date of determination, the Closing Price of the Common Stock on such date of determination means the closing sale price as reported in the composite transactions for the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange or securities exchange in the European Economic Area on which the Common Stock is so listed or quoted, or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price on the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange or securities exchange in the European Economic Area on which the Common Stock is so listed or quoted, or if the Common Stock is not so listed or quoted on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange or securities exchange in the European Economic Area, the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market as reported by Pink Sheets LLC or a similar organization, or, if that bid price is not available, the market price of the Common Stock on that date as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm (unaffiliated with the Corporation) retained by the Corporation for this purpose. The  Closing Price  for any other share of Capital Stock shall be determined on a comparable basis,     mutatis mutandis  .  
    
  For purposes of this Certificate of Designations, all references herein to the  Closing Price  and  last reported sale price  of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange shall be such closing sale price and last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange (http://www.nyse.com) and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service; provided that in the event that there is a discrepancy between the closing sale price or last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service, the closing sale price and last reported sale price on the website of the New York Stock Exchange will govern. 
    
  For purposes of calculating the Closing Price, if a Reorganization Event has occurred and (1) the Exchange Property consists only of shares of common securities, the Closing Price shall be based on the Closing Price of such common securities; (2) the Exchange Property consists only of cash, the Closing Price shall be the cash amount paid per share; and (3) the Exchange Property consists of securities, cash and/or other property, the Closing Price shall be based on the sum, as applicable, of (x) the Closing Price of such common securities, (y) the cash amount paid per share of Common Stock and  
  
   25 

(z) the value (as determined by the board of directors from time-to-time) of any other securities or property paid to holders of Common Stock in connection with the Reorganization Event. 
    
     Common Stock    means the common stock, $1-2/3 par value per share, of the Corporation. 
    
     Conversion Agent    means American Stock Transfer   Trust Company acting in its capacity as conversion agent for the Series L Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns or any other conversion agent appointed by the Corporation. 
    
     Conversion Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 13(a)(iv)(B). 
    
     Conversion Rate    means for each share of Series L Preferred Stock, 6.3814 shares of Common Stock, plus cash in lieu of fractional shares, subject to adjustment as set forth herein. 
    
     Current Market Price    per share of Common Stock on any date of determination means the average of the VWAP per share of Common Stock on each of the 10 consecutive VWAP Trading Days ending on the earlier of the day in question and the day before the Ex-Date or other specified date with respect to the issuance or distribution requiring such computation, appropriately adjusted to take into account the occurrence during such period of any event described in Section 14(a)(i) through (v). 
    
     Depositary    means DTC or its nominee or any successor depositary appointed by the Corporation. 
    
     Dividend Payment Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a). 
    
     Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a). 
    
     Dividend Threshold Amount    has the meaning set forth in Section 14(a)(iv). 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
     Exchange Act    means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 
    
     Exchange Property    has the meaning set forth in Section 15(a). 
    
     Ex-Date    when used with respect to any issuance or distribution, means the first date on which such shares of Common Stock or other securities trade without the right to receive an issuance or distribution with respect thereto. 
    
     Expiration Time    has the meaning set forth in Section 12(a)(v). 
    
     Expiration Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 14(a)(v). 
    
     Fiscal Quarter    means, with respect to the Corporation, the fiscal quarter publicly disclosed by the Corporation. 
    
     Fundamental Change    has the meaning set forth in Section 13(d)(i). 

26 

Holder    means the Person in whose name the shares of Series L Preferred Stock are registered, which may be treated by the Corporation, Transfer Agent, Registrar, paying agent and Conversion Agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Series L Preferred Stock for the purpose of making payment and settling conversions and for all other purposes. 
    
     Junior Stock    means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series L Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding-up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
     Make-Whole Acquisition    means the occurrence, prior to any Conversion Date, of one of the following: 
    
  (a)           person    or    group    within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act files a Schedule TO or any schedule, form or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect ultimate  beneficial owner,  as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of common equity of the Corporation representing more than 50% of the voting power of the Common Stock; or 
    
  (b)        consummation of any consolidation or merger of the Corporation or similar transaction or any sale, lease or other transfer in one transaction or a series of related transactions of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any Person other than one of the Corporation s subsidiaries, in each case, pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities, or other property, other than pursuant to a transaction in which the Persons that  beneficially owned  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) directly or indirectly, Voting Shares immediately prior to such transaction beneficially own, directly or indirectly, Voting Shares representing a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding classes of Voting Shares of the continuing or surviving Person immediately after the transaction;   provided  ,      however   that a Make-Whole Acquisition will not be deemed to have occurred if at least 90% of the consideration received by holders of the Common Stock in the transaction or transactions (as determined by the board of directors) consists of shares of common securities of a Person or American Depositary Receipts in respect of such common securities that are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or a securities exchange in the European Economic Area or that will be traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or a securities exchange in the European Economic Area when issued or exchanged in connection with a Make-Whole Acquisition. 
    
     Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion    has the meaning set forth in Section 13(c)(i). 
    
     Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 13(c)(i). 
    
     Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 13(c)(i). 
    
     Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price    means the price paid per share of Common Stock in the event of a Make-Whole Acquisition. If the holders of shares of Common Stock receive only cash in the Make-Whole Acquisition in a single per-share amount, other than with respect to appraisal and similar rights, the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price shall be the cash amount paid per share of Common Stock. For purposes of the preceding sentence as applied to a Make-Whole Acquisition of the type set forth in clause (a) of the definition Make-Whole Acquisition, a single price per share of Common Stock  
  
   27 

shall be deemed to have been paid only if the transaction or transactions that caused the Make-Whole Acquisition to occur was a tender offer for more than 50% of the then-outstanding Common Stock. Otherwise, the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price shall be the average of the Closing Price per share of Common Stock on the ten Trading Days up to, but not including, the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date. 
    
     Make-Whole Shares    has the meaning set forth in Section 13(c)(i). 
    
     Mandatory Conversion Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 13(b)(iii). 
    
     Market Disruption Event    means any of the following events that has occurred: 
    
  (a)        change or quotation system on which the VWAP is determined pursuant to the definition of the VWAP Trading Day (a    Relevant Exchange   ) during the one-hour period prior to the close of trading for the regular trading session on the Relevant Exchange (or for purposes of determining the VWAP per share of Common Stock any period or periods aggregating one half-hour or longer during the regular trading session on the relevant day) and whether by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the Relevant Exchange, or otherwise relating to Common Stock or in futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange; 
    
  (b)        any event (other than an event described in clause (c)) that disrupts or impairs (as determined by the Corporation in its reasonable discretion) the ability of market participants during the one-hour period prior to the close of trading for the regular trading session on the Relevant Exchange (or for purposes of determining the VWAP per share of Common Stock any period or periods aggregating one half-hour or longer during the regular trading session on the relevant day) in general to effect transactions in, or obtain market values for, the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange or to effect transactions in, or obtain market values for, futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock on the Relevant Exchange; or 
    
  (c)        the failure to open of the Relevant Exchange on which futures or options contracts relating to the Common Stock, are traded or the closure of such Relevant Exchange prior to its respective scheduled closing time for the regular trading session on such day (without regard to after hours or any other trading outside of the regular trading session hours) unless such earlier closing time is announced by such Relevant Exchange at least one hour prior to the earlier of the actual closing time for the regular trading session on such day and the submission deadline for orders to be entered into such Relevant Exchange for execution at the actual closing time on such day. 
    
     Nonpayment Event    has the meaning set forth in Section 7(a). 
    
     Notice of Mandatory Conversion    has the meaning set forth in Section 13(b)(iii). 
    
     Parity Stock    means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par with Series L Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding-up and liquidation of the Corporation. 
    
     Person    means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust. 

28 

Preferred Stock Directors    has the meaning set forth in Section 7(a). 
    
     Purchased Shares    has the meaning set forth in Section 12(a)(v). 
    
     Record Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 12(d), except for purposes of Section 14. 
    
     Reference Price    means the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price. 
    
     Registrar    means American Stock Transfer   Trust Company acting in its capacity as registrar for the Series L Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns or any other registrar appointed by the Corporation. 
    
     Relevant Exchange    has the meaning set forth above in the definition of Market Disruption Event. 
    
     Reorganization Event    has the meaning set forth in Section 15(a). 
    
     Series L Preferred Stock    has the meaning set forth in Section 1. 
    
     Trading Day    means a day on which the shares of Common Stock: 
    
  (a)        are not suspended from trading on any national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market at the close of business; and 
    
  (b)        have traded at least once on the national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market that is the primary market for the trading of the Common Stock. 
    
     Transfer Agent    shall mean American Stock Transfer   Trust Company acting in its capacity as transfer agent for the Series L Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns or any other transfer agent appointed by the Corporation. 
    
     Voting Parity Stock    means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series L Preferred Stock. 
    
     Voting Shares    of a Person means shares of all classes of Capital Stock of such Person then outstanding and normally entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of the board of directors of such Person. 
    
     VWAP    per share of the Common Stock on any VWAP Trading Day means the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading Bloomberg VWAP on Bloomberg page WFC equity AQR (or its equivalent successor if such page is not available) in respect of the period from the open of trading on the relevant VWAP Trading Day until the close of trading on the relevant VWAP Trading Day (or if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market price of one share of Common Stock on such VWAP Trading Days determined, using a volume-weighted average method, by a nationally recognized investment banking firm (unaffiliated with the Corporation) retained for this purpose by the Corporation). The VWAP for any other share of Capital Stock shall be determined on a comparable basis,  mutatis mutandis. 

29 

VWAP Trading Day    means, for purposes of determining a VWAP per share of Common Stock, a Business Day on which the Relevant Exchange (as defined in the definition of Market Disruption Event) is scheduled to be open for business and on which there has not occurred or does not exist a Market Disruption Event. 
    
  Section 4.         Dividends  .  
    
  (a)            Rate  .  Holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the board of directors, but only out of funds legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the 
  liquidation preference of $1,000 per share of Series L Preferred Stock, and no more, from the date of issuance at a rate     per annum     equal to 7.50%, payable quarterly in arrears on each March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15, commencing June 15, 2008. The term  Dividend Payment Date  means March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15. If any date specified pursuant the preceding sentence is not a Business Day, then dividends will be payable on the first Business Day following such date and dividends shall be payable to the actual payment date and no interest or other payment shall be paid with respect of such delay. The term  Dividend Period  means each period from and including a Dividend Payment Date (or the date of issuance of the Series L Preferred Stock for the first Dividend Payment Date) to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date;  provided     that the first Dividend Period shall be deemed to have commenced on December 15, 2008. The amount of dividends payable for any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. 
    
  (b)            Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series L Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends payable in respect of the Dividend Period ending immediately prior to such Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Payment Date, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to the Series L Preferred Stock, any Parity Stock, any Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. Holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends for each Dividend Period on the Series L Preferred Stock. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments or failure to make any Dividend Payment or Dividend Payments. 
    
  (c)            Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any share of Series L Preferred Stock remains outstanding and, as to any Junior Stock or Parity Stock then outstanding, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series L Preferred Stock for the Dividend Period ending on or immediately prior to the dividend payment date or other payment date for such Junior Stock or Parity Stock have been paid in full or declared and set aside for payment, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on such Junior Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock) or on such Parity Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than (1) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, (2) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (3) through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock or (4) in connection with the  
  
   30 

satisfaction of the Corporation s obligations pursuant to any contract entered into in the ordinary course prior to the beginning of such Dividend Period), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation, and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than (1) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (2) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or for or into Junior Stock, (3) through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock or (4) in connection with the satisfaction of the Corporation s obligations pursuant to any contract entered into in the ordinary course prior to the beginning of such Dividend Period), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation (other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale described in clause (ii)(3) or (iii)(3) above), otherwise than pursuant to     pro rata     offers to purchase all, or a     pro rata   portion, of the Series L Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock. 
    
  When dividends are not paid in full upon the Series L Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, dividends upon shares of the Series L Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock will be declared on a proportional basis, based upon the ratio of the amount of dividends declared on the Series L Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock to the amount that, if declared, would be full dividends (including accrued and unpaid dividends as to any Parity Stock that bears dividends on a cumulative basis) on the Series L Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock through the next succeeding applicable dividend payment date. If the board of directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of the Series L Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the board of directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
    
  Section 5.         Liquidation Rights  .  
    
  (a)            Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding-up and liquidation of the Corporation, holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall be entitled, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any Parity Stock or class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with the Series L Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s creditors, to receive in full a liquidation preference in an amount equal to $1,000 per share, plus an amount equal to all declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series L Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding-up and liquidation of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b)            Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference to all holders of Series L Preferred Stock and the liquidation preferences of any Parity Stock to all holders of such Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series L Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be    pro rata    in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences of Series L Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
    
  (c)            Residual Distributions  .  If the applicable liquidation preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series L Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of  
  
   31 

Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)            Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding-up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding-up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.         Redemption  .  The shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable. 
    
  Section 7.         Voting Rights  .  The holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by applicable law. 
    
  (a)            Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events  .  If after the issuance of the Series L Preferred Stock the Corporation fails to pay, or declare and set aside for payment, full dividends on the Series L Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock for six Dividend Periods or their equivalent (whether or not consecutive) (a    Nonpayment Event   ), the number of directors then constituting the board of directors shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of Series L Preferred Stock, voting together as a single and separate class with the holders of all outstanding shares of Voting Parity Stock, shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the    Preferred Stock Directors   ) by a plurality of the votes cast; provided that it shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors; and provided further that the board of directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights). 
    
  In the event that the holders of Series L Preferred Stock and such other holders of Voting Parity Stock shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event at the Corporation s next annual meeting of shareholders, and, except as provided below, at each subsequent annual meeting of shareholders of the Corporation. 
    
  When dividends have been paid in full on the Series L Preferred Stock and any and all Voting Parity Stock for at least four consecutive Dividend Periods or their equivalent after a Nonpayment Event, then the right of then holders of Series L Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such rights in the case of any future Nonpayment Event), and, if and when all rights of holders of Series L Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the board of directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly. 

32 

Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series L Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single and separate class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series L Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a single and separate class. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the board of directors for a vote. 
    
  (b)            Other Voting Rights  .  So long as any shares of Series L Preferred Stock are outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66      2/3 % of the shares of Series L Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting separately as a single class with all other classes or series of preferred stock ranking equally with the Series L Preferred Stock and entitled to vote thereon, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating any of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: 
    
  (i)             Amendment Affecting Series L Preferred Stock  .  Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series L Preferred Stock. 
    
  (ii)            Authorization or Issuance of Senior Stock  .  Any amendment or alteration of any provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws to authorize, create or increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of Capital Stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series L Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary dissolution, winding-up and liquidation of the affairs of the Corporation; or 
    
  (iii)           Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations  .  Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series L Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another Person, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series L Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting Person, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting Person or a Person controlling such Person, and (y) such Series L Preferred Stock shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series L Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;   provided  ,      however  , that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized amount of or issuance of Series L Preferred Stock or any class or series of Parity Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series L Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series L Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon. 
    
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(b) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting preferred stock (including the Series L Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of preferred stock). 

33 

(c)            Changes for Clarification  .  Without the consent of the holders of Series L Preferred Stock, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and 
  limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series L Preferred Stock, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series L Preferred Stock: 
    
  (i)         to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or 
    
  (ii)        to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series L Preferred Stock that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations. 
    
  (d)            Procedures for Voting and Consents  .  The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series L Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the board of directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the certificate of incorporation, the bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series L Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series L Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series L Preferred Stock are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent. 
    
  For purposes of determining the voting rights of the holders of Series L Preferred Stock under this Section 7, each holder will be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 of liquidation preference to which his or her shares are entitled. Holders of shares of Series L Preferred Stock will be entitled to one vote for each such share of Series L Preferred Stock held by them. 
    
  Section 8.         Rank  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the certificate of incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the board of directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series L Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock. 
    
  Section 9.         Repurchase  .  Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series L Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine;     provided  ,      however  , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 10.       Unissued or Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series L Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted in accordance with the terms hereof or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Ssection 11.      No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series L Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 

34 

Section 12.       Right to Convert  .  Each Holder shall have the right, at such Holder s option, at any time, to convert all or any portion of such Holder s Series L Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Applicable Conversion Rate (subject to the conversion procedures set forth in Section 13 herein) plus cash in lieu of fractional shares. 
    
  Section 13.       Conversion  .  
    
  (a)            Conversion Procedures  .  
    
  (i)         Effective immediately prior to the close of business on the Mandatory Conversion Date or any applicable Conversion Date, dividends shall no longer be declared on any converted shares of Series L Preferred Stock and such shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall cease to be outstanding, in each case, subject to the right of Holders to receive any declared and unpaid dividends on such shares and any other payments to which they are otherwise entitled pursuant to Section 12, Section 13(b), Section 13(c), Section 13(d), Section 15 or Section 16, as applicable. 
    
  (ii)        Prior to the close of business on the Mandatory Conversion Date or any applicable Conversion Date, shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of, or other securities issuable upon conversion of, any shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall not be deemed outstanding for any purpose, and Holders shall have no rights with respect to the Common Stock or other securities issuable upon conversion (including voting rights, rights to respond to tender offers for the Common Stock and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock and/or other securities issuable upon conversion), by virtue of holding shares of Series L Preferred Stock. 
    
  (iii)       The Person or Persons entitled to receive the Common Stock and/or other securities issuable upon conversion of Series L Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder(s) of such shares of Common Stock and/or such other securities as of the close of business on the Mandatory Conversion Date or any applicable Conversion Date except to the extent that all or a portion of such Common Stock is subject to the limitations set forth in Section 18. In the event that a Holder shall not by written notice designate the name in which shares of Common Stock and/or cash, other securities or other property (including payments of cash in lieu of fractional shares) to be issued or paid upon conversion of shares of Series L Preferred Stock should be registered or paid or the manner in which such shares should be delivered, the Corporation shall be entitled to register and deliver such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the Holder and in the manner shown on the records of the Corporation through book-entry transfer through the Depositary. 
    
  (iv)       Conversion into shares of Common Stock will occur on the Mandatory Conversion Date or any applicable Conversion Date as follows: 
    
  (A)       On the Mandatory Conversion Date or applicable Conversion Date, certificates or evidence of shares in book-entry form representing shares of Common Stock shall be issued and delivered to Holders or their designee upon presentation and surrender of the certificate evidencing the Series L Preferred Stock to the Conversion Agent if shares of the Series L Preferred Stock are held in certificated form, and, if required, the furnishing of appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the payment of all transfer and similar taxes. If a Holder s interest is a beneficial interest in a global certificate representing Series L Preferred Stock, a book-entry transfer through the Depositary will be made by the Conversion Agent upon compliance with the Depositary s procedures for converting a beneficial interest in a global security. 

35 

(B)       On the date of any conversion at the option of Holders pursuant to Section 12, Section 13(c) or Section 13(d), if a Holder s interest is in certificated form, a Holder must do each of the following in order to convert: 
    
  (1)        complete and manually sign the conversion notice provided by the Conversion Agent, or a facsimile of the conversion notice, and deliver this irrevocable notice to the Conversion Agent; 
    
  (2)        surrender the shares of Series L Preferred Stock to the Conversion Agent; 
    
  (3)        if required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents; 
    
  (4)        if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes; and 
    
  (5)        if required, pay funds equal to any declared and unpaid dividend payable on the next Dividend Payment Date. 
    
  If a Holder s interest is a beneficial interest in a global certificate representing Series L Preferred Stock, in order to convert a Holder must comply with clauses (3) through (5) listed above and comply with the Depositary s procedures for converting a beneficial interest in a global security. 
    
  The date on which a Holder complies with the procedures in this clause (v) is the  Conversion Date.  
    
  (C)       Conversion Agent shall, on a Holder s behalf, convert the Series L Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock and/or cash, other securities or other property (involving payments of cash in lieu of fractional shares), in accordance with the terms of the notice delivered by such Holder described in clause (B) above. If a Conversion Date on which a Holder elects to convert Series L Preferred Stock is prior to the Record Date relating to any declared dividend for the Dividend Period, such Holder will not have the right to receive any declared dividends for that Dividend Period. If a Conversion Date on which a Holder elects to convert Series L Preferred Stock or the Mandatory Conversion Date is after the Record Date for any declared dividend and prior to the Dividend Payment Date, such Holder shall receive that dividend on the relevant Dividend Payment Date if such Holder was the Holder of record on the Record Date for that dividend. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Conversion Date is after the Record Date and prior to the Dividend Payment Date, whether or not such Holder was the Holder of record on the Record Date, the Holder must pay to the Conversion Agent upon conversion of the shares of Series L Preferred Stock an amount in cash equal to the full dividend actually paid on the Dividend Payment Date for the then-current Dividend Period on the shares of Series L Preferred Stock being converted, unless the Holder s shares of Series L Preferred Stock are being converted pursuant to Section 13(b), Section 13(c) or Section 13(d). 
    
  (b)            Mandatory Conversion at the Corporation s Option  .  
    
  (i)         On or after March 15, 2013, the Corporation may, at its option, at any time or from time to time, cause some or all of the Series L Preferred Stock to be converted into shares of Common Stock at the Applicable Conversion Rate if, for 20 Trading Days during any period of 30 consecutive Trading Days, including the last Trading Day of such period, the Closing Price of the  
  
   36 

Common Stock exceeds 130% of the Applicable Conversion Price of the Series L Preferred Stock. The Corporation will provide Notice of Mandatory Conversion as set forth in Section 13(b)(iii) within three Trading Days after the end of the 30 consecutive Trading Day period. 
    
  (ii)        If the Corporation elects to cause less than all of the Series L Preferred Stock to be converted under clause (i) above, the Conversion Agent will select the Series L Preferred Stock to be converted by lot, or on a     pro rata     basis or by another method the Conversion Agent considers fair and appropriate, including any method required by the Depositary (so long as such method is not prohibited by the rules of any stock exchange or quotation association on which the Series L Preferred Stock is then traded or quoted). If the Conversion Agent selects a portion of a Holder s Series L Preferred Stock for partial conversion at the Corporation s option and such Holder converts a portion of its shares of Series L Preferred Stock at the same time, the portion converted at such Holder s option will reduce the portion selected for conversion at the Corporation s option under this Section 13(b). 
    
  (iii)       If the Corporation exercises the optional conversion right described in this Section 13(b), the Corporation shall give notice (such notice a    Notice of Mandatory Conversion   ) by (i) providing a notice of such conversion by first class mail to each Holder of record for the shares of Series L Preferred Stock to be converted or (ii) issuing a press release and making this information available on its website. The Conversion Date shall be a date selected by the Corporation (the    Mandatory Conversion Date   ), not less than 10 days, and not more than 20 days, after the date on which the Corporation provides the Notice of Mandatory Conversion. In addition to any information required by applicable law or regulation, the Notice of Mandatory Conversion shall state, as appropriate: 
    
  (A)       the Mandatory Conversion Date; 
    
  (B)       the number of shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of each share of Series L Preferred Stock; and 
    
  (C)       the aggregate number of shares of Series L Preferred Stock to be converted. 
    
  (c)            Conversion upon Make-Whole Acquisition  .  
    
  (i)         In the event of a Make-Whole Acquisition occurring prior to a Mandatory Conversion Date or Conversion Date, each Holder shall have the option to convert its shares of Series L Preferred Stock (a    Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion   ) during the period (the    Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Period   ) beginning on the effective date of the Make-Whole Acquisition (the    Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date   ) and ending on the date that is 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and receive an additional number of shares of Common Stock (the    Make-Whole Shares   ) as set forth in clause (ii) below. 
    
  (ii)        The number of Make-Whole Shares per share of Series L Preferred Stock shall be determined by reference to the table below for the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price: 
    
  Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price 
  
   37 

(A)       The exact Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices and Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Dates may not be set forth in the table, in which case: 
    
  (1)        if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is between two Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price amounts in the table or the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date is between two dates in the table, the number of Make-Whole Shares will be determined by straight-line interpolation between the number of Make-Whole Shares set forth for the higher and lower Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price amounts and the two Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year; 
    
  (2)        if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is in excess of $502.26 per share (subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 14), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock; and 
    
  (3)        if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is less than $120.54 per share (subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 14), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock. 
    
  (B)       The Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices set forth in the table above are subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 14 hereof and shall be adjusted as of any date the Conversion Rate is adjusted. The adjusted Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices will equal the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. Each of the number of Make-Whole Shares in the table shall also be subject to adjustment in the same manner as the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 14. 
    
  (iii)       On or before the twentieth day prior to the date the Corporation anticipates being the effective date for the Make-Whole Acquisition or within two business days of becoming aware of a Make-Whole Acquisition of the type set forth in clause (a) of the definition Make-Whole Acquisition, a written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain: 

38 

(A)       the anticipated effective date or effective date of the Make-Whole Acquisition; and 
    
  (B)       the date, which shall be 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date, by which a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion must be exercised. 
    
  (iv)       On the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date or as soon as practicable thereafter, another written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain: 
    
  (A)       the date that shall be 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date; 
    
  (B)       the number of Make-Whole Shares; 
    
  (C)       the amount of cash, securities and other consideration receivable by a Holder of Series L Preferred Stock upon conversion; and 
    
  (D)       the instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in connection with such Make-Whole Acquisition. 
    
  (v)        To exercise a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option, a Holder must, no later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time on or before the date by which the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under clause (iv) above, comply with the procedures set forth in Section 13(a)(iv)(B). 
    
  (vi)       If a Holder does not elect to exercise the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option in accordance with the provisions specified in this Section 13(c), the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or successor security held by it shall remain outstanding (unless otherwise converted as provided herein), and the Holder will not be eligible to receive Make-Whole Shares. 
    
  (vii)      Upon a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion, the Conversion Agent shall, except as otherwise provided in the instructions provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the Corporation or its successor as set forth in Section 13(a)(iv) above, deliver to the Holder such cash, securities or other property as are issuable with respect to Make-Whole Shares in the Make-Whole Acquisition. 
    
  (viii)     In the event that a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion is effected with respect to shares of Series L Preferred Stock or a successor security representing less than all the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or a successor security held by a Holder, upon such Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion the Corporation or its successor shall execute and the Conversion Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation or its successors, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or such successor security held by the Holder as to which a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion was not effected. 
    
  (d)            Conversion Upon Fundamental Change  .  
  
   39 

(i)         If the Reference Price in connection with a Make-Whole Acquisition is less than $120.54 (a    Fundamental Change   ), a Holder may elect to convert each share of Series L Preferred Stock during the period beginning on the effective date of the Fundamental Change and ending on the date that is 30 days after the effective date of such Fundamental Change at an adjusted conversion price equal to the greater of (1) the Reference Price and (2) $60.27, subject to adjustment as described in clause (ii) below (the    Base Price   ). If the Reference Price is less than the Base Price, Holders will receive a maximum of 16.5916 shares of Common Stock per share of Series L Preferred Stock converted, subject to adjustment as a result of any adjustment to the Base Price described in clause (ii) below. 
    
  (ii)        The Base Price shall be adjusted as of any date the Conversion Rate of the Series L Preferred Stock is adjusted pursuant to Section 14. The adjusted Base Price shall equal the Base Price applicable immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Conversion Rate adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. 
    
  (iii)       In lieu of issuing Common Stock upon conversion in the event of a Fundamental Change, the Corporation may at its option, and if it obtains any necessary regulatory approval, pay an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) equal to the Reference Price for each share of Common Stock otherwise issuable upon conversion. 
    
  (iv)       On or before the twentieth day prior to the date the Corporation anticipates being the effective date for the Fundamental Change or within two business days of becoming aware of the Fundamental Change if it is a Make-Whole Acquisition of the type set forth in clause (a) of the definition Make-Whole Acquisition, a written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain: 
    
  (A)       the anticipated effective date of the Fundamental Change; and 
    
  (B)       the date, which shall be 30 days after the anticipated effective date of a Fundamental Change, by which a Fundamental Change conversion must be exercised. 
    
  (v)        On the effective date of a Fundamental Change or as soon as practicable thereafter, another written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain: 
    
  (A)       the date that shall be 30 days after the effective date of the Fundamental Change; 
    
  (B)       the adjusted conversion price following the Fundamental Change; 
    
  (C)       the amount of cash, securities and other consideration received by a Holder of Series L Preferred Stock upon conversion; and 

40 

(D)       the instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in connection with such Fundamental Change. 
    
  (vi)       To exercise its conversion option upon a Fundamental Change, a Holder must, no later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time on or before the date by which the conversion option upon the Fundamental Change must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under clause (v) above, comply with the procedures set forth in Section 13 (a)(v)(B) and indicate that it is exercising the Fundamental Change conversion option. 
    
  (vii)      If a Holder does not elect to exercise its conversion option upon a Fundamental Change in accordance with the provisions specified in this Section 13(d), the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or successor security held by it shall remain outstanding (unless otherwise converted as provided herein) and the Holder will not be eligible to convert its shares pursuant to this Section 13(d). 
    
  (viii)     Upon a conversion upon a Fundamental Change, the Conversion Agent shall, except as otherwise provided in the instructions provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the Corporation or its successor as set forth in Section 13(a)(iv), deliver to the Holder such cash, securities or other property as are issuable with respect to the adjusted conversion price following the Fundamental Change. 
    
  (ix)       In the event that a conversion upon a Fundamental Change is effected with respect to shares of Series L Preferred Stock or a successor security representing less than all the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or a successor security held by a Holder, upon such conversion the Corporation or its successor shall execute and the Conversion Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or such successor security held by the Holder as to which a conversion upon a Fundamental Change was not effected. 
    
  Section 14.       Anti-Dilution Adjustments  .  
    
  (a)            Adjustments  .  The Conversion Rate will be subject to adjustment, without duplication, under the following circumstances: 
    
  (i)         The issuance of Common Stock as a dividend or distribution to all holders of Common Stock or a subdivision or combination of Common Stock (other than in connection with a Reorganization Event), in which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula: 
    
  CR   1   = CR  0   x (OS   1   / OS  0  ) 
    
  where, 
    
  CR  0           =          the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Record Date 
  CR  1           =          the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Record Date 
  OS  0           =          the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the Record Date prior to giving effect to such event 
  OS  1           =          the number of shares of Common Stock that would be outstanding immediately after, and solely as a result of, such event 
  
   41 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, (1) no adjustment will be made for the issuance of Common Stock as a dividend or distribution to all holders of Common Stock that is made in lieu of a quarterly or annual cash dividend or distribution to such holders, to the extent such dividend or distribution does not exceed the applicable Dividend Threshold Amount (with the amount of any such dividend or distribution equaling the number of such shares being issued multiplied by the average of the VWAP of the Common Stock over each of the five consecutive VWAP Trading Days prior to the Ex-Date for such dividend or distribution) and (2) in the event any dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination that is the subject of this Section 14(a)(i) is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall be immediately readjusted, effective as of the date the board of directors publicly announces its decision not to pay or make such dividend or distribution or effect such subdivision or combination, to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared or such subdivision or combination had not been announced. 
    
  (ii)        The issuance to all holders of Common Stock of certain rights or warrants (other than rights issued pursuant to a shareholder rights plan or rights or warrants issued in connection with a Reorganization Event) entitling them for a period expiring 60 days or less from the date of issuance of such rights or warrants to purchase shares of Common Stock (or securities convertible into Common Stock) at less than (or having a conversion price per share less than) the Current Market Price as of the Record Date, in which event each Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula: 
    
  CR   1   = CR  0   x [(OS  0   + X) / (OS  0   + Y)] 
    
  where, 
    
  CR  0           =          the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Record Date 
  CR  1           =          the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Record Date 
  OS  0           =          the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the Record Date 
  X            =          the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to such rights or warrants (or upon conversion of such securities) 
  Y            =          the number of shares equal to the quotient of the aggregate price payable to exercise such rights or warrants (or the conversion price for such securities paid upon conversion) divided by the average of the VWAP of the Common Stock over each of the ten consecutive VWAP Trading Days prior to the Business Day immediately preceding the announcement of the issuance of such rights or warrants 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (1) in the event that such rights or warrants described in this Section 14(a)(ii) are not so issued, the Conversion Rate shall be immediately readjusted, effective as of the date the board of directors publicly announces its decision not to issue such rights or warrants, to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such issuance had not been declared and (2) to the extent that such rights or warrants are not exercised prior to their expiration or shares of the Common Stock are otherwise not delivered pursuant to such rights or warrants upon the exercise of such rights or warrants, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered. 

42 

In determining the aggregate price payable for such shares of the Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received by the Corporation for such rights or warrants and the value of such consideration (if other than cash, to be determined by the board of directors). If an adjustment to the Conversion Rate may be required pursuant to this Section 14(a)(ii), delivery of any additional shares of Common Stock that may be deliverable upon conversion as a result of an adjustment required pursuant to this Section 14(a)(ii) shall be delayed to the extent necessary in order to complete the calculations provided for in this Section 14(a)(ii). 
    
  (iii)       The dividend or other distribution to all holders of Common Stock of shares of capital stock of the Corporation (other than Common Stock) or evidences of its indebtedness or its assets (excluding any dividend, distribution or issuance covered by clauses (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above or (a)(iv) below, any dividend or distribution in connection with a Reorganization Event or any spin-off to which the provisions set forth below in this clause (a)(iii) apply) in which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula: 
    
  CR   1   = CR  0   x [SP  0   / (SP  0     FMV)] 
    
  where, 
    
  CR  0           =          the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Record Date 
  CR  1           =          the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Record Date 
  SP  0            =          the Current Market Price as of the Record Date 
  FMV      =          the fair market value (as determined by the board of directors) on the Record Date of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation, evidences of indebtedness or assets so distributed, applicable to one share of Common Stock 
    
  However, if the transaction that gives rise to an adjustment pursuant to this clause (iii) is one pursuant to which the payment of a dividend or other distribution on Common Stock consists of shares of capital stock of the Corporation of, or similar equity interests in, a subsidiary or other business unit of the Corporation (  i.e.,      a spin-off) that are, or, when issued, will be, traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Stock Market or any other national or regional securities exchange or market, then the Conversion Rate will instead be adjusted based on the following formula: 
    
  CR   1   = CR  0   x [(FMV  0   + MP  0  ) / MP  0  ] 
    
  where, 
    
  CR  0           =          the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Record Date 
  CR  1           =          the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Record Date 
  FMV  0       =          the average of the VWAP of the Capital Stock distributed to holders of Common Stock applicable to one share of Common Stock over each of the 10 consecutive VWAP Trading Days commencing on and including the third VWAP Trading Day after the date on which  ex-distribution trading  commences for such dividend or distribution on the NYSE or such other national or regional exchange or association or over-the-counter market, or, if not so traded or quoted, the fair market value of the capital stock or similar equity interests distributed to holders of Common Stock applicable to one share of Common Stock as determined by the board of directors 
  MP  0       =          the average of the VWAP of the Common Stock over each of the 10 consecutive VWAP Trading Days commencing on and including the third VWAP Trading Day after the date on which  ex-distribution trading  commences for such dividend or distribution on the NYSE or such other  
  
   43 

national or regional exchange or association or over-the-counter market on which Common Stock is then traded or quoted 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (1) if any dividend or distribution of the type described in this Section 14(a)(iii) is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall be immediately readjusted, effective as of 
  the date the board of directors publicly announces its decision not to pay such dividend or distribution, to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared. If an adjustment to the Conversion Rate may be required under this Section 14(a)(iii), delivery of any additional shares of Common Stock that may be deliverable upon conversion as a result of an adjustment required under this Section 14(a)(iii) shall be delayed to the extent necessary in order to complete the calculations provided for in this Section 14(a)(iii). 
    
  (iv)       The Corporation makes a distribution consisting exclusively of cash to all holders of Common Stock, excluding (a) any regular cash dividend on Common Stock to the extent that the aggregate cash dividend per share of Common Stock does not exceed $1.8835 in any fiscal quarter (the    Dividend Threshold Amount   ) and (b) any consideration payable in connection with a tender or exchange offer made by the Corporation or any its subsidiaries referred to in clause (v) below, in which event, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula: 
    
  CR   1   = CR  0   x [SP  0   / (SP  0     C)] 
    
  where, 
    
  CR  0           =          the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Record Date 
  CR  1           =          the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Record Date 
  SP  0            =          the Current Market Price as of the Record Date 
  C            =          the amount in cash per share equal to (1) in the case of a regular quarterly dividend, the amount the Corporation distributes to holders or pays, less the Dividend Threshold Amount or (2) in any other case, the amount the Corporation distributes to holders or pays 
    
  The Dividend Threshold Amount is subject to adjustment on an inversely proportional basis whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted; provided that no adjustment will be made to the Dividend Threshold Amount for any adjustment made to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this clause (iv). 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any dividend or distribution of the type described in this Section 14(a)(iv) is declared but not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall be immediately readjusted, effective as of the date the board of directors publicly announces its decision not to pay such dividend or distribution, to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared. 
    
  (v)        The Corporation or one or more of its subsidiaries make purchases of Common Stock pursuant to a tender offer or exchange offer by the Corporation or a subsidiary of the Corporation for Common Stock to the extent that the cash and value (as determined by the board of directors) of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock validly tendered or exchanged exceeds the VWAP per share of Common Stock on the VWAP Trading Day next succeeding the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (the    Expiration Date   ), in which event the Conversion Rate will be adjusted based on the following formula: 
  
   44 

CR  1   = CR  0   x [(FMV + (SP  1   x OS  1  ) / (SP   1   x OS  0  )] 
    
  where, 
    
  CR  0           =          the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on the Expiration Date 
  CR  1           =          the Conversion Rate in effect immediately after the Expiration Date 
  FMV      =          the fair market value (as determined by the board of directors), on the Expiration Date, of the aggregate value of all cash and any other consideration paid or payable for shares validly tendered or exchanged and not withdrawn as of the Expiration Date (the    Purchased Shares   )  
  OS  1           =          the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of the last time tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (the    Expiration Time   ) less any Purchased Shares 
  OS  0           =          the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the Expiration Time, including any Purchased Shares 
  SP  1            =          the average of the VWAP of the Common Stock over each of the ten consecutive VWAP Trading Days commencing with the VWAP Trading Day immediately after the Expiration Date. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Corporation, or one of its subsidiaries, is obligated to purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to any such tender or exchange offer, but the Corporation or such subsidiary is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases, or all such purchases are rescinded, then the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made. If an adjustment to the Conversion Rate may be required under this Section 14(a)(v), delivery of any additional shares of Common Stock that may be deliverable upon conversion as a result of an adjustment required under this Section 14(a)(v) shall be delayed to the extent necessary in order to complete the calculations provided for in this Section 14(a)(v). 
    
  (b)            Calculation of Adjustments  .  All adjustments to the Conversion Rate shall be calculated by the Corporation to the nearest 1/10,000th of one share of Common Stock (or if there is not a nearest 1/10,000th of a share, to the next lower 1/10,000th of a share). No adjustment to the Conversion Rate will be required unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least one percent;     provided  ,     however  , that any such minor adjustments that are not required to be made will be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment, and provided further that any such adjustment of less than one percent that has not been made will be made prior to any conversion pursuant to Section 13(b), Section 13(c) or Section 13(d). 
    
  (c)            When No Adjustment Required  .  
    
  (i)         Except as otherwise provided in this Section 14, the Conversion Rate will not be adjusted for the issuance of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock or carrying the right to purchase any of the foregoing or for the repurchase of Common Stock. 
    
  (ii)            Rights Plans  .  To the extent that the Corporation has a stockholders  rights plan in effect upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock into Common Stock, Holders will receive, in addition to any of Common Stock deliverable and in lieu of any adjustment to the Conversion Rate, the rights under the stockholders  rights plan, unless prior to any conversion, the rights  
  
   45 

have separated from Common Stock, in which case the Conversion Rate will be adjusted at the time of separation as if we distributed to all holders of Common Stock, shares of the Corporation s Capital Stock, evidences of indebtedness or assets as described in Section 14(a)(iii). A further adjustment will occur as described in Section 14(a)(iii), if such rights become exercisable to purchase different securities, evidences of indebtedness or assets, subject to readjustment in the event of the expiration, termination or redemption of such rights. 
    
  (iii)       No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made: 
    
  (A)       upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on securities of the Corporation and the investment of additional optional amounts in Common Stock under any plan; 
    
  (B)       upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights to purchase those shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director or consultant benefit plan or program of or assumed by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries; or 
    
  (C)       upon the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right, or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the date the Series L Preferred Stock was first issued. 
    
  (iv)       No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made for a transaction referred to in Section 14(a)(i) through (v) if Holders may participate in the transaction on a basis and with notice that the board of directors determines to be fair and appropriate in light of the basis and notice on which holders of Common Stock participate in the transaction. 
    
  (v)        No adjustment to the Conversion Rate need be made for a change in the par value or no par value of the Common Stock. 
    
  (vi)       No adjustment to the Conversion Rate will be made to the extent that such adjustment would result in the Conversion Price being less than the par value of the Common Stock. 
    
  (d)            Record Date  .  For purposes of this Section 14,  Record Date  means, with respect to any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of the Common Stock have the right to receive any cash, securities or other property or in which the Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted into any combination of cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of holders of the Common Stock entitled to receive such cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the board of directors or by statute, contract or otherwise). 
    
  (e)            Successive Adjustments  .  After an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 14, any subsequent event requiring an adjustment under this Section 14 shall cause an adjustment to such Conversion Rate as so adjusted. 
    
  (f)            Multiple Adjustments  .  For the avoidance of doubt, if an event occurs that would trigger an adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 14 under more than one  
  
   46 

subsection hereof, such event, to the extent fully taken into account in a single adjustment, shall not result in multiple adjustments hereunder. 
    
  (g)            Other Adjustments  .  The Corporation may (but is not required to) make such increases in the Conversion Rate, in addition to those required by Section 14(a)(i) through (v), as the board of directors considers to be advisable to avoid or diminish any income tax to holders of Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of stock (or rights to acquire stock) or from any event treated as such for income tax purposes. 
    
  In addition to the foregoing, to the extent permitted by applicable law and subject to the applicable rules of the New York Stock Exchange, the Corporation from time to time may increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for any period of time if the period is at least 20 business days, the increase is irrevocable during the period and the board of directors shall have made a determination that such increase would be in the best interests of the Corporation, which determination shall be conclusive. 
    
  (h)            Notice of Adjustments  .  Whenever a Conversion Rate is adjusted as provided under Section 14, the Corporation shall within 10 Business Days following the occurrence of an event that requires such adjustment (or if the Corporation is not aware of such occurrence, as soon as reasonably practicable after becoming so aware) or within 15 calendar days of the date the Corporation makes an adjustment pursuant to Section 14(g): 
    
  (i)         compute the adjusted applicable Conversion Rate in accordance with Section 14 and prepare and transmit to the Conversion Agent an Officers  Certificate setting forth the applicable Conversion Rate, as the case may be, the method of calculation thereof in reasonable detail, and the facts requiring such adjustment and upon which such adjustment is based; and 
    
  (ii)        provide a written notice to the Holders of the occurrence of such event and a statement in reasonable detail setting forth the method by which the adjustment to the applicable Conversion Rate was determined and setting forth the adjusted applicable Conversion Rate. 
    
  (i)             Conversion Agent  .  The Conversion Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder to determine whether any facts exist that may require any adjustment of the applicable Conversion Rate or with respect to the nature or extent or calculation of any such adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed in making the same. The Conversion Agent shall be fully authorized and protected in relying on any Officers  Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 14(h) and any adjustment contained therein and the Conversion Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment unless and until it has received such certificate. The Conversion Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any shares of Common Stock, or of any securities or property, that may at the time be issued or delivered with respect to any of the Series L Preferred Stock; and the Conversion Agent makes no representation with respect thereto. The Conversion Agent shall not be responsible for any failure of the Corporation to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to a the conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock or to comply with any of the duties, responsibilities or covenants of the Corporation contained in this Section 14. 
    
  Section 15.       Reorganization Events  .  
    
  (a)        In the event of: 

47 

(i)         any consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another Person, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities, or other property of the Corporation or another Person; 
    
  (ii)        any sale, transfer, lease, or conveyance to another Person of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities, or other property; or 
    
  (iii)       any reclassification of the Common Stock into securities, including securities other than the Common Stock; or 
    
  (iv)       any statutory exchange of the Corporation s securities with another Person (other than in connection with a merger or acquisition); (any such event specified in this Section 15(a), a    Reorganization Event    each share of Series L Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization Event shall, without the consent of Holders, become convertible into the types and amounts of securities, cash, and other property that is or was receivable in such Reorganization Event by a holder of the shares of Common Stock that was not the counterparty to the Reorganization Event or an affiliate of such other party in exchange for such Common Stock (such securities, cash, and other property, the    Exchange Property   ).  
    
  (b)        In the event that holders of the shares of the Common Stock have the opportunity to elect the form of consideration to be received in such transaction, the consideration that the Holders are entitled to receive upon conversion shall be deemed to be the types and amounts of consideration received by the majority of the holders of the shares of the Common Stock that affirmatively make an election (or of all such holders if none make an election). On each Conversion Date following a Reorganization Event, the Conversion Rate then in effect will be applied to the value on such Conversion Date of the securities, cash, or other property received per share of Common Stock, determined as set forth above. The amount of Exchange Property receivable upon conversion of any Series L Preferred Stock in accordance with Section 12, Section 13(b), Section 13(c) or Section 13(d) hereof shall be determined based upon the then Applicable Conversion Rate. 
    
  (c)        The above provisions of this Section 15 shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization Events and the provisions of Section 14 shall apply to any shares of Capital Stock of the Corporation (or any successor) received by the holders of the Common Stock in any such Reorganization Event. 
    
  (d)        The Corporation (or any successor) shall, within 20 days of the occurrence of any Reorganization Event, provide written notice to the Holders of such occurrence of such event and of the type and amount of the cash, securities or other property that constitutes the Exchange Property. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the operation of this Section 15. 
    
  Section 16.       Fractional Shares  .  
    
  (a)        No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued as a result of any conversion of shares of Series L Preferred Stock. 
    
  (b)        In lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock otherwise issuable in respect of any conversion at the Corporation s option pursuant to Section 13(b) hereof or any conversion  
  
   48 

at the option of the Holder pursuant to Section 12, Section 13(c) or Section 13(d) hereof, the Corporation shall pay an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) equal to the same fraction of the Closing Price of the Common Stock determined as of the second Trading Day immediately preceding the effective date of conversion. 
    
  (c)        If more than one share of the Series L Preferred Stock is surrendered for conversion at one time by or for the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of the Series L Preferred Stock so surrendered. 
  Section 17.       Reservation of Common Stock  .  
    
  (a)        The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of Series L Preferred Stock as provided in this Certificate of Designations, free from any preemptive or other similar rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of Series L Preferred Stock then outstanding, calculated assuming the Applicable Conversion Price equals the Base Price, subject to adjustment as described under Section 14. For purposes of this Section 17(a), the number of shares of Common Stock that shall be deliverable upon the conversion of all outstanding shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall be computed as if at the time of computation all such outstanding shares were held by a single Holder. 
    
  (b)        All shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests and other encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders). 
    
  (c)        Prior to the delivery of any securities that the Corporation shall be obligated to deliver upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock, the Corporation shall use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all federal and state laws and regulations thereunder requiring the registration of such securities with, or any approval of or consent to the delivery thereof by, any governmental authority. 
    
  (d)        The Corporation hereby covenants and agrees that, so long as the Common Stock shall be listed on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or automated quotation system, the Corporation will, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system, list and keep listed all the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock;     provided  ,      however  , that if the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system permit the Corporation to defer the listing of such Common Stock until the first conversion of Series L Preferred Stock into Common Stock in accordance with the provisions hereof, the Corporation covenants to list such Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock in accordance with the requirements of such exchange or automated quotation system at such time. 
    
  Ssection 18.      Limitations on Beneficial Ownership  .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, and subject to the last sentence of this Section 18, no holder of Series L Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive shares of Common Stock upon conversion pursuant to Section 12 and Section 13 hereof to the extent, but only to the extent, that such receipt would cause such converting holder to become, directly or indirectly, a  beneficial owner  (within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder) of more than 9.9% of the shares of Common Stock outstanding at such time. Any delivery of shares of Common Stock  
  
   49 

upon a purported conversion of Series L Preferred Stock shall be void and have no effect and such shares shall for all purposes continue to represent outstanding shares of Series L Preferred Stock to the extent (but only to the extent) that such delivery would result in the converting holder becoming the beneficial owner of more than 9.9% of the shares of Common Stock outstanding at such time. If any delivery of shares of Common Stock owed to a holder upon conversion of Series L Preferred Stock is not made, in whole or in part, as a result of this limitation, the Corporation s obligation to make such delivery shall not be extinguished and the Corporation shall deliver such shares as promptly as practicable after any such converting holder gives notice to the Corporation that such delivery would not result in it being the beneficial owner of more than 9.9% of the shares of Common Stock outstanding at such time. Notwithstanding anything in this paragraph to the contrary, these limitations on beneficial ownership shall not be applicable to or limit the number of shares of Series L Preferred Stock to be converted as a result of a mandatory conversion by the Corporation pursuant to Section 13(b). 
    
  Section 19.       Preemptive or Subscription Rights  .  The Holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall not have any preemptive or subscription rights. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY     has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Laurel A. Holschuh, its Secretary, this      30  th      day of December, 2008. 
    
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 

By:                       /s/ Barbara S. Brett                               
              Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President 
              and Assistant Treasurer 
   /s/ Laurel A. Holschuh             
  Laurel A. Holschuh, Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on December 30, 2008.] 

50 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  2010 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
  (Without Par Value) 
  ___________________________________ 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000 and February 24, 2009, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on March 23, 2010, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
   1.         On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to: 
    
  RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate. 
    
   2.         Pursuant to resolutions adopted on February 24, 2009, the Board designated John G. Stumpf as the sole member of the ESOP Committee, effective April 29, 2009. 
    
  3.         On March 23, 2010, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolutions by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 

51 

RESOLVED that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are hereby fixed as follows: 
    
  2010 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
    
   1.    Designation and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue  .  
    
   (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for herein shall be  2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2010 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock is 1,000,000, based on an offering price for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,080.00 per share.  Each share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share.  The number of authorized shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock. 
    
   (b)  Shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer.  Shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates representing shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions.  In the case of uncertificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account.  The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2010 ESOP  
  
   52 

Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof. 
   2.    Voting Rights  .  No shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows: 
    
   (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders.  At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such holders of such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned. 
    
   (b)  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this resolution. 
    
   (c)  So long as any shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such  
  
   53 

outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following: 
    
   (i)  the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or 
    
   (ii)  the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations designating shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers. 
    
   (d)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
    
   3.             Dividends  .  (a)(i)  Holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $95.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3. 
    
   (ii)  The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2011 and on each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2019, as follows:  
    
   (1)  If the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $100.00 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).  
    
   (2)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $105.00 per share (the  Second Adjusted Dividend ). 
    
   (3)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in  
  
   54 

the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend. 
                       
                   Dividend Adjustment Table 

(4)  As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above, if on November 30, 2011, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $100.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $100.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2012.  If on November 30, 2012, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $60.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $105.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $105.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2013.  If on November 30, 2013, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $95.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $95.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2014. 
    
   (5)  For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi). 
    
   (iii)  If one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted. 
    
   (iv)  Dividends payable on shares of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing June 1, 2010.  Dividends on shares of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor less than 15  
  
   55 

days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof.  The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 
    
   (b)(i)  No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other.  Holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears. 
    
   (ii)  So long as any shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods. 
    
   4.    Conversion  .  Shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows: 
    
   (a)  Each share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully  
  
   56 

paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4. 
    
   (b)  Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4. 
    
   (c)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
   (i)  The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof). 
    
   (ii)  A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open. 
    
   (iii)  (A)  For purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date. 
    
   (B)  For purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4. 
    
   (C)  For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock. 
    
  Each share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.  
    
   (iv)  The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock  
  
   57 

Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof. 
   (v)   Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designations or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
    
   (vi)   Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day. 
   (d)  In connection with any conversion of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, which notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4.  Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request. 
    
   (e)  Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4,  the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion.  If there shall have been  
  
   58 

surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted. 
   (f)  The issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date.  The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares. 
    
   (g)  The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law. 
    
   (h)  The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding. 
    
   (i)  The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery. 
    
   (j)  The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid. 
    
   5.    Redemption At the Option of the Company  .  (a)  The 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per  
  
   59 

share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5.  From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5. 
    
   (b)  Unless otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of certificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined.  The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so require and the notice shall so state). 
    
   (c)  The Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon redemption of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed. 
    
   (d)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
   (i)   Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined. 

60 

(ii)   Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about March 26, 2010 between the Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto). 
    
   6.    Consolidation, Merger, etc.    (a)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following: 
    
   (1)  After such transaction each share of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction. 
   (2)  The Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid. 
    
   (b)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of  
  
   61 

qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares. 
    
   (c)  In the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated.  No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction. 
    
   (d)  In the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any  
  
   62 

successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period. 
    
   For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
   (i)   Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act. 
    
   (ii)  A  Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company. 
    
   7.    Liquidation Rights  .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution. 
    
   (b)  Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger or consolidation of the Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7. 
    
   (c)  After the payment to the holders of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company. 
    
   (d)  In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up. 
     
   (e)  Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior  
  
   63 

to the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein. 
    
   8.    Ranking  .  For the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes of the Company shall be deemed to rank: 
    
   (a)  prior to the shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock; 
    
   (b)  on a parity with shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock; and 
    
   (c)  junior to shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such series or class or classes. 
    
   9.    Priority of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock  .  The shares of 2010 ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2001 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2007 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and its 2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.  

64 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by John G. Stumpf, its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, whereby such President and Chief Executive Officer affirms, under penalties of perjury, that this Certificate of Designations is the act and deed of the Company and that the facts stated herein are true, this      23  rd      day of March, 2010. 
    
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
      
  By             /s/ John G. Stumpf                                   
  John G. Stumpf 
                  Chairman, President and 
                  Chief Executive Officer 
    Attest: 
    
   /s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                                     
  Jeannine E. Zahn 
  Assistant Secretary 
    
  [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on March 23, 2010.] 
  
   65 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  _______________ 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT 
  OF   
  CERTIFICATE OF     INCORPORATION  
  _______________ 
    
  Pursuant to Section 242 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
  _______________ 
    
  Laurel A. Holschuh, Senior Vice President, and Rachelle M. Graham, Assistant Secretary, of Wells Fargo   Company, a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), do hereby certify: 
    
  FIRST:  That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company duly held on February 23, 2010, a resolution was duly adopted setting forth a proposed amendment of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, declaring the advisability of the amendment, and directing that the amendment be presented to stockholders of the Company for their consideration at the next annual meeting of the stockholders to be held on April 27, 2010.  The resolution setting forth the proposed amendment is as follows: 
    
  RESOLVED that an amendment to ARTICLE FOURTH of the Company s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, to increase the authorized common stock to 9,000,000,000 shares is hereby proposed and declared advisable, and the following amendment to the first sentence of ARTICLE FOURTH is hereby directed to be presented to the stockholders of the Company for consideration at the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on April 27, 2010: 
    
   FOURTH:  The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the corporation shall have authority to issue is Nine Billion Twenty-Four Million (9,024,000,000), consisting of Twenty Million (20,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock without par value, Four Million (4,000,000) shares of Preference Stock without par value, and Nine Billion (9,000,000,000) shares of Common Stock of the par value of $1 2/3 per share. 
    
   SECOND:  That at such annual meeting of stockholders, duly called and held upon notice in accordance with Section 222 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which notice set forth in full the proposed amendment, a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company were voted in favor of the amendment. 
    
   THIRD:  That the amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. 

66 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WELLS FARGO   COMPANY has caused this Certificate to be signed by Laurel A. Holschuh, its Senior Vice President, and attested by Rachelle M. Graham, its Assistant Secretary, this      29  th      day of April, 2010. 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY: 
    
  (Corporate Seal) 
    
  By:                 /s/ Laurel A. Holschuh                 
  Senior Vice President 

ATTEST: 

By:             /s/ Rachelle M. Graham        
  Assistant Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on April 29, 2010.] 

67 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  2011 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
  (Without Par Value) 
  ___________________________________ 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000 and February 24, 2009, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on March 15, 2011, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
   1.         On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to: 
    
  RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate. 
    
   2.         Pursuant to resolutions adopted on February 24, 2009, the Board designated John G. Stumpf as the sole member of the ESOP Committee, effective April 29, 2009. 
    
  3.         On March 15, 2011, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolutions by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 

68 

RESOLVED that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are hereby fixed as follows: 
    
  2011 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
    
   1.    Designation and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue  .  
    
   (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for herein shall be  2011 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2011 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock is 1,200,000, based on an offering price for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,085.00 per share.  Each share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share.  The number of authorized shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock. 
    
   (b)  Shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer.  Shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates representing shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions.  In the case of uncertificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account.  The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2011 ESOP  
  
   69 

Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof. 
    
   2.    Voting Rights  .  No shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows: 
    
   (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders.  At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such holders of such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned. 
    
   (b)  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this resolution. 
    
   (c)  So long as any shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such  
  
   70 

outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following: 
    
   (i)  the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or 
    
   (ii)  the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations designating shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers. 
    
   (d)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
    
   3.             Dividends  .  (a)(i)  Holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $90.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3. 
    
   (ii)  The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2012 and on each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2020, as follows:  
    
   (1)  If the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $95.00 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).  
    
   (2)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $100.00 per share (the  Second Adjusted Dividend ). 
    
   (3)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in  
  
   71 

the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend. 
    
  28)                    Dividend Adjustment Table 

(4)  As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above, if on November 30, 2012, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $95.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $95.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2013.  If on November 30, 2013, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $60.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $100.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $100.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2014.  If on November 30, 2014, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $90.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $90.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2015. 
    
   (5)  For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi). 
    
   (iii)  If one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted. 
    
   (iv)  Dividends payable on shares of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing June 1, 2011.  Dividends on shares of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they  
  
   72 

appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof.  The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 
    
   (b)(i)  No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends 
  with 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other.  Holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears. 
    
   (ii)  So long as any shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods. 
    
   4.    Conversion  .  Shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows: 

73 

(a)  Each share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4. 
    
   (b)  Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4. 
    
   (c)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
   (i)  The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof). 
    
   (ii)  A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open. 
    
   (iii)  (A)  For purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date. 
    
   (B)  For purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4. 
    
   (C)  For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock. 
    
  Each share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.  
    
   (iv)  The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall  
  
   74 

mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof. 
    
   (v)   Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designations or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
    
   (vi)   Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day. 
    
   (d)  In connection with any conversion of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, which notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4.  Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request. 
    
   (e)  Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4,  the Company shall issue and send by hand  
  
   75 

delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted. 
    
   (f)  The issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date.  The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares. 
    
   (g)  The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law. 
    
   (h)  The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding. 
    
   (i)  The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery. 
    
   (j)  The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid. 
  
   76 

5.    Redemption At the Option of the Company  .  (a)  The 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5.  From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5. 
    
   (b)  Unless otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of certificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined.  The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so require and the notice shall so state). 
    
   (c)  The Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon redemption of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed. 
    
   (d)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 

77 

(i)   Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined. 
    
   (ii)   Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2011 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about March 18, 2011 between the Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto). 
    
   6.    Consolidation, Merger, etc.    (a)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following: 
    
   (1)  After such transaction each share of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction. 
    
   (2)  The Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid. 

78 

(b)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares. 
    
   (c)  In the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated.  No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction. 
    
   (d)  In the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii) 
  
   79 

(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period. 
    
   For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
   (i)   Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act. 
    
   (ii)  A  Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company. 
    
   7.    Liquidation Rights  .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution. 
    
   (b)  Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger or consolidation of the Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7. 
    
   (c)  After the payment to the holders of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company. 
    
   (d)  In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up. 

80 

(e)  Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein. 
    
   8.    Ranking  .  For the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes of the Company shall be deemed to rank: 
    
   (a)  prior to the shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock; 
    
   (b)  on a parity with shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock; and 
    
   (c)  junior to shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such series or class or classes. 
    
   9.    Priority of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock  .  The shares of 2011 ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2007 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and its 2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.  

81 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by John G. Stumpf, its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, whereby such President and Chief Executive Officer affirms, under penalties of perjury, that this Certificate of Designations is the act and deed of the Company and that the facts stated herein are true, this 17th day of March, 2011. 
     
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
    
  By             /s/ John G. Stumpf                            
  John G. Stumpf 
                 Chairman, President and 
                 Chief Executive Officer 

Attest: 
    
  /s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                                         
  Jeannine E. Zahn 
  Assistant Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on March 17, 2011.] 

82 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  2012 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
  (Without Par Value) 
  ___________________________________ 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorizes the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000 and February 24, 2009, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on January 9, 2012, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
   1.         On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to: 
    
  RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate. 
    
   2.         Pursuant to resolutions adopted on February 24, 2009, the Board designated John G. Stumpf as the sole member of the ESOP Committee, effective April 29, 2009. 
    
  3.         On January 9, 2012, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolutions by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 

83 

RESOLVED that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are hereby fixed as follows: 
    
  2012 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
    
   1.    Designation and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue  .  
    
   (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for herein shall be  2012 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2012 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock is 940,000, based on an offering price for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,094.00 per share.  Each share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share.  The number of authorized shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock. 
    
   (b)  Shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer.  Shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates representing shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions.  In the case of uncertificated 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account.  The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2012 ESOP  
  
   84 

Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof. 
    
   2.    Voting Rights  .  No shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows: 
    
   (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or on the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders.  At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such holders of such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Preferred Stock ranking on such a parity and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable) to elect members of the Board as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned. 
    
   (b)  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote for directors as herein provided, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders may choose a successor to fill such vacancy, which such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this resolution. 
    
   (c)  So long as any shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, by a vote of at least two-thirds of all such  
  
   85 

outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following: 
    
   (i)  the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or 
    
   (ii)  the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations designating shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers. 
    
   (d)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
    
   3.             Dividends  .  (a)(i)  Holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $100.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3. 
    
   (ii)  The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2013 and on each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2021, as follows:  
    
   (1)  If the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $105.00 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).  
    
   (2)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $110.00 per share (the  Second Adjusted Dividend ). 
    
   (3)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in  
  
   86 

the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend. 
  32)                       
  33)                    Dividend Adjustment Table 

(4)  As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above, if on November 30, 2013, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $30.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $105.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $105.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2014.  If on November 30, 2014, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $110.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $110.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2015.  If on November 30, 2015, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $30.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $100.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $100.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2016. 
    
   (5)  For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi). 
    
   (iii)  If one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted. 
    
   (iv)  Dividends payable on shares of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing March 1, 2012.  Dividends on shares of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor less than 15  
  
   87 

days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof.  The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 
    
   (b)(i)  No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other.  Holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears. 
    
   (ii)  So long as any shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods. 
    
   4.    Conversion  .  Shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows: 
    
   (a)  Each share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully  
  
   88 

paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4. 
    
   (b)  Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4. 
    
   (c)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
   (i)  The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof). 
    
   (ii)  A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open. 
    
   (iii)  (A)  For purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date. 
    
   (B)  For purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4. 
    
   (C)  For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock. 
    
  Each share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.  
    
   (iv)  The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock  
  
   89 

Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof. 
    
   (v)   Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designations or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
    
   (vi)   Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day. 
   (d)  In connection with any conversion of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, which notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4.  Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request. 
    
   (e)  Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4,  the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of  
  
   90 

which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted. 
    
   (f)  The issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date.  The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares. 
    
   (g)  The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law. 
    
   (h)  The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding. 
    
   (i)  The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery. 
    
   (j)  The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid. 
    
   5.    Redemption At the Option of the Company  .  (a)  The 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal  
  
   91 

to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5.  From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5. 
    
   (b)  Unless otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of certificated 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined.  The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so require and the notice shall so state). 
    
   (c)  The Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon redemption of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed. 
    
   (d)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
   (i)   Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined. 
    
   (ii)   Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the  
  
   92 

average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2012 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about January 12, 2012 between the Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto). 
    
   6.    Consolidation, Merger, etc.    (a)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following: 
    
   (1)  After such transaction each share of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction. 
    
   (2)  The Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid. 
    
   (b)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if  
  
   93 

applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares. 
    
   (c)  In the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated.  No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction. 
    
   (d)  In the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be  
  
   94 

withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period. 
    
   For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
   (i)   Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act. 
    
   (ii)  A  Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company. 
    
   7.    Liquidation Rights  .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution. 
    
   (b)  Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger or consolidation of the Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7. 
    
   (c)  After the payment to the holders of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company. 
    
   (d)  In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up. 
     
  (e)  Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and  
  
   95 

provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein. 
    
   8.    Ranking  .  For the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes of the Company shall be deemed to rank: 
    
   (a)  prior to the shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock; 
    
   (b)  on a parity with shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock; and 
    
   (c)  junior to shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such series or class or classes. 
    
   9.    Priority of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock  .  The shares of 2012 ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2007 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and its 2011 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.  

96 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by John G. Stumpf, its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, whereby such President and Chief Executive Officer affirms, under penalties of perjury, that this Certificate of Designations is the act and deed of the Company and that the facts stated herein are true, this 10th day of January, 2012. 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 

By             /s/ John G. Stumpf                                   
  John G. Stumpf 
                  Chairman, President and 
                  Chief Executive Officer 

Attest: 
    
  /s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                                         
  Jeannine E. Zahn 
  Assistant Secretary 
    
  [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on January 10, 2012.] 

97 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  _____________________ 
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 
  _____________________ 
  NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES N 
    
  (Without Par Value) 
  _____________________ 
   WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly adopted on August 14, 2012, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
   Resolved,     that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated January 27, 2009, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES 
    
                  Section 1.        Designation  .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series N, with no par value and a liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share  (the    Series N Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series N Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series N Preferred Stock except with respect to the date from which dividends may accrue. Series N Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
                  Section 2.        Number of Shares  .  The number of authorized shares of Series N Preferred Stock shall be 30,000.  Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in  
  
   98 

excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series N Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series N Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3.        Definitions  .  As used herein with respect to Series N Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York. 
    
     Certificate of Designation    means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series N Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time. 
    
   Common Stock   means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
    
     Depositary Company    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof. 
    
   Dividend Payment Date      has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
   Junior Stock    means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series N Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
     Liquidation Preference    has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof. 
    
     Nonpayment Event    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
    
     Parity Stock    means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the Series N Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 

99 

Preference Stock    means any and all series of preference stock, having no par value, of the Corporation.  
    
     Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series N Preferred Stock. 
    
     Preferred Stock Directors    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
    
     Regulatory Capital Treatment Event    means the Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment to, or change (including any announced prospective change) in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of Series N Preferred Stock; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of Series N Preferred Stock; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced after the initial issuance of any shares of Series N Preferred Stock, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of all shares of Series N Preferred Stock then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series N Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
    
     Series N Preferred Stock    has the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 
    
     Voting Parity Stock    means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series N Preferred Stock. 
                                                                                       
   Section 4.        Dividends. 
    
  (a)        Rate  .  Dividends on the Series N Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of the Series N Preferred Stock, payable quarterly in arrears on the 15th day of March, June, September and December     of each year     (commencing on December 15, 2012);     provided  ,     however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ).  A    Dividend Period    means the period from, and including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be the period from, and including, August 16, 2012 to, but excluding, December 15, 2012.  Dividends on each share of Series N Preferred Stock will accrue at a rate     per annum     equal to 5.20%.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series N Preferred Stock shall be the  
  
   100 

last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other date as determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. 
    
  (b)       Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series N Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series N Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series N Preferred Stock or any other series of authorized Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common Stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any shares of Series N Preferred Stock remain outstanding, 
    
  (1)                     no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock); 
    
  (2)                     no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan, (iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements)  
  
   101 

adopted before or after August 9, 2012, (viii) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock other than Common Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business); and 
    
  (3)                     no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to pro rata offers to purchase all, or a pro rata portion, of the Series N Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after August 9, 2012, (v) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business), unless, in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of the Series N Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside. 
    
  Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series N Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series N Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series N Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among the holders of shares of Series N Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar dividend rights.  
    
   Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available for such payment, and the shares of Series N Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 

102 

Section 5.        Liquidation Rights. 
    
  (a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series N Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the    Liquidation Preference   ).  The holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b)       Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series N Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series N Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be     pro rata     in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preference of Series N Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.  
    
  (c)        Residual Distributions  .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series N Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)       Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.        Redemption. 
    
  (a)        Optional Redemption  .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series N Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after September 15, 2017, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series N Preferred Stock  
  
   103 

shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption date without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares of Series N Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to September 15, 2017, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series N Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. 
    
  (b)       Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series N Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series N Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series N Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series N Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series N Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.  
    
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series N Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series N Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either     pro rata  from the holders of record of Series N Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series N Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series N Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d)       Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in  
  
   104 

trust for the     pro rata     benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the     pro rata     benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders  thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares. 
    
  Section 7.        Voting Rights. 
    
  (a)        General.      The holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by applicable law. 
    
  (b)       Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events.      Whenever dividends payable on any shares of Series N Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, at least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment Event   ), the holders of the outstanding Series N Preferred Stock, voting together as a class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the    Preferred Stock Directors   ) by a plurality of the votes cast;     provided     that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding Series N Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the Series N Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series N Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full dividends for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend  
  
   105 

Periods or their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series N Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Series N Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series N Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series N Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to this Section 7(b). 
    
  (c)     Other Voting Rights  .  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series N Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of Series N Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series N Preferred Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock ranking senior to the Series N Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the Bylaws that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series N Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series N Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification involving the Series N Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series N Preferred Stock will have no right to vote under this section 7(c)(iv) if in each case (a) the shares of Series N Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or  
  
   106 

exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (b) such shares of Series N Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series N Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;     provided, however  , that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized amount of or issuance of the Series N Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect 
  the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series N Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series N Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon. 
    
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series N Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a  class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock). 
    
  Each holder of the Series N Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any matter on which holders of the Series N Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written consent. 
    
  (1)                (d)       Changes after Provision for Redemption.      No vote or consent of the holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding Series N Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of redemption has been given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
    
  (e)        Procedures for Voting and Consents.     The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series N Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series N Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time. 
    
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  .  The holders of Series N Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series N Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 

107 

Section 9.        Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series N Preferred Stock which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 10.      No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series N Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 
    
  Section 11.      Additional Classes or Series of Stock  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of the holders of the Series N Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the holders of the Series N Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series N Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
   In Witness Whereof, Wells Fargo   Company     has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, this 14  th   day of August, 2012. 
    
                 Wells Fargo   Company 
      By  :  
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett 
        
    Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President 
  and Assistant Treasurer 

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                            
  Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary 
    
  [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on August 15, 2012.] 

108 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  _____________________ 
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 
  _____________________ 
  NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES O 
  (Without Par Value) 
  _____________________ 
    
   WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly adopted on November 16, 2012, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
   Resolved,     that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated January 27, 2009, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES 
    
                  Section 1.        Designation  .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series O, with no par value and a liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share  (the    Series O Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series O Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series O Preferred Stock except with respect to the date from which dividends may accrue. Series O Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 

109 

Section 2.        Number of Shares  .  The number of authorized shares of Series O Preferred Stock shall be 27,600.  Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series O Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series O Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3.        Definitions  .  As used herein with respect to Series O Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York. 
    
     Certificate of Designation    means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series O Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time. 
    
   Common Stock   means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
    
     Depositary Company    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof. 
    
   Dividend Payment Date      has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
   Junior Stock    means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series O Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
     Liquidation Preference    has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof. 
    
     Nonpayment Event    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
    
     Parity Stock    means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the Series O Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
  
   110 

Preference Stock    means any and all series of preference stock, having no par value, of the Corporation.  
    
     Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series O Preferred Stock. 
    
     Preferred Stock Directors    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
    
     Regulatory Capital Treatment Event    means the Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change (including any announced prospective change) in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective on or after November 13, 2012; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective on or after November 13, 2012; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced on or after November 13, 2012, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of all shares of Series O Preferred Stock then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series O Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
    
     Series O Preferred Stock    has the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 
    
  v)                                                                                                   Voting Parity Stock    means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series O Preferred Stock. 
    
  vi)                       Section 4.        Dividends. 
  (a)        Rate  .  Dividends on the Series O Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of the Series O Preferred Stock, payable quarterly in arrears on the 15th day of March, June, September and December     of each year     (commencing on March 15, 2013);     provided  ,     however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ).  A    Dividend Period    means the period from, and including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be the period from, and including, November 20, 2012 to, but excluding, March 15, 2013.  Dividends on each share of Series O Preferred Stock will accrue at a rate     per annum     equal to 5.125%.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series O Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other date as determined by the Corporation s Board of  
  
   111 

Directors.  The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. 
    
  (b)       Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series O Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series O Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series O Preferred Stock or any other series of authorized Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common Stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any shares of Series O Preferred Stock remain outstanding, 
    
  (1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock); 
    
  (2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan, (iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after November 13, 2012, (viii) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such  
  
   112 

Junior Stock other than Common Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business); and 
    
  (3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to     pro rata     offers to purchase all, or a     pro rata  portion, of the Series O Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after November 13, 2012, (v) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business), unless, in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of the Series O Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside. 
    
   Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series O Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series O Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series O Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among the holders of shares of Series O Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar dividend rights.  
    
   Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available for such payment, and the shares of Series O Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 
    
  Section 5.        Liquidation Rights. 

113 

(a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series O Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the    Liquidation Preference   ).  The holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b)       Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series O Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series O Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be     pro rata     in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preference of Series O Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.  
    
  (c)        Residual Distributions  .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series O Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)       Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.        Redemption. 
    
  (a)        Optional Redemption  .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series O Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after December 15, 2017, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series O Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption date without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. 
  
   114 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares of Series O Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to December 15, 2017, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series O Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. 
    
  (b)       Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series O Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series O Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series O Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series O Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series O Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.  
    
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series O Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series O Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either     pro rata  from the holders of record of Series O Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series O Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series O Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d)       Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the     pro rata     benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company  
  
   115 

selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the     pro rata  benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders  thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares. 
    
  Section 7.        Voting Rights. 
    
  (a)        General.      The holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by applicable law. 
    
  (b)       Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events.      Whenever dividends payable on any shares of Series O Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, at least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment Event   ), the holders of the outstanding Series O Preferred Stock, voting together as a class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the    Preferred Stock Directors   ) by a plurality of the votes cast;     provided     that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding Series O Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the Series O Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series O Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full dividends for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series O Preferred Stock  
  
   116 

shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Series O Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series O Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series O Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to this Section 7(b). 
    
  (c)     Other Voting Rights  .  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series O Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of Series O Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series O Preferred Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock ranking senior to the Series O Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the Bylaws that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series O Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series O Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification involving the Series O Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series O Preferred Stock will have no right to vote under this section 7(c)(iv) if in each case (a) the shares of Series O Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and  
  
   117 

(b) such shares of Series O Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series O Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;     provided, however  , that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized amount of or issuance of the Series O Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series O Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series O Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon. 
    
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series O Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a  class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock). 
    
  Each holder of the Series O Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any matter on which holders of the Series O Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written consent. 
    
  (1)                (d)       Changes after Provision for Redemption.      No vote or consent of the holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding Series O Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of redemption has been given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
    
  (e)        Procedures for Voting and Consents.     The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series O Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series O Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time. 
    
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  .  The holders of Series O Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series O Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 

118 

Section 9.        Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series O Preferred Stock which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 10.      No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series O Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 
    
  Section 11.      Additional Classes or Series of Stock  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of the holders of the Series O Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the holders of the Series O Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series O Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  DMS.US.51005459.05 

119 

In Witness Whereof, Wells Fargo   Company     has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, this 19  th   day of November, 2012. 
    
                 Wells Fargo   Company 

By  :  
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett 
        
    Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President 
  and Assistant Treasurer 

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                           
  Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on November 19, 2012.] 

120 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  2013 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
  (Without Par Value) 
  ___________________________________ 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000, January 27, 2009, and February 24, 2009, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on January 7, 2013, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
   1.         On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolution (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to: 
    
  RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate. 

121 

2.         On January 27, 2009, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  January 2009 Resolutions ) amending the ESOP Board Resolutions to allow the ESOP Committee to establish the voting rights of any series of ESOP Preferred Stock: 
    
  RESOLVED that the resolution set forth in the [ESOP Board Resolutions] under the caption  Voting Rights of ESOP Preferred Stock  is hereby deleted in its entirety. 
    
  RESOLVED that the [ESOP Board Resolutions] are hereby further amended to delete  Appendix A   Voting Rights  in its entirety. 
    
  3.         Pursuant to resolutions adopted on February 24, 2009, the Board designated John G. Stumpf as the sole member of the ESOP Committee, effective April 29, 2009. 
    
  4.         On January 7, 2013, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions as amended by the January 2009 Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolution by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
   RESOLVED that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are hereby fixed as follows: 
    
  2013 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
    
   1.    Designation and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue  .  
    
   (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for herein shall be  2013 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2013 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock is 1,200,000, based on an offering price for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,090.00 per share.  Each share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share.  The number of authorized shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock. 

122 

(b)  Shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer.  Shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates representing shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions.  In the case of uncertificated 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account.  The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof. 
    
   2.    Voting Rights  .  No shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows: 
    
   (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock, as defined in paragraph (e) of this Section 2,whose voting rights are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company s Board at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the  Preferred Stock Directors ) by a plurality of the votes cast; provided that the Board of Directors  
  
   123 

shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such holders of such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable) to elect Preferred Stock Directors as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned. 
    
   (b)  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2(b). 
    
   (c)  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least two-thirds in voting power of all such outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and such series of Voting Parity Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: 

124 

(i)  the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on the Company s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or 
    
   (ii)  the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designation designating shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers. 
    
   (d)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
    
   (e)  As used in this Section 2,  Voting Parity Stock  means any other class or series of stock of the Company now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company and having similar voting rights as the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock. 
    
   3.             Dividends  .  (a)(i)  Holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $85.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3. 
    
   (ii)  The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2014 and on each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2021, as follows:  
    
   (1)  If the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock  
  
   125 

will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $90.00 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).  
    
   (2)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $95.00 per share (the  Second Adjusted Dividend ). 
    
   (3)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend. 
    
  Dividend Adjustment Table 

(4)  As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above, if on November 30, 2014, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $37.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $90.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $90.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2015.  If on November 30, 2015, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $45.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $95.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $95.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2016.  If on November 30, 2016, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $40.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $85.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $85.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2017. 
    
   (5)  For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted  
  
   126 

Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi). 
    
   (iii)  If one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted. 
    
   (iv)  Dividends payable on shares of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing March 1, 2013.  Dividends on shares of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof.  The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 
    
   (b)(i)  No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other.  Holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears. 
    
   (ii)  So long as any shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2013  
  
   127 

ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods. 
    
   4.    Conversion  .  Shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows: 
    
   (a)  Each share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4. 
    
   (b)  Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4. 
    
   (c)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
   (i)  The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof). 
    
   (ii)  A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open. 
  
   128 

(iii)  (A)  For purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date. 
    
   (B)  For purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4. 
    
   (C)  For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock. 
    
  Each share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.  
    
   (iv)  The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof. 
    
   (v)   Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 

129 

(vi)   Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day. 
    
   (d)  In connection with any conversion of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, which Conversion Notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4.  Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request. 
    
   (e)  Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4,  the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted. 
    
   (f)  The issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2013 ESOP  
  
   130 

Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and after the effective date of a conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date.  The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares. 
    
   (g)  The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law. 
    
   (h)  The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding. 
    
   (i)  The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery. 
    
   (j)  The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid. 
    
   5.    Redemption At the Option of the Company  .  (a)  The 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable out of assets legally available therefor, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred  
  
   131 

Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5.  From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5. 
    
   (b)  Unless otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of certificated 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined.  The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so require and the notice shall so state). 
    
   (c)  The Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon redemption of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed. 
  
   132 

(d)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
   (i)   Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined. 
    
   (ii)   Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2013 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about January 10, 2013 between the Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto). 
    
   6.    Consolidation, Merger, etc.    (a)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the  
  
   133 

qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following: 
    
   (1)  After such transaction each share of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction. 
    
   (2)  The Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid. 
    
   (b)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares. 
    
   (c)  In the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this  
  
   134 

Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated.  No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction. 
    
   (d)  In the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period. 
    
   For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
   (i)   Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act. 
    
   (ii)  A  Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company. 
    
   7.    Liquidation Rights  .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before  
  
   135 

any payment or distribution shall be made on or set aside for the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on parity with or senior to the 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution. 
    
   (b)  Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger, consolidation or other business combination of the Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger, consolidation or other business combination of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7. 
    
   (c)  After the payment to the holders of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company. 
    
   (d)  In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up. 
     
  (e)  Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on parity with or prior to the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein. 
    
   8.    Ranking  .  For the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes of the Company shall be deemed to rank: 
    
   (a)  prior to the shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or  
  
   136 

winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock; 
    
   (b)  on a parity with shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock; and 
    
   (c)  junior to shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such series or class or classes. 
    
   9.    Priority of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock  .  The shares of 2013 ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2007 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2011 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, and its 2012 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.  

137 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by John G. Stumpf, its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, on this 9th day of January, 2013. 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 

By             /s/ John G. Stumpf                           
  John G. Stumpf 
  Chairman, President and 
  Chief Executive Officer 

Attest: 
    
  /s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                                        
  Jeannine E. Zahn 
  Assistant Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on January 9, 2013.] 

138 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  _____________________ 
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 
  _____________________ 
  NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES P 
  (Without Par Value) 
  _____________________ 
    
   WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly adopted on March 19, 2013, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
   Resolved,     that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated January 27, 2009, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES 
    
                  Section 1.        Designation  .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series P, with no par value and a liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share  (the    Series P Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series P Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series P Preferred Stock except with respect to the date from which dividends may accrue. Series P Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 

139 

Section 2.        Number of Shares  .  The number of authorized shares of Series P Preferred Stock shall be 26,400.  Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series P Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series P Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3.        Definitions  .  As used herein with respect to Series P Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York. 
    
     Certificate of Designation    means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series P Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time. 
    
   Common Stock   means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
    
     Depositary Company    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof. 
    
      Dividend Payment Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
   Junior Stock    means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series P Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
     Liquidation Preference    has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof. 
    
     Nonpayment Event    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
    
     Parity Stock    means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the Series P Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
  
   140 

Preference Stock    means any and all series of preference stock, having no par value, of the Corporation.  
    
     Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series P Preferred Stock. 
    
     Preferred Stock Directors    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
    
     Regulatory Capital Treatment Event    means the Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change (including any announced prospective change) in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective on or after March 15, 2013; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective on or after March 15, 2013; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced on or after March 15, 2013, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of all shares of Series P Preferred Stock then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series P Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
    
     Series P Preferred Stock    has the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 
    
     Voting Parity Stock    means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series P Preferred Stock. 
    
                  Section 4.        Dividends. 
    
  (a)        Rate  .  Dividends on the Series P Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of Series P Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of the Series P Preferred Stock, payable quarterly in arrears on the 15th day of March, June, September and December     of each year     (commencing on June 15, 2013);     provided  ,     however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ).  A    Dividend Period    means the period from, and including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be the period from, and including, March 22, 2013 to, but excluding, June 15, 2013.  Dividends on each share of Series P Preferred Stock will accrue at a rate     per annum     equal to 5.25%.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series P Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls  
  
   141 

or such other date as determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. 
    
  (b)       Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series P Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series P Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series P Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series P Preferred Stock or any other series of authorized Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common Stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any shares of Series P Preferred Stock remain outstanding, 
    
  (1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock); 
    
  (2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan, (iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before  
  
   142 

or after March 15, 2013, (viii) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock other than Common Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business); and 
    
  (3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to     pro rata     offers to purchase all, or a     pro rata  portion, of the Series P Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after March 15, 2013, (v) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business), unless, in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of the Series P Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside. 
    
   Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series P Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series P Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series P Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among the holders of shares of Series P Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar dividend rights.  
    
   Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available for such payment, and the shares of Series P Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 
  
   143 

Section 5.        Liquidation Rights. 
    
  (a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series P Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series P Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the    Liquidation Preference   ).  The holders of Series P Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b)       Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series P Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series P Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be     pro rata     in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preference of Series P Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.  
    
  (c)        Residual Distributions  .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series P Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)       Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.        Redemption. 
    
  (a)        Optional Redemption  .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series P Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after June 15, 2018, upon notice given as provided in  
  
   144 

Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series P Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption date without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares of Series P Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to June 15, 2018, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series P Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. 
    
  (b)       Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series P Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series P Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series P Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series P Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series P Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.  
    
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series P Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series P Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either     pro rata  from the holders of record of Series P Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series P Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series P Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d)       Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption  
  
   145 

have been irrevocably set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the     pro rata     benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the     pro rata     benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders  thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares. 
    
  Section 7.        Voting Rights. 
    
  (a)        General.      The holders of Series P Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by applicable law. 
    
  (b)       Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events.      Whenever dividends payable on any shares of Series P Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, at least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment Event   ), the holders of the outstanding Series P Preferred Stock, voting together as a class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the    Preferred Stock Directors   ) by a plurality of the votes cast;     provided     that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding Series P Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the Series P Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series P Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock Directors shall continue until such time as  
  
   146 

the Corporation has paid in full dividends for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series P Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Series P Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series P Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series P Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to this Section 7(b). 
    
  (c)     Other Voting Rights  .  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series P Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of Series P Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series P Preferred Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock ranking senior to the Series P Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the Bylaws that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series P Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series P Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification involving the Series P Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series P Preferred Stock will have no right to vote under this section 7(c)(iv) if in each case (a) the shares of Series P Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with  
  
   147 

respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (b) such shares of Series P Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series P Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;     provided, however  , that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized amount of or issuance of the Series P Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series P Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series P Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon. 
    
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series P Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock). 
    
  Each holder of the Series P Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any matter on which holders of the Series P Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written consent. 
    
  (d)       Changes after Provision for Redemption  .  No vote or consent of the holders of Series P Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding Series P Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of redemption has been given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
    
  (e)        Procedures for Voting and Consents.     The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series P Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series P Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time. 
    
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  .  The holders of Series P Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series P Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
  
   148 

Section 9.        Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series P Preferred Stock which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 10.      No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series P Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 
    
  Section 11.      Additional Classes or Series of Stock  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of the holders of the Series P Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the holders of the Series P Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series P Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 

149 

In Witness Whereof, Wells Fargo   Company     has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, this 21  st   day of March, 2013. 
    
                 Wells Fargo   Company 

By: 
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett 
        
    Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President 
  and Assistant Treasurer 

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                            
  Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary 
    
  [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on March 21, 2013.] 

150 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  _____________________ 
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 
  _____________________ 
  5.85% FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL 
  CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES Q 
  (Without Par Value) 
  _____________________ 
    
   WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly adopted on July 19, 2013, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
   Resolved,     that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated January 27, 2009, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES 
    
                  Section 1.        Designation  .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated 5.85% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series Q, with no par value and a liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share (the    Series Q Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series Q Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series Q Preferred Stock except with respect to the date from which dividends may accrue. Series Q Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
  
   151 

Section 2.        Number of Shares  .  The number of authorized shares of Series Q Preferred Stock shall be 69,000.  Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series Q Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series Q Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3.        Definitions  .  As used herein with respect to Series Q Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means for dividends payable for the Fixed Rate Period (as defined below) any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York, and for dividends payable for the Floating Rate Period (as defined below), it means any date that would be considered a Business Day during the Fixed Rate Period that is also a London Banking Day (as defined below). 
    
     Calculation Agent         means Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. or any other successor appointed by the Corporation, acting as Calculation Agent. 
    
     Certificate of Designation    means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series Q Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time. 
    
   Common Stock   means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
    
     Depositary Company    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof. 
    
     Designated LIBOR Page      means the display on Reuters, or any successor service, on page LIBOR01, or any other page as may replace that page on that service, for the purpose of displaying the London interbank rates for U.S. dollars. 
    
      Dividend Payment Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
     Fixed Rate Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Floating Rate Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
  
   152 

Junior Stock    means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series Q Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
     LIBOR Determination Date    means the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of the relevant Dividend Period. 
    
     Liquidation Preference    has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof. 
    
     London Banking Day    means any day on which commercial banks and foreign exchange markets settle payments in London. 
    
     Nonpayment Event    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
    
     Parity Stock    means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the Series Q Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
     Preference Stock    means any and all series of preference stock, having no par value, of the Corporation.  
    
     Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series Q Preferred Stock. 
    
     Preferred Stock Directors    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
    
     Regulatory Capital Treatment Event    means the Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change (including any announced prospective change) in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective on or after July 15, 2013; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective on or after July 15, 2013; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced on or after July 15, 2013, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of all shares of Series Q Preferred Stock then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series Q Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
    
     Series Q Preferred Stock    has the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 

153 

Three-month LIBOR    means, for any LIBOR Determination Date, the arithmetic mean of the offered rates for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the second London Banking Day immediately following that LIBOR Determination Date that appear on the Designated LIBOR Page as of 11:00 a.m., London time, on that LIBOR Determination Date, if at least two offered rates appear on the Designated LIBOR Page, provided that if the specified Designated LIBOR Page by its terms provides only for a single rate, that single rate will be used.  If (i) fewer than two offered rates appear or (ii) no rate appears and the Designated LIBOR Page by its terms provides only for a single rate, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of each of four major banks in the London interbank market, as selected by the Calculation Agent, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the second London Banking Day immediately following that LIBOR Determination Date to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that LIBOR Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time.  If at least two quotations are provided, Three-month LIBOR determined on that LIBOR Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations.  If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-month LIBOR will be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on that LIBOR Determination Date by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time.  If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, Three-month LIBOR for that LIBOR Determination Date will remain Three-month LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period or, in the case of the Dividend Period beginning September 15, 2023, 5.85%.  All percentages used in or resulting from any calculation of Three-month LIBOR will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentages point, with .000005% rounded up to .00001%.  The determination of Three-month LIBOR for each relevant Dividend Period by the Calculation Agent will (in the absence of manifest error) be final and binding. 
    
     Voting Parity Stock    means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series Q Preferred Stock. 
    
                  Section 4.        Dividends. 
    
  (a)        Rate  .  Dividends on the Series Q Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of Series Q Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of the Series Q Preferred Stock, payable quarterly in arrears on the 15  th   day of March, June, September and December, commencing September 15, 2013.  From July 22, 2013 to, but excluding, September 15, 2023 (the    Fixed Rate Period   ), dividends will accrue at an annual rate of 5.85%, and from, and including, September 15, 2023 (the    Floating Rate Period   ), dividends will accrue at an annual rate equal to Three-month LIBOR plus 3.09%.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any date on or prior to September 15, 2023 on which dividends otherwise would be payable is not a Business Day, then  
  
   154 

payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay, and if any date after September 15, 2023 on which dividends otherwise would be payable is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding Business Day unless that day falls in the next calendar month, in which case payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be the immediately preceding Business Day, and dividends will accrue to the actual payment date (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ).  A    Dividend Period    means the period from, and including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be the period from, and including, July 22, 2013 to, but excluding, September 15, 2013.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series Q Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other date as determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  The amount of dividends payable for the Fixed Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  The amount of dividends payable for the Floating Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed.  Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward.  The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends payable for the Floating Rate Period, will be maintained on file at the Calculation Agent s principal offices. 
    
  (b)       Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series Q Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series Q Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series Q Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series Q Preferred Stock or any other series of authorized Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common Stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any shares of Series Q Preferred Stock remain outstanding, 
    
  (1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock); 

155 

(2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan, (iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after July 15, 2013, (viii) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock other than Common Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business); and 
    
  (3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to     pro rata     offers to purchase all, or a     pro rata  portion, of the Series Q Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after July 15, 2013, (v) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business), unless, in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all  
  
   156 

outstanding shares of the Series Q Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside. 
    
   Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series Q Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series Q Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series Q Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among the holders of shares of Series Q Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar dividend rights.  
    
   Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available for such payment, and the shares of Series Q Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 
    
  Section 5.        Liquidation Rights. 
    
  (a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series Q Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series Q Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the    Liquidation Preference   ).  The holders of Series Q Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b)       Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series Q Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series Q Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be     pro rata     in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preference of Series Q Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.  
    
  (c)        Residual Distributions  .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series Q Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the  
  
   157 

holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)       Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.        Redemption. 
    
  (a)        Optional Redemption  .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series Q Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after September 15, 2023, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series Q Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption date without accumulation     of any undeclared dividends. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares of Series Q Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to September 15, 2023, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series Q Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. 
    
  (b)       Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series Q Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series Q Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series Q Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series Q Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, if  
  
   158 

applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series Q Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.  
    
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series Q Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series Q Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either     pro rata  from the holders of record of Series Q Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series Q Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series Q Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d)       Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the     pro rata     benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the     pro rata     benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders  thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares. 
    
  Section 7.        Voting Rights. 
    
  (a)        General.      The holders of Series Q Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by applicable law. 

159 

(b)       Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events.      Whenever dividends payable on any shares of Series Q Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, at least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment Event   ), the holders of the outstanding Series Q Preferred Stock, voting together as a class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the    Preferred Stock Directors   ) by a plurality of the votes cast;     provided     that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding Series Q Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the Series Q Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series Q Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full dividends for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series Q Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Series Q Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series Q Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series Q Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to this Section 7(b). 
    
  (c)     Other Voting Rights  .  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series Q Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of Series Q  
  
   160 

Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series Q Preferred Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock ranking senior to the Series Q Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the Bylaws that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series Q Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series Q Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification involving the Series Q Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series Q Preferred Stock will have no right to vote under this section 7(c)(iv) if in each case (a) the shares of Series Q Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (b) such shares of Series Q Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series Q Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;     provided, however  , that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized amount of or issuance of the Series Q Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series Q Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series Q Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon. 
    
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series Q Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock). 
    
  Each holder of the Series Q Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any matter on which holders of the Series Q Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written consent. 
  
   161 

(d)       Changes after Provision for Redemption  .  No vote or consent of the holders of Series Q Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding Series Q Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of redemption has been given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
    
  (e)        Procedures for Voting and Consents.     The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series Q Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series Q Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time. 
    
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  .  The holders of Series Q Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series Q Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9.        Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series Q Preferred Stock which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 10.      No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series Q Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 
    
  Section 11.      Additional Classes or Series of Stock  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of the holders of the Series Q Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the holders of the Series Q Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series Q Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 

162 

In Witness Whereof, Wells Fargo   Company     has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, this 19th day of July, 2013. 
    
                 Wells Fargo   Company 

By: 
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett 
        
    Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President and 
  Assistant Treasurer 

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                            
  Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on July 19, 2013.] 

163 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  _____________________ 
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 
  _____________________ 
  6.625% FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL 
  CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES R 
  (Without Par Value) 
  _____________________ 
    
   WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly adopted on December 11, 2013, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
   Resolved,     that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated January 27, 2009, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES 
    
                  Section 1.        Designation  .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated 6.625% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series R, with no par value and a liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share (the    Series R Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series R Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series R Preferred Stock except with respect to the date from which dividends may accrue. Series R Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 

164 

Section 2.        Number of Shares  .  The number of authorized shares of Series R Preferred Stock shall be 34,500.  Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series R Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series R Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3.        Definitions  .  As used herein with respect to Series R Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means for dividends payable for the Fixed Rate Period (as defined below) any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York, and for dividends payable for the Floating Rate Period (as defined below), it means any date that would be considered a Business Day during the Fixed Rate Period that is also a London Banking Day (as defined below). 
    
     Calculation Agent         means Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. or any other successor appointed by the Corporation, acting as Calculation Agent. 
    
     Certificate of Designation    means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series R Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time. 
    
   Common Stock   means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
    
     Depositary Company    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof. 
    
     Designated LIBOR Page      means the display on Reuters, or any successor service, on page LIBOR01, or any other page as may replace that page on that service, for the purpose of displaying the London interbank rates for U.S. dollars. 
    
      Dividend Payment Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
     Fixed Rate Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Floating Rate Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 

165 

Junior Stock    means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series R Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
     LIBOR Determination Date    means the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of the relevant Dividend Period. 
    
     Liquidation Preference    has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof. 
    
     London Banking Day    means any day on which commercial banks and foreign exchange markets settle payments in London. 
    
     Nonpayment Event    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
    
     Parity Stock    means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the Series R Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
     Preference Stock    means any and all series of preference stock, having no par value, of the Corporation.  
    
     Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series R Preferred Stock. 
    
     Preferred Stock Directors    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
    
     Regulatory Capital Treatment Event    means the Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change (including any announced prospective change) in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective on or after December 11, 2013; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective on or after December 11, 2013; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced on or after December 11, 2013, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of all shares of Series R Preferred Stock then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series R Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
    
     Series R Preferred Stock    has the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 

166 

Three-month LIBOR    means, for any LIBOR Determination Date, the arithmetic mean of the offered rates for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the second London Banking Day immediately following that LIBOR Determination Date that appear on the Designated LIBOR Page as of 11:00 a.m., London time, on that LIBOR Determination Date, if at least two offered rates appear on the Designated LIBOR Page, provided that if the specified Designated LIBOR Page by its terms provides only for a single rate, that single rate will be used.  If (i) fewer than two offered rates appear or (ii) no rate appears and the Designated LIBOR Page by its terms provides only for a single rate, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of each of four major banks in the London interbank market, as selected by the Calculation Agent, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the second London Banking Day immediately following that LIBOR Determination Date to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that LIBOR Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time.  If at least two quotations are provided, Three-month LIBOR determined on that LIBOR Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations.  If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-month LIBOR will be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on that LIBOR Determination Date by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time.  If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, Three-month LIBOR for that LIBOR Determination Date will remain Three-month LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period or, in the case of the Dividend Period beginning March 15, 2024, 6.625%.  All percentages used in or resulting from any calculation of Three-month LIBOR will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentages point, with .000005% rounded up to .00001%.  The determination of Three-month LIBOR for each relevant Dividend Period by the Calculation Agent will (in the absence of manifest error) be final and binding. 
    
     Voting Parity Stock    means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series R Preferred Stock. 
    
                  Section 4.        Dividends. 
    
  (a)        Rate  .  Dividends on the Series R Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of Series R Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of the Series R Preferred Stock, payable quarterly in arrears on the 15  th   day of March, June, September and December, commencing March 15, 2014,   From December 18, 2013 to, but excluding, March 15, 2024 (the    Fixed Rate Period   ), dividends will accrue at an annual rate of 6.625%, and from, and including, March 15, 2024 (the    Floating Rate Period   ), dividends will accrue at an annual rate equal to Three-month LIBOR plus 3.69%.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any date on or prior to March 15, 2024 on which dividends otherwise would be payable is not a Business Day, then payment of any  
  
   167 

dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay, and if any date after March 15, 2024 on which dividends otherwise would be payable is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding Business Day unless that day falls in the next calendar month, in which case payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be the immediately preceding Business Day, and dividends will accrue to the actual payment date (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ).  A    Dividend Period    means the period from, and including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be the period from, and including, December 18, 2013 to, but excluding, March 15, 2014.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series R Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other date as determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  The amount of dividends payable for the Fixed Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  The amount of dividends payable for the Floating Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed.  Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half 
  cent being rounded upward.  The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends payable for the Floating Rate Period, will be maintained on file at the Calculation Agent s principal offices. 
    
  (b)       Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series R Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series R Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series R Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series R Preferred Stock or any other series of authorized Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common Stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any shares of Series R Preferred Stock remain outstanding, 
    
  (1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock); 

168 

(2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan, (iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after December 11, 2013, (viii) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock other than Common Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business); and 
    
  (3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to     pro rata     offers to purchase all, or a     pro rata  portion, of the Series R Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after December 11, 2013, (v) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business), unless, in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all  
  
   169 

outstanding shares of the Series R Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside. 
    
   Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series R Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series R Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series R Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among the holders of shares of Series R Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar dividend rights.  
    
   Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available for such payment, and the shares of Series R Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 
    
  Section 5.        Liquidation Rights. 
    
  (a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series R Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series R Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the    Liquidation Preference   ).  The holders of Series R Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b)       Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series R Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series R Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be     pro rata     in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preference of Series R Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.  
    
  (c)        Residual Distributions  .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series R Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the  
  
   170 

holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)       Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.        Redemption. 
    
  (a)        Optional Redemption  .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series R Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after March 15, 2024, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series R Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption date without accumulation     of any undeclared dividends. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares of Series R Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to March 15, 2024, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series R Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. 
    
  (b)       Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series R Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series R Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series R Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series R Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, if  
  
   171 

applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series R Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.  
    
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series R Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series R Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either     pro rata  from the holders of record of Series R Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series R Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner consistent with the rules and policies of the New York Stock Exchange as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series R Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d)       Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the     pro rata     benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the     pro rata     benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders  thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares. 
    
  Section 7.        Voting Rights. 
    
  (a)        General.      The holders of Series R Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by applicable law. 

172 

(b)       Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events.      Whenever dividends payable on any shares of Series R Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, at least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment Event   ), the holders of the outstanding Series R Preferred Stock, voting together as a class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the    Preferred Stock Directors   ) by a plurality of the votes cast;     provided     that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding Series R Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the Series R Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series R Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full dividends for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series R Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Series R Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series R Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series R Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to this Section 7(b). 
    
  (c)     Other Voting Rights  .  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series R Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of Series R  
  
   173 

Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series R Preferred Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock ranking senior to the Series R Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the Bylaws that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series R Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series R Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification involving the Series R Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series R Preferred Stock will have no right to vote under this section 7(c)(iv) if in each case (a) the shares of Series R Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (b) such shares of Series R Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series R Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;     provided, however  , that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized amount of or issuance of the Series R Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series R Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series R Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon. 
    
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series R Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock). 
    
  Each holder of the Series R Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any matter on which holders of the Series R Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written consent. 
  
   174 

(d)       Changes after Provision for Redemption  .  No vote or consent of the holders of Series R Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding Series R Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of redemption has been given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
    
  (e)        Procedures for Voting and Consents.     The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series R Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series R Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time. 
    
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  .  The holders of Series R Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series R Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9.        Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series R Preferred Stock which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 10.      No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series R Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 
    
  Section 11.      Additional Classes or Series of Stock  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of the holders of the Series R Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the holders of the Series R Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series R Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  dms.us.53285252.04 

175 

In Witness Whereof, Wells Fargo   Company     has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, this 17  th   day of December, 2013. 
    
                 Wells Fargo   Company 

By: 
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett 
        
    Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President and 
  Assistant Treasurer 

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                                                    
  Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on December 17, 2013.] 
  
   176 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  2014 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
  (Without Par Value) 
  ___________________________________ 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000, January 27, 2009, and February 24, 2009, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on January 7, 2014, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
   1.         On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolution (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to: 
    
  RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate. 

177 

2.         On January 27, 2009, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  January 2009 Resolutions ) amending the ESOP Board Resolutions to allow the ESOP Committee to establish the voting rights of any series of ESOP Preferred Stock: 
    
  RESOLVED that the resolution set forth in the [ESOP Board Resolutions] under the caption  Voting Rights of ESOP Preferred Stock  is hereby deleted in its entirety. 
    
  RESOLVED that the [ESOP Board Resolutions] are hereby further amended to delete  Appendix A   Voting Rights  in its entirety. 
    
  3.         Pursuant to resolutions adopted on February 24, 2009, the Board designated John G. Stumpf as the sole member of the ESOP Committee, effective April 29, 2009. 
    
  4.         On January 7, 2014, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions as amended by the January 2009 Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolution by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
   RESOLVED that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are hereby fixed as follows: 
    
  2014 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
    
   1.    Designation and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue  .  
    
   (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for herein shall be  2014 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2014 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock is 1,217,000, based on an offering price for the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,089.00 per share.  Each share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share.  The number of authorized shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred 
  Stock, without designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock. 

178 

(b)  Shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer.  Shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates representing shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions.  In the case of uncertificated 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account.  The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof. 
    
   2.    Voting Rights  .  No shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows: 
    
   (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock, as defined in paragraph (e) of this Section 2,whose voting rights are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company s Board at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the  Preferred Stock Directors ) by a plurality of the votes cast; provided that the Board of Directors  
  
   179 

shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such holders of such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or 
  more series of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable) to elect Preferred Stock Directors as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned. 
    
   (b)  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2(b). 
    
   (c)  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least two-thirds in voting power of all such outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and such series of Voting Parity Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: 

180 

(i)  the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on the Company s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or 
    
   (ii)  the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designation designating shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers. 
    
   (d)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
    
   (e)  As used in this Section 2,  Voting Parity Stock  means any other class or series of stock of the Company now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company and having similar voting rights as the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock. 
    
   3.             Dividends  .  (a)(i)  Holders of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $87.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3. 
    
   (ii)  The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1, 2015 and on each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2022, as follows:  
    
   (1)  If the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock  
  
   181 

will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $92.00 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).  
    
   (2)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $97.00 per share (the  Second Adjusted Dividend ). 
    
   (3)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend. 
    
  Dividend Adjustment Table 

(4)  As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above, if on November 30, 2015, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $51.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $92.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $92.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2016.  If on November 30, 2016, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $61.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $97.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $97.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2017.  If on November 30, 2017, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $55.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $87.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $87.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2018. 
    
   (5)  For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted  
  
   182 

Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi). 
    
   (iii)  If one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted. 
    
   (iv)  Dividends payable on shares of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing March 1, 2014.  Dividends on shares of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof.  The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 
   (b)(i)  No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other.  Holders of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears. 
    
   (ii)  So long as any shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation and other than as provided in  
  
   183 

paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods. 
    
   4.    Conversion  .  Shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows: 
    
   (a)  Each share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4. 
    
   (b)  Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4. 
    
   (c)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
   (i)  The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof). 
    
   (ii)  A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open. 

184 

(iii)  (A)  For purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date. 
    
   (B)  For purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4. 
    
   (C)  For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock. 
    
  Each share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.  
    
   (iv)  The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof. 
    
   (v)   Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 

185 

(vi)   Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day. 
    
   (d)  In connection with any conversion of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, which Conversion Notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4.  Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request. 
    
   (e)  Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4,  the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted. 
    
   (f)  The issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2014 ESOP  
  
   186 

Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and after the effective date of a conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date.  The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares. 
    
   (g)  The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law. 
    
   (h)  The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding. 
    
   (i)  The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery. 
    
   (j)  The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid. 
    
   5.    Redemption At the Option of the Company  .  (a)  The 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable out of assets legally available therefor, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2014 ESOP Preferred  
  
   187 

Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5.  From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5. 
    
   (b)  Unless otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of certificated 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined.  The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so require and the notice shall so state). 
    
   (c)  The Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon redemption of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed. 
  
   188 

(d)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
   (i)   Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined. 
    
   (ii)   Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2014 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about January 10, 2014 between the Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto). 
    
   6.    Consolidation, Merger, etc.    (a)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the  
  
   189 

qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following: 
    
   (1)  After such transaction each share of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction. 
    
   (2)  The Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid. 
    
   (b)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares. 
    
   (c)  In the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this  
  
   190 

Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated.  No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction. 
    
   (d)  In the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period. 
    
   For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
   (i)   Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act. 
    
   (ii)  A  Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company. 
    
   7.    Liquidation Rights  .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before  
  
   191 

any payment or distribution shall be made on or set aside for the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on parity with or senior to the 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution. 
    
   (b)  Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger, consolidation or other business combination of the Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger, consolidation or other business combination of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7. 
    
   (c)  After the payment to the holders of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company. 
    
   (d)  In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up. 
    
  (e)  Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on parity with or prior to the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein. 
    
   8.    Ranking  .  For the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes of the Company shall be deemed to rank: 
    
   (a)  prior to the shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or  
  
   192 

winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock; 
    
   (b)  on a parity with shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock; and 
    
   (c)  junior to shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such series or class or classes. 
    
   9.    Priority of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock  .  The shares of 2014 ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2007 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2011 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2012 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, and its 2013 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.  

193 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by John G. Stumpf, its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, on this 8th day of January, 2014. 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 

By             /s/ John G. Stumpf                           
  John G. Stumpf 
  Chairman, President and 
  Chief Executive Officer 

Attest: 
    
  /s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                                        
  Jeannine E. Zahn 
  Assistant Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on January 8, 2014.] 

194 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  _____________________ 
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 
  _____________________ 
  5.90% FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL  
  CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES S 
  (Without Par Value) 
  _____________________ 
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly adopted on April 17, 2014, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
    Resolved,   that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated January 27, 2009, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES 
    
    Section 1.        Designation  .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated 5.90% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series S, with no par value and a liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share (the    Series S Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series S Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series S Preferred Stock except with respect to the date from which dividends may accrue. Series S Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or  
  
   195 

involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
    
    Section 2.        Number of Shares  .  The number of authorized shares of Series S Preferred Stock shall be 80,000.  Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series S Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series S Preferred Stock.  
  Section 3.        Definitions  .  As used herein with respect to Series S Preferred Stock:  
     Business Day    means for dividends payable for the Fixed Rate Period (as defined below) any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York, and for dividends payable for the Floating Rate Period (as defined below), it means any date that would be considered a Business Day during the Fixed Rate Period that is also a London Banking Day (as defined below). 
     Calculation Agent        means Wells Fargo Securities, LLC or any other successor appointed by the Corporation, acting as Calculation Agent. 
     Certificate of Designation    means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series S Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time. 
   Common Stock    means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
     Depositary Company    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.  
     Designated LIBOR Page    means the display on Reuters, or any successor service, on page LIBOR01, or any other page as may replace that page on that service, for the purpose of displaying the London interbank rates for U.S. dollars. 
     Dividend Payment Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.  
     Fixed Rate Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
  
   196 

Floating Rate Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
   Junior Stock    means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series S Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
     LIBOR Determination Date    means the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of the relevant Dividend Period. 
     Liquidation Preference    has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof. 
     London Banking Day    means any day on which commercial banks and foreign exchange markets settle payments in London. 
     Nonpayment Event    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
     Parity Stock    means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the Series S Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
     Preference Stock    means any and all series of preference stock, having no par value, of the Corporation.   
     Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series S Preferred Stock. 
     Preferred Stock Directors    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
     Regulatory Capital Treatment Event    means the Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change (including any announced prospective change) in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective on or after April 14, 2014; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective on or after April 14, 2014; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced on or after April 14, 2014, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of all shares of Series S Preferred Stock then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series S Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
     Series S Preferred Stock    has the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.  
  
   197 

Three-month LIBOR    means, for any LIBOR Determination Date, the arithmetic mean of the offered rates for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the second London Banking Day immediately following that LIBOR Determination Date that appear on the Designated LIBOR Page as of 11:00 a.m., London time, on that LIBOR Determination Date, if at least two offered rates appear on the Designated LIBOR Page, provided that if the specified Designated LIBOR Page by its terms provides only for a single rate, that single rate will be used.  If (i) fewer than two offered rates appear or (ii) no rate appears and the Designated LIBOR Page by its terms provides only for a single rate, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of each of four major banks in the London interbank market, as selected by the Calculation Agent, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the second London Banking Day immediately following that LIBOR Determination Date to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that LIBOR Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time.  If at least two quotations are provided, Three-month LIBOR determined on that LIBOR Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations.  If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-month LIBOR will be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on that LIBOR Determination Date by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time.  If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, Three-month LIBOR for that LIBOR Determination Date will remain Three-month LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period or, in the case of the Dividend Period beginning June 15, 2024, 5.90%.  All percentages used in or resulting from any calculation of Three-month LIBOR will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentages point, with .000005% rounded up to .00001%.  The determination of Three-month LIBOR for each relevant Dividend Period by the Calculation Agent will (in the absence of manifest error) be final and binding. 
     Voting Parity Stock    means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series S Preferred Stock. 
    Section 4.        Dividends.  
  (a)        Rate  .  Dividends on the Series S Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of Series S Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of the Series S Preferred Stock, payable (i) from April 22, 2014 to, but excluding, June 15, 2024 (the    Fixed Rate Period   ), semi-annually in arrears on the 15   th    day of each June and December, commencing December 15, 2014 at an annual rate of 5.90%, and (ii) from, and including, June 15, 2024 (the    Floating Rate Period   ), quarterly in arrears on the 15   th    day of each March, June, September and December, commencing September 15, 2024, at an annual rate equal to Three-month LIBOR plus 3.11%.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any date on or prior to June 15, 2024 on which dividends  
  
   198 

otherwise would be payable is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay, and if any date after June 15, 2024 on which dividends otherwise would be payable is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding Business Day unless that day falls in the next calendar month, in which case payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be the immediately preceding Business Day, and dividends will accrue to the actual payment date (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ).  A    Dividend Period    means the period from, and including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be the period from, and including, April 22, 2014 to, but excluding, December 15, 2014.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series S Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other date as determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  The amount of dividends payable for the Fixed Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  The amount of dividends payable for the Floating Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed.  Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward.  The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends payable for the Floating Rate Period, will be maintained on file at the Calculation Agent s principal offices. 
  (b)        Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series S Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series S Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series S Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series S Preferred Stock or any other series of authorized Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common Stock of the Corporation.  
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any shares of Series S Preferred Stock remain outstanding,  
  (1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock);  
  
   199 

(2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan, (iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after April 14, 2014, (viii) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock other than Common Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business); and 
  (3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series S Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after April 14, 2014, (v) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business),  
  
   200 

unless, in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of the Series S Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside. 
    Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series S Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series S Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series S Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among the holders of shares of Series S Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar dividend rights.   
  Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available for such payment, and the shares of Series S Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 
  Section 5.        Liquidation Rights.  
  (a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series S Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series S Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the    Liquidation Preference   ).  The holders of Series S Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.  
  (b)        Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series S Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series S Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preference of Series S Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.   
  (c)        Residual Distributions  .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series S Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the  
  
   201 

holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.  
  (d)        Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
  Section 6.        Redemption. 
  (a)        Optional Redemption  .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series S Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after June 15, 2024, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series S Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption date without accumulation     of any undeclared dividends.  
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares of Series S Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to June 15, 2024, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series S Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  
  (b)        Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series S Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series S Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series S Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series S Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption  
  
   202 

price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series S Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.   
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series S Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series S Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series S Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series S Preferred Stock held by such holders as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series S Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.  
  (d)        Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders  thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
  Section 7.        Voting Rights.  
  (a)        General.    The holders of Series S Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by applicable law. 
  (b)        Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events.    Whenever dividends payable on any shares of Series S Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, at least three semi-annual Dividend Periods or their equivalent, whether or not for consecutive  
  
   203 

Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment Event   ), the holders of the outstanding Series S Preferred Stock, voting together as a class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the    Preferred Stock Directors   ) by a plurality of the votes cast;   provided   that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding Series S Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the Series S Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series S Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full dividends for the equivalent of at least two semi-annual Dividend Periods or their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series S Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character described in this Section 7(b). 
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Series S Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series S Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series S Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to this Section 7(b). 
  (c)        Other Voting Rights  .  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series S Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of Series S Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series S Preferred Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person or by  
  
   204 

proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock ranking senior to the Series S Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the Bylaws that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series S Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series S Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification involving the Series S Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series S Preferred Stock will have no right to vote under this section 7(c)(iv) if in each case (a) the shares of Series S Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (b) such shares of Series S Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series S Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;   provided, however  , that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized amount of or issuance of the Series S Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series S Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series S Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon. 
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series S Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock). 
  Each holder of the Series S Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any matter on which holders of the Series S Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written consent.  
  (d)        Changes after Provision for Redemption  .  No vote or consent of the holders of Series S Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section,  
  
   205 

all outstanding Series S Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of redemption has been given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
  (e)         Procedures for Voting and Consents.   The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series S Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws and applicable law.  
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  .  The holders of Series S Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series S Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.  
  Section 9.        Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series S Preferred Stock which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series.  
  Section 10.        No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series S Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.  
  Section 11.        Additional Classes or Series of Stock  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of the holders of the Series S Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the holders of the Series S Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series S Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 

206 

In Witness Whereof, Wells Fargo   Company   has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, this 17   th    day of April, 2014. 
    
                 Wells Fargo   Company 

By: 
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett 
        
    Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer 

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                           
  Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on April 21, 2014.] 

207 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  _____________________ 
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 
  _____________________ 
  NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES T 
  (Without Par Value) 
  _____________________ 
    WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly adopted on July 18, 2014, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
    Resolved,   that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated April 29, 2014, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES 
    
    Section 1.        Designation  .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series T, with no par value and a liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share  (the    Series T Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series T Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series T Preferred Stock except with respect to the date from which dividends may accrue. Series T Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
  
   208 

Section 2.        Number of Shares  .  The number of authorized shares of Series T Preferred Stock shall be 32,200.  Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series T Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series T Preferred Stock.  
  Section 3.        Definitions  .  As used herein with respect to Series T Preferred Stock:  
     Business Day    means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York.  
     Certificate of Designation    means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series T Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time. 
   Common Stock    means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
     Depositary Company    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.  
       Dividend Payment Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.  
    Junior Stock    means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series T Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
     Liquidation Preference    has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof. 
     Nonpayment Event    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
     Parity Stock    means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the Series T Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
  
   209 

Preference Stock    means any and all series of preference stock, having no par value, of the Corporation.   
     Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series T Preferred Stock. 
     Preferred Stock Directors    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
     Regulatory Capital Treatment Event    means the Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change (including any announced prospective change) in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective on or after July 14, 2014; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective on or after July 14, 2014; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced on or after July 14, 2014, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of all shares of Series T Preferred Stock then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series T Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
     Series T Preferred Stock    has the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.  
     Voting Parity Stock    means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series T Preferred Stock. 
    Section 4.        Dividends.  
  (a)        Rate  .  Dividends on the Series T Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of Series T Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of the Series T Preferred Stock, payable quarterly in arrears on the 15th day of March, June, September and December     of each year     (commencing on September 15, 2014);   provided  ,   however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ).  A    Dividend Period    means the period from, and including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be the period from, and including, July 21, 2014 to, but excluding, September 15, 2014.  Dividends on each share of Series T Preferred Stock will accrue at a rate   per annum   equal to 6.00%.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series T Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other date as determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30- 
  
   210 

day months.  Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. 
  (b)        Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series T Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series T Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series T Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series T Preferred Stock or any other series of authorized Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common Stock of the Corporation.  
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any shares of Series T Preferred Stock remain outstanding,  
  (1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock);  
  (2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan, (iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after July 14, 2014, (viii) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock  
  
   211 

other than Common Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business); and 
  (3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series T Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after July 14, 2014, (v) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business), unless, in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of the Series T Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside. 
    Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series T Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series T Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series T Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among the holders of shares of Series T Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar dividend rights.   
    Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available for such payment, and the shares of Series T Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 
  
   212 

Section 5.        Liquidation Rights.  
  (a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series T Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series T Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the    Liquidation Preference   ).  The holders of Series T Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.  
  (b)        Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series T Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series T Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preference of Series T Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.   
  (c)        Residual Distributions  .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series T Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.  
  (d)        Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
  Section 6.        Redemption. 
  (a)        Optional Redemption  .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series T Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after September 15, 2019, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series T Preferred Stock  
  
   213 

shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption date without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares of Series T Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to September 15, 2019, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series T Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  
  (b)        Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series T Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series T Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series T Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series T Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series T Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.   
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series T Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series T Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series T Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series T Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner consistent with the rules and policies of the New York Stock Exchange as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series T Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.  
  (d)        Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in  
  
   214 

trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders  thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
  Section 7.        Voting Rights.  
  (a)        General.    The holders of Series T Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by applicable law. 
  (b)        Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events.    Whenever dividends payable on any shares of Series T Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, at least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment Event   ), the holders of the outstanding Series T Preferred Stock, voting together as a class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the    Preferred Stock Directors   ) by a plurality of the votes cast;   provided   that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding Series T Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the Series T Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series T Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full dividends for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend  
  
   215 

Periods or their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series T Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character described in this Section 7(b). 
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Series T Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series T Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series T Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to this Section 7(b). 
  (c)        Other Voting Rights  .  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series T Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of Series T Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series T Preferred Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock ranking senior to the Series T Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the Bylaws that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series T Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series T Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification involving the Series T Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series T Preferred Stock will have no right to vote under this section 7(c)(iv) if in each case (a) the shares of Series T Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or  
  
   216 

exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (b) such shares of Series T Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series T Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;   provided, however  , that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized amount of or issuance of the Series T Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series T Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series T Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon. 
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series T Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock). 
  Each holder of the Series T Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any matter on which holders of the Series T Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written consent.  
  (d)        Changes after Provision for Redemption  .  No vote or consent of the holders of Series T Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding Series T Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of redemption has been given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
  (e)         Procedures for Voting and Consents.   The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series T Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series T Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.  
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  .  The holders of Series T Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series T Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.  
  
   217 

Section 9.        Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series T Preferred Stock which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series.  
  Section 10.        No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series T Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.  
  Section 11.        Additional Classes or Series of Stock  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of the holders of the Series T Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the holders of the Series T Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series T Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
  US.54547103.01 

218 

In Witness Whereof, Wells Fargo   Company   has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, this 18th day of July, 2014. 
    
                 Wells Fargo   Company 

By: 
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett 
        
    Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer 

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn               
  Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on July 18, 2014.] 

219 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  _____________________ 
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 
  _____________________ 
  5.875% FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL  
  CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES U 
  (Without Par Value) 
  _____________________ 
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly adopted on January 22, 2015, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
    Resolved,   that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated April 29, 2014, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES 
    
    Section 1.        Designation  .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated 5.875% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series U, with no par value and a liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share (the    Series U Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series U Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to  
  
   220 

every other share of Series U Preferred Stock except with respect to the date from which dividends may accrue. Series U Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
    
    Section 2.        Number of Shares  .  The number of authorized shares of Series U Preferred Stock shall be 80,000.  Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series U Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series U Preferred Stock.  
  Section 3.        Definitions  .  As used herein with respect to Series U Preferred Stock:  
     Business Day    means for dividends payable for the Fixed Rate Period (as defined below) any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York, and for dividends payable for the Floating Rate Period (as defined below), it means any date that would be considered a Business Day during the Fixed Rate Period that is also a London Banking Day (as defined below). 
     Calculation Agent        means Wells Fargo Securities, LLC or any other successor appointed by the Corporation, acting as Calculation Agent. 
     Certificate of Designation    means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series U Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time. 
   Common Stock    means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
     Depositary Company    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.  
     Designated LIBOR Page    means the display on Reuters, or any successor service, on page LIBOR01, or any other page as may replace that page on that service, for the purpose of displaying the London interbank rates for U.S. dollars. 
     Dividend Payment Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
  
   221 

DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.  
     Fixed Rate Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
     Floating Rate Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
   Junior Stock    means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series U Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
     LIBOR Determination Date    means the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of the relevant Dividend Period. 
     Liquidation Preference    has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof. 
     London Banking Day    means any day on which commercial banks and foreign exchange markets settle payments in London. 
     Nonpayment Event    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
     Parity Stock    means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the Series U Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
     Preference Stock    means any and all series of preference stock, having no par value, of the Corporation.   
     Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series U Preferred Stock. 
     Preferred Stock Directors    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
     Regulatory Capital Treatment Event    means the Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change (including any announced prospective change) in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective on or after January 15, 2015; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective on or after January 15, 2015; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced on or after January 15, 2015, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of all shares of Series U Preferred Stock then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal banking  
  
   222 

agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series U Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
     Series U Preferred Stock    has the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.  
     Three-month LIBOR    means, for any LIBOR Determination Date, the arithmetic mean of the offered rates for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the second London Banking Day immediately following that LIBOR Determination Date that appear on the Designated LIBOR Page as of 11:00 a.m., London time, on that LIBOR Determination Date, if at least two offered rates appear on the Designated LIBOR Page, provided that if the specified Designated LIBOR Page by its terms provides only for a single rate, that single rate will be used.  If (i) fewer than two offered rates appear or (ii) no rate appears and the Designated LIBOR Page by its terms provides only for a single rate, then the Calculation Agent will request the principal London offices of each of four major banks in the London interbank market, as selected by the Calculation Agent, to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the second London Banking Day immediately following that LIBOR Determination Date to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on that LIBOR Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time.  If at least two quotations are provided, Three-month LIBOR determined on that LIBOR Determination Date will be the arithmetic mean of those quotations.  If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-month LIBOR will be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on that LIBOR Determination Date by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period and in a principal amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in that market at that time.  If the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, Three-month LIBOR for that LIBOR Determination Date will remain Three-month LIBOR for the immediately preceding Dividend Period or, in the case of the Dividend Period beginning June 15, 2025, 5.875%.  All percentages used in or resulting from any calculation of Three-month LIBOR will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentages point, with .000005% rounded up to .00001%.  The determination of Three-month LIBOR for each relevant Dividend Period by the Calculation Agent will (in the absence of manifest error) be final and binding. 
     Voting Parity Stock    means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series U Preferred Stock. 
    Section 4.        Dividends.  
  (a)        Rate  .  Dividends on the Series U Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of Series U Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of the Series U Preferred Stock, payable (i) from January 23, 2015 to, but excluding, June 15, 2025 (the    Fixed Rate Period   ), semi-annually in arrears on the 15   th    day of each June and December, commencing June 15, 2015 at an  
  
   223 

annual rate of 5.875%, and (ii) from, and including, June 15, 2025 (the    Floating Rate Period   ), quarterly in arrears on the 15   th    day of each March, June, September and December, commencing September 15, 2025, at an annual rate equal to Three-month LIBOR plus 3.99%.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any date on or prior to June 15, 2025 on which dividends otherwise would be payable is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay, and if any date after June 15, 2025 on which dividends otherwise would be payable is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding Business Day unless that day falls in the next calendar month, in which case payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be the immediately preceding Business Day, and dividends will accrue to the actual payment date (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ).  A    Dividend Period    means the period from, and including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be the period from, and including, January 23, 2015 to, but excluding, June 15, 2015.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series U Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other date as determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  The amount of dividends payable for the Fixed Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  The amount of dividends payable for the Floating Rate Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed.  Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward.  The Calculation Agent s determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends payable for the Floating Rate Period, will be maintained on file at the Calculation Agent s principal offices. 
  (b)        Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series U Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series U Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series U Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series U Preferred Stock or any other series of authorized Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common Stock of the Corporation.  
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any shares of Series U Preferred Stock remain outstanding,  
  (1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a  
  
   224 

dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock);  
  (2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan, (iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after January 15, 2015, (viii) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock other than Common Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business); and 
  (3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series U Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after January 15, 2015, (v) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in  
  
   225 

connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business),  
  unless, in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of the Series U Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside. 
    Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series U Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series U Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series U Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among the holders of shares of Series U Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar dividend rights.   
  Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available for such payment, and the shares of Series U Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 
  Section 5.        Liquidation Rights.  
  (a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series U Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series U Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the    Liquidation Preference   ).  The holders of Series U Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.  
  (b)        Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series U Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series U Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preference of Series U Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.   
  
   226 

(c)        Residual Distributions  .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series U Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.  
  (d)        Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
  Section 6.        Redemption. 
  (a)        Optional Redemption  .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series U Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after June 15, 2025, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series U Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption date without accumulation     of any undeclared dividends.  
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares of Series U Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to June 15, 2025, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series U Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  
  (b)        Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series U Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series U Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series U Preferred Stock.   
  
   227 

Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series U Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series U Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.   
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series U Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series U Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series U Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series U Preferred Stock held by such holders as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series U Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.  
  (d)        Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders  thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
  Section 7.        Voting Rights.  
  (a)        General.    The holders of Series U Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by applicable law. 
  
   228 

(b)        Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events.    Whenever dividends payable on any shares of Series U Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, at least three semi-annual Dividend Periods or their equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment Event   ), the holders of the outstanding Series U Preferred Stock, voting together as a class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the    Preferred Stock Directors   ) by a plurality of the votes cast;   provided   that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding Series U Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the Series U Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series U Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full dividends for the equivalent of at least two semi-annual Dividend Periods or their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series U Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character described in this Section 7(b). 
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Series U Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series U Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series U Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to this Section 7(b). 
  (c)        Other Voting Rights  .  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series U Preferred Stock  
  
   229 

remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of Series U Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series U Preferred Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock ranking senior to the Series U Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the Bylaws that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series U Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series U Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification involving the Series U Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series U Preferred Stock will have no right to vote under this section 7(c)(iv) if in each case (a) the shares of Series U Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (b) such shares of Series U Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series U Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;   provided, however  , that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized amount of or issuance of the Series U Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series U Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series U Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon. 
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series U Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock). 
  Each holder of the Series U Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any matter on which holders of the Series U Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written consent.  
  
   230 

(d)        Changes after Provision for Redemption  .  No vote or consent of the holders of Series U Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding Series U Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of redemption has been given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
  (e)         Procedures for Voting and Consents.   The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series U Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws and applicable law.  
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  .  The holders of Series U Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series U Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.  
  Section 9.        Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series U Preferred Stock which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series.  
  Section 10.        No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series U Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.  
  Section 11.        Additional Classes or Series of Stock  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of the holders of the Series U Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the holders of the Series U Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series U Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 

231 

In Witness Whereof, Wells Fargo   Company   has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, this 22   nd    day of January, 2015. 
    
                 Wells Fargo   Company 

By: 
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett 
        
    Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer 

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                           
  Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on January 22, 2015.] 

232 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  2015 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
  (Without Par Value) 
  ___________________________________ 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000, January 27, 2009, and February 24, 2009, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on March 20, 2015, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
    1.        On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolution (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to:  
    
  RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate. 

233 

2.        On January 27, 2009, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  January 2009 Resolutions ) amending the ESOP Board Resolutions to allow the ESOP Committee to establish the voting rights of any series of ESOP Preferred Stock: 
    
  RESOLVED that the resolution set forth in the ESOP Board Resolutions under the caption  Voting Rights of ESOP Preferred Stock  is hereby deleted in its entirety. 
    
  RESOLVED that the ESOP Board Resolutions are hereby further amended to delete  Appendix A - Voting Rights  in its entirety. 
    
  3.        Pursuant to resolutions adopted on February 24, 2009, the Board designated John G. Stumpf as the sole member of the ESOP Committee, effective April 29, 2009. 
    
  4.        On March 20, 2015, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions as amended by the January 2009 Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolution by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
    RESOLVED that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are hereby fixed as follows: 
    
  2015 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
    
    1.    Designation and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue  . 
    
    (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for herein shall be  2015 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2015 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock is 826,598, based on an offering price for the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,088.80 per share.  Each share of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share.  The number of authorized shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without  
  
   234 

designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock. 
    
  (b)  Shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer.  Shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates representing shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions.  In the case of uncertificated 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account.  The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof. 
    2.    Voting Rights  .  No shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows: 
    
    (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one  
  
   235 

or more series of Voting Parity Stock, as defined in paragraph (e) of this Section 2,whose voting rights are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company s Board at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the  Preferred Stock Directors ) by a plurality of the votes cast; provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such holders of such shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable) to elect Preferred Stock Directors as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned. 
    
    (b)  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2(b). 
    
    (c)  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least two-thirds in voting power of all such outstanding shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock and such series of Voting Parity Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to  
  
   236 

permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: 
    
    (i)  the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on the Company s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or  
    
    (ii)  the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designation designating shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers. 
    
    (d)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
    
    (e)  As used in this Section 2,  Voting Parity Stock  means any other class or series of stock of the Company now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company and having similar voting rights as the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock. 
    
    3.        Dividends  .  (a)(i)  Holders of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $89.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3. 
    
    (ii)  The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1,     2016 and on each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2023, as follows:   
    
    (1)  If the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but  
  
   237 

less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $94.00 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).   
    
    (2)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $99.00 per share (the  Second Adjusted Dividend ). 
    
    (3)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend. 
  
   238 

Dividend Adjustment Table 

(4)  As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above, if on November 30, 2016, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $62.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $94.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $94.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2017.  If on November 30, 2017, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $72.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $99.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $99.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2018.  If on November 30, 2018, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $65.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $89.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $89.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2019. 
    
    (5)  For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi). 
    
    (iii)  If one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such  
  
   239 

period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted. 
    
    (iv)  Dividends payable on shares of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing June 1, 2015.  Dividends on shares of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof.  The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 
    
    (b)(i)  No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other.  Holders of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears. 
    
    (ii)  So long as any shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration  
  
   240 

(or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods. 
    
    4.    Conversion  .  Shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows: 
    
    (a)  Each share of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4. 
    
    (b)  Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.  
    
    (c)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:  
    
    (i)  The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof). 
    
    (ii)  A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open. 
    
    (iii)  (A)  For purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date. 
    
    (B)  For purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b)  
  
   241 

of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  
    
    (C)  For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.  
    
  Each share of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.   
    
    (iv)  The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof. 
    (v)   Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
    
    (vi)   Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day. 
    (d)  In connection with any conversion of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the  
  
   242 

Company at its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, which Conversion Notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4.  Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request. 
    
    (e)  Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4,  the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted. 
    (f)  The issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and after the effective date of a conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the  
  
   243 

record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date.  The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares. 
    (g)  The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law. 
    (h)  The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding. 
    (i)  The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery. 
    (j)  The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid. 
    5.    Redemption At the Option of the Company  .  (a)  The 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable out of assets legally available therefor, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5.  From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full cumulative dividends have not been  
  
   244 

paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5. 
    (b)  Unless otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of certificated 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined.  The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so require and the notice shall so state). 
    (c)  The Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon redemption of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed. 
    (d)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    (i)   Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined. 
    (ii)   Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of the  
  
   245 

Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2015 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about March 26, 2015 between the Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto). 
    6.    Consolidation, Merger, etc.    (a)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following: 
    (1)  After such transaction each share of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction. 
    (2)  The Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid. 
  
   246 

(b)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares. 
    (c)  In the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated.  No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the  
  
   247 

successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction. 
    
    (d)  In the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period. 
    
    For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
    (i)   Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act. 
    
    (ii)  A  Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company. 
    
    7.    Liquidation Rights  .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on or set aside for the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on parity with or senior to the 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution. 
    
    (b)  Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger, consolidation or other business combination of the Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger, consolidation or other business combination of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7. 

248 

(c)  After the payment to the holders of the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company. 
    
    (d)  In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up. 
    (e)  Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on parity with or prior to the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein. 
    
    8.    Ranking  .  For the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes of the Company shall be deemed to rank: 
    
    (a)  prior to the shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock; 
    
    (b)  on a parity with shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock; and 
    
    (c)  junior to shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts  
  
   249 

distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such series or class or classes. 
    
    9.    Priority of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock  .  The shares of 2015 ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2006 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2007 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2011 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2012 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2013 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, and its 2014 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.   

250 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by John G. Stumpf, its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, on this 20th day of March, 2015. 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 

By      /s/ John G. Stumpf       
  John G. Stumpf 
  Chairman, President and  
  Chief Executive Officer 

Attest: 
    
     /s/ Jeannine E. Zahn       
  Jeannine E. Zahn 
  Assistant Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on March 25, 2015.] 

251 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  _____________________ 
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 
  _____________________ 
  NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES V 
  (Without Par Value) 
  _____________________ 
    WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly adopted on September 10, 2015, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
    Resolved,   that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated April 29, 2014, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES 
    
    Section 1.        Designation  .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series V, with no par value and a liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share  (the    Series V Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series V Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series V Preferred Stock except with respect to the date from which dividends may accrue. Series V Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to  
  
   252 

the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
    
    Section 2.        Number of Shares  .  The number of authorized shares of Series V Preferred Stock shall be 40,000.  Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series V Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series V Preferred Stock.  
    
  Section 3.        Definitions  .  As used herein with respect to Series V Preferred Stock:  
     Business Day    means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York.  
     Certificate of Designation    means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series V Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time. 
   Common Stock    means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
     Depositary Company    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.  
     Dividend Payment Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.  
   Junior Stock    means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series V Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
     Liquidation Preference    has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof. 
     Nonpayment Event    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
     Parity Stock    means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the Series V Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of  
  
   253 

assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
     Preference Stock    means any and all series of preference stock, having no par value, of the Corporation.   
     Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series V Preferred Stock. 
     Preferred Stock Directors    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
     Regulatory Capital Treatment Event    means the Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change (including any announced prospective change) in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective on or after September 8, 2015; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective on or after September 8, 2015; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced on or after September 8, 2015, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of all shares of Series V Preferred Stock then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series V Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
     Series V Preferred Stock    has the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.  
     Voting Parity Stock    means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series V Preferred Stock. 
    Section 4.        Dividends.  
  (a)        Rate  .  Dividends on the Series V Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of Series V Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of the Series V Preferred Stock, payable quarterly in arrears on the 15th day of March, June, September and December     of each year     (commencing on December 15, 2015);   provided  ,   however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ).  A    Dividend Period    means the period from, and including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be the period from, and including, September 15, 2015 to, but excluding, December 15, 2015.  Dividends on each share of Series V Preferred Stock will accrue at a rate   per annum   equal to  
  
   254 

6.00%.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series V Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other date as determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. 
  (b)        Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series V Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series V Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series V Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series V Preferred Stock or any other series of authorized Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common Stock of the Corporation.  
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any shares of Series V Preferred Stock remain outstanding,  
  (1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock);  
  (2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan, (iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or  
  
   255 

any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after September 8, 2015, (viii) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock other than Common Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business); and 
  (3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series V Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after September 8, 2015, (v) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business),  
  unless, in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of the Series V Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside. 
    Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series V Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series V Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series V Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among the holders of shares of Series V Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar dividend rights.   
    Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly  
  
   256 

authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available for such payment, and the shares of Series V Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 
  Section 5.        Liquidation Rights.  
  (a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series V Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series V Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the    Liquidation Preference   ).  The holders of Series V Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.  
  (b)        Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series V Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series V Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preference of Series V Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.   
  (c)        Residual Distributions  .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series V Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.  
  (d)        Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
  Section 6.        Redemption. 
  (a)        Optional Redemption  .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem,  
  
   257 

subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series V Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after December 15, 2020, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series V Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption date without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares of Series V Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to December 15, 2020, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series V Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  
  (b)        Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series V Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series V Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series V Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series V Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series V Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.   
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series V Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series V Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series V Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series V Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner consistent with the rules and policies of the New York Stock Exchange as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series V Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.  
  
   258 

(d)        Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
  Section 7.        Voting Rights.  
  (a)        General.    The holders of Series V Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by applicable law. 
  (b)        Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events.    Whenever dividends payable on any shares of Series V Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, at least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment Event   ), the holders of the outstanding Series V Preferred Stock, voting together as a class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the    Preferred Stock Directors   ) by a plurality of the votes cast;   provided   that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding Series V Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the Series V Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series V  
  
   259 

Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full dividends for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series V Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character described in this Section 7(b). 
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Series V Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series V Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series V Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to this Section 7(b). 
  (c)        Other Voting Rights  .  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series V Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of Series V Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series V Preferred Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock ranking senior to the Series V Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the Bylaws that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series V Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series V Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification involving the Series V Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series V Preferred  
  
   260 

Stock will have no right to vote under this section 7(c)(iv) if in each case (a) the shares of Series V Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (b) such shares of Series V Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series V Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;   provided, however  , that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized amount of or issuance of the Series V Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series V Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series V Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon. 
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series V Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock). 
  Each holder of the Series V Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any matter on which holders of the Series V Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written consent.  
  (d)        Changes after Provision for Redemption  .  No vote or consent of the holders of Series V Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding Series V Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of redemption has been given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
  (e)         Procedures for Voting and Consents.   The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series V Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series V Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.  
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  .  The holders of Series V Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series V Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.  
  
   261 

Section 9.        Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series V Preferred Stock which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series.  
  Section 10.        No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series V Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.  
  Section 11.        Additional Classes or Series of Stock  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of the holders of the Series V Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the holders of the Series V Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series V Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
  [Signature Page Follows] 
  US.98639891.01 

262 

In Witness Whereof, Wells Fargo   Company   has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, this 10   th    day of September, 2015. 
    
                 Wells Fargo   Company 

By: 
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett 
        
    Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President and 
  Assistant Treasurer 

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                               
  Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary 
    
  [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on September 11, 2015.] 

263 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  2016 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
  (Without Par Value) 
  ___________________________________ 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000, January 27, 2009, and February 24, 2009, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on January 4, 2016, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
    1.        On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolution (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan:  
    
  RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate. 
    2.        On January 27, 2009, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  January 2009 Resolutions ) amending the ESOP Board Resolutions to allow the ESOP Committee to establish the voting rights of any series of ESOP Preferred Stock: 
  
   264 

RESOLVED that the resolution set forth in the ESOP Board Resolutions under the caption  Voting Rights of ESOP Preferred Stock  is hereby deleted in its entirety. 
    
  RESOLVED that the ESOP Board Resolutions are hereby further amended to delete  Appendix A - Voting Rights  in its entirety. 
    
  3.        Pursuant to resolutions adopted on February 24, 2009, the Board designated John G. Stumpf as the sole member of the ESOP Committee, effective April 29, 2009. 
    
  4.        On January 4, 2016, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions as amended by the January 2009 Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolution by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
    RESOLVED that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are hereby fixed as follows: 
    
  2016 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
    
    1.    Designation and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue  . 
    
    (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for herein shall be  2016 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2016 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock is 1,150,000, based on an offering price for the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,086.00 per share.  Each share of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share.  The number of authorized shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized; provided, however, that the authorized number of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares f Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock. 
    (b)  Shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer  
  
   265 

of record ownership of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms otherwise providing for the conversion of the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer.  Shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates representing shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions.  In the case of uncertificated 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account.  The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof. 
    2.    Voting Rights  .  No shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows: 
    
    (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock, as defined in paragraph (e) of this Section 2,whose voting rights are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company s Board at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the  Preferred Stock Directors ) by a plurality of the votes cast; provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of  
  
   266 

Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by a vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such holders of such shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable) to elect Preferred Stock Directors as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned. 
    
    (b)  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2(b). 
    
    (c)  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least two-thirds in voting power of all such outstanding shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock and such series of Voting Parity Stock voting  
  together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: 
    
    (i)  the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on the Company s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or  

267 

(ii)  the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designation designating shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers. 
    
    (d)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
    
    (e)  As used in this Section 2,  Voting Parity Stock  means any other class or series of stock of the Company now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company and having similar voting rights as the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock. 
    
    3.        Dividends  .  (a)(i)  Holders of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $93.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3. 
    
    (ii)  The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1,     2017 and on each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2024, as follows:   
    
    (1)  If the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $98.00 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).   
    
    (2)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the  
  
   268 

Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $103.00 per share (the  Second Adjusted Dividend ). 
    
    (3)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend. 
  Dividend Adjustment Table 

(4)  As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above, if on November 30, 2017, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $64.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $98.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $98.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2018.  If on November 30, 2018, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $74.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $103.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $103.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2019.  If on November 30, 2019, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $68.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $93.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $93.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2020. 
    
    (5)  For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted  
  
   269 

Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi). 
    
    (iii)  If one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted. 
    
    (iv)  Dividends payable on shares of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing March 1, 2016.  Dividends on shares of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof.  The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 
    
    (b)(i)  No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other.  Holders of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears. 
    
    (ii)  So long as any shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights  
  
   270 

to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods. 
    
    4.    Conversion  .  Shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows: 
    
    (a)  Each share of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4. 
    
    (b)  Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.  
    
    (c)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:  
    
    (i)  The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof). 
    
    (ii)  A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open. 
  
   271 

(iii)  (A)  For purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date. 
    (B)  For purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  
    
    (C)  For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.  
    
  Each share of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.   
    
    (iv)  The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof. 
    (v)   Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
    
    (vi)   Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or another  
  
   272 

national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day. 
    (d)  In connection with any conversion of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, which Conversion Notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4.  Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request. 
    
    (e)  Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4,  the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted. 
    (f)  The issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of  
  
   273 

the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and after the effective date of a conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date.  The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares. 
    (g)  The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law. 
    (h)  The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding. 
    (i)  The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery. 
    (j)  The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid. 
    5.    Redemption at the Option of the Company  .  (a)  The 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable out of assets legally available therefor, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that  
  
   274 

term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5.  From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5. 
    (b)  Unless otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of certificated 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined.  The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so require and the notice shall so state). 
    (c)  The Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon redemption of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed. 
  
   275 

(d)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    (i)   Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined. 
    (ii)   Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2016 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about January 7, 2016 between the Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto). 
    6.    Consolidation, Merger, etc.    (a)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation, insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following: 
  
   276 

(1)  After such transaction each share of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction. 
    (2)  The Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid. 
    (b)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares. 
    (c)  In the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2016 ESOP  
  
   277 

Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated.  No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction. 
    
    (d)  In the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period. 
    
    For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
    (i)   Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act. 
    
    (ii)  A  Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company. 
    
    7.    Liquidation Rights  .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on or set aside for the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on parity with or senior to the 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all  
  
   278 

dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution. 
    
    (b)  Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger, consolidation or other business combination of the Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger, consolidation or other business combination of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7. 
    
    (c)  After the payment to the holders of the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company. 
    
    (d)  In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up. 
    (e)  Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on parity with or prior to the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein. 
    
    8.    Ranking  .  For the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes of the Company shall be deemed to rank: 
    
    (a)  prior to the shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock; 
    
    (b)  on a parity with shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any,  
  
   279 

be different from those of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock; and 
    
    (c)  junior to shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such series or class or classes. 
    
    9.    Priority of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock  .  The shares of 2016 ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2006 ESOP Cumulative Preferred Stock, its 2007 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2011 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2012 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2013 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2014 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, and its 2015 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.   

280 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by John G. Stumpf, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, on this 4th day of January, 2016. 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 

By       /s / John G. Stumpf                   
  John G. Stumpf 
  Chairman and  
  Chief Executive Officer 

Attest: 
    
  /s/ Jeannine E. Zahn               
  Jeannine E. Zahn 
  Assistant Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on January 5, 2016.] 

281 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  _____________________ 
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 
  _____________________ 
  NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES W 
  (Without Par Value) 
  _____________________ 
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly adopted on January 27, 2016, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
    Resolved,   that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated April 29, 2014, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES 
    
    Section 1.        Designation  .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series W, with no par value and a liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share (the    Series W Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series W Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series W Preferred Stock except with respect to the date from which dividends may accrue. Series W Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
  
   282 

Section 2.        Number of Shares  .  The number of authorized shares of Series W Preferred Stock shall be 40,000.  Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series W Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series W Preferred Stock.  
    
  Section 3.        Definitions  .  As used herein with respect to Series W Preferred Stock:  
     Business Day    means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York.  
     Certificate of Designation    means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series W Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time. 
   Common Stock    means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
     Depositary Company    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.  
     Dividend Payment Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.  
   Junior Stock    means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series W Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
     Liquidation Preference    has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof. 
     Nonpayment Event    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
     Parity Stock    means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the Series W Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
  
   283 

Preference Stock    means any and all series of preference stock, having no par value, of the Corporation.   
     Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series W Preferred Stock. 
     Preferred Stock Directors    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
     Regulatory Capital Treatment Event    means the Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change (including any announced prospective change) in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective on or after January 19, 2016; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective on or after January 19, 2016; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced on or after January 19, 2016, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of all shares of Series W Preferred Stock then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series W Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
     Series W Preferred Stock    has the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.  
     Voting Parity Stock    means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series W Preferred Stock. 
    Section 4.        Dividends.  
  (a)        Rate  .  Dividends on the Series W Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of Series W Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of the Series W Preferred Stock, payable quarterly in arrears on the 15th day of March, June, September and December     of each year     (commencing on March 15, 2016);   provided  ,   however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ).  A    Dividend Period    means the period from, and including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be the period from, and including, January 29, 2016 to, but excluding, March 15, 2016.  Dividends on each share of Series W Preferred Stock will accrue at a rate   per annum   equal to 5.70%.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series W Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other date as determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors.   
  
   284 

The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.  Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. 
  (b)        Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series W Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series W Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series W Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series W Preferred Stock or any other series of authorized Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common Stock of the Corporation.  
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any shares of Series W Preferred Stock remain outstanding,  
  (1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock);  
  (2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan, (iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after January 19, 2016, (viii) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock  
  
   285 

other than Common Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock other than Common Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business); and 
  (3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series W Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after January 19, 2016, (v) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business),  
  unless, in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of the Series W Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside. 
  Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series W Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series W Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series W Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among the holders of shares of Series W Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar dividend rights.   
    Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time  
  
   286 

out of any assets legally available for such payment, and the shares of Series W Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 
  Section 5.        Liquidation Rights.  
  (a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series W Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series W Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the    Liquidation Preference   ).  The holders of Series W Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.  
  (b)        Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series W Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series W Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preference of Series W Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.   
  (c)        Residual Distributions  .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series W Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.  
  (d)        Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
  Section 6.        Redemption. 
  (a)        Optional Redemption  .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series W Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at  
  
   287 

any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after March 15, 2021, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series W Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption date without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares of Series W Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to March 15, 2021, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series W Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  
  (b)        Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series W Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series W Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series W Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series W Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series W Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.   
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series W Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series W Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series W Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series W Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner consistent with the rules and policies of the New York Stock Exchange as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series W Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.  
  
   288 

(d)        Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
  Section 7.        Voting Rights.  
  (a)        General.    The holders of Series W Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by applicable law. 
  (b)        Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events.    Whenever dividends payable on any shares of Series W Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, at least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment Event   ), the holders of the outstanding Series W Preferred Stock, voting together as a class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the    Preferred Stock Directors   ) by a plurality of the votes cast;   provided   that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding Series W Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the Series W Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series W  
  
   289 

Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full dividends for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series W Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character described in this Section 7(b). 
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Series W Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series W Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series W Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to this Section 7(b). 
  (c)        Other Voting Rights  .  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series W Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of Series W Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series W Preferred Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock ranking senior to the Series W Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the Bylaws that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series W Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or Bylaws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series W Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification involving the Series W Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series W Preferred  
  
   290 

Stock will have no right to vote under this Section 7(c)(iv) if in each case (a) the shares of Series W Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (b) such shares of Series W Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series W Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;   provided, however  , that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized amount of or issuance of the Series W Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series W Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series W Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon. 
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series W Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock). 
  Each holder of the Series W Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any matter on which holders of the Series W Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written consent.  
  (d)        Changes after Provision for Redemption  .  No vote or consent of the holders of Series W Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding Series W Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of redemption has been given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
  (e)         Procedures for Voting and Consents.   The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series W Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series W Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.  
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  .  The holders of Series W Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series W Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.  
  
   291 

Section 9.        Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series W Preferred Stock which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series.  
  Section 10.        No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series W Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.  
  Section 11.        Additional Classes or Series of Stock  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of the holders of the Series W Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the holders of the Series W Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series W Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
  [Signature Page Follows] 
  US.103920609.06 

292 

In Witness Whereof, Wells Fargo   Company   has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, this 28th day of January, 2016. 
    
                 Wells Fargo   Company 

By: 
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett 
        
    Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President and 
  Assistant Treasurer 

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                           
  Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary 
    
  [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on January 28, 2016.] 

293 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  _____________________ 
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 
  _____________________ 
  NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES X 
  (Without Par Value) 
  _____________________ 
    WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly adopted on June 14, 2016, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
    Resolved,   that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated April 29, 2014, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES 
    
    Section 1.        Designation  .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series X, with no par value and a liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share (the    Series X Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series X Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series X Preferred Stock except with respect to the date from which dividends may accrue. Series X Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
  
   294 

Section 2.        Number of Shares  .  The number of authorized shares of Series X Preferred Stock shall be 46,000.  Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series X Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series X Preferred Stock.  
    
  Section 3.        Definitions  .  As used herein with respect to Series X Preferred Stock:  
     Business Day    means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York.  
     Certificate of Designation    means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series X Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time. 
   Common Stock    means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
     Depositary Company    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.  
     Dividend Payment Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.  
   Junior Stock    means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series X Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
     Liquidation Preference    has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof. 
     Nonpayment Event    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
     Parity Stock    means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the Series X Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
  
   295 

Preference Stock    means any and all series of preference stock, having no par value, of the Corporation.   
     Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series X Preferred Stock. 
     Preferred Stock Directors    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
     Regulatory Capital Treatment Event    means the Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change (including any announced prospective change) in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective on or after June 8, 2016; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective on or after June 8, 2016; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced on or after June 8, 2016, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of all shares of Series X Preferred Stock then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series X Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
     Series X Preferred Stock    has the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.  
     Voting Parity Stock    means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series X Preferred Stock. 
  Section 4.        Dividends.  
  (a)        Rate  .  Dividends on the Series X Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of Series X Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of the Series X Preferred Stock, payable quarterly in arrears on the 15th day of March, June, September and December     of each year     (commencing on September 15, 2016);   provided  ,   however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ).  A    Dividend Period    means the period from, and including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be the period from, and including, June 15, 2016 to, but excluding, September 15, 2016.  Dividends on each share of Series X Preferred Stock will accrue at a rate   per annum   equal to 5.50%.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series X Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other date as determined by the Corporation s  Board  of  Directors.              The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve  
  
   296 

30 day months.  Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. 
  (b)        Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series X Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series X Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series X Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series X Preferred Stock or any other series of authorized Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common Stock of the Corporation.  
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any shares of Series X Preferred Stock remain outstanding,  
  (1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock);  
  (2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan, (iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after June 8, 2016, (viii) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock other than Common Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of  

297 

the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business); and 
    
  (3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series X Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after June 8, 2016, (v) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business),  
    
  unless, in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of the Series X Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside. 
    
  Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series X Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series X Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series X Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among the holders of shares of Series X Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar dividend rights.   
    Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available for such payment, and the shares of Series X Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 

298 

Section 5.        Liquidation Rights.  
  (a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series X Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series X Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the    Liquidation Preference   ).  The holders of Series X Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.  
  (b)        Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series X Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series X Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preference of Series X Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.   
  (c)        Residual Distributions  .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series X Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.  
  (d)        Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
  Section 6.        Redemption. 
  (a)        Optional Redemption  .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series X Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after September 15, 2021, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series X Preferred Stock  
  
   299 

shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption date without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares of Series X Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to September 15, 2021, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series X Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  
  (b)        Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series X Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series X Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series X Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series X Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series X Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.   
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series X Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series X Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series X Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series X Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner consistent with the rules and policies of the New York Stock Exchange as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series X Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.  
  (d)        Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption  
  
   300 

have been irrevocably set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and 
  continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
  Section 7.        Voting Rights.  
  (a)        General.    The holders of Series X Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by applicable law. 
  (b)        Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events.    Whenever dividends payable on any shares of Series X Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, at least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment Event   ), the holders of the outstanding Series X Preferred Stock, voting together as a class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the    Preferred Stock Directors   ) by a plurality of the votes cast;   provided   that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding Series X Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the Series X Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series X Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other  
  
   301 

series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full dividends for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series X Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character described in this Section 7(b). 
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Series X Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series X Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series X Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to this Section 7(b). 
  (c)        Other Voting Rights  .  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series X Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of Series X Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series X Preferred Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock ranking senior to the Series X Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the By-laws that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series X Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or By-laws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series X Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification involving the Series X Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series X Preferred Stock will have no right to vote under this Section 7(c)(iv) if in each case (a) the shares of  
  
   302 

Series X Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (b) such shares of Series X Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference 
  securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series X Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;   provided, however  , that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized amount of or issuance of the Series X Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series X Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series X Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon. 
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series X Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock). 
  Each holder of the Series X Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any matter on which holders of the Series X Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written consent.  
  (d)        Changes after Provision for Redemption.  No vote or consent of the holders of Series X Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding Series X Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of redemption has been given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
  (e)         Procedures for Voting and Consents.   The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series X Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series X Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.  
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  .  The holders of Series X Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series X Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.  
  
   303 

Section 9.        Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series X Preferred Stock which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series.  
    
  Section 10.        No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series X Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.  
  Section 11.        Additional Classes or Series of Stock  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of the holders of the Series X Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the holders of the Series X Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series X Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
  [Signature Page Follows] 
    
  US.106566229.03 

304 

In Witness Whereof, Wells Fargo   Company   has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, this 14th day of June, 2016. 
    
                 Wells Fargo   Company 
      By: 
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett 
        
    Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer 

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn               
  Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary 
    
  [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on June 14, 2016.] 

305 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  2017 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
  (Without Par Value) 
  ___________________________________ 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000, January 27, 2009, and October 12, 2016, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on January 31, 2017, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
    1.        On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolution (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to:  
    
  RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate. 

306 

2.        On January 27, 2009, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  January 2009 Resolutions ) amending the ESOP Board Resolutions to allow the ESOP Committee to establish the voting rights of any series of ESOP Preferred Stock: 
    
  RESOLVED that the resolution set forth in the ESOP Board Resolutions under the caption  Voting Rights of ESOP Preferred Stock  is hereby deleted in its entirety. 
    
  RESOLVED that the ESOP Board Resolutions are hereby further amended to delete  Appendix A - Voting Rights  in its entirety. 
    
  3.        Pursuant to resolutions adopted on October 12, 2016, the Board designated Timothy J. Sloan as the sole member of the ESOP Committee, effective October 12, 2016. 
    
  4.        On January 31, 2017, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions as amended by the January 2009 Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolution by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
    RESOLVED that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are hereby fixed as follows: 
    
  2017 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
    
    1.    Designation and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue  . 
    
    (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for herein shall be  2017 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2017 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock is 950,000, based on an offering price for the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,033.00 per share.  Each share of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share.  The number of authorized shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock. 
  
   307 

(b)  Shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer.  Shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates representing shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions.  In the case of uncertificated 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account.  The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof. 
    2.    Voting Rights  .  No shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows: 
    
    (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock, as defined in  
  paragraph (e) of this Section 2,whose voting rights are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company s Board at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent  
  
   308 

annual meeting of stockholders (the  Preferred Stock Directors ) by a plurality of the votes cast; provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such holders of such shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable) to elect Preferred Stock Directors as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned. 
    
    (b)  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2(b). 
    
    (c)  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote  
  on the matter, by a vote of at least two-thirds in voting power of all such outstanding shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock and such series of Voting Parity Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: 
  
   309 

(i)  the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on the Company s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or  
    
    (ii)  the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designation designating shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers. 
    
    (d)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
    
    (e)  As used in this Section 2,  Voting Parity Stock  means any other class or series of stock of the Company now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company and having similar voting rights as the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock. 
    
    3.        Dividends  .  (a)(i)  Holders of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $70.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3. 
    
    (ii)  The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1,     2018 and on each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2025, as follows:   
    
    (1)  If the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for  
  
   310 

the immediately following twelve month period equal to $75.00 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).   
    
    (2)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $80.00 per share (the  Second Adjusted Dividend ). 
    
    (3)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend. 
  Dividend Adjustment Table 

(4)  As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above, if on November 30, 2018, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $63.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $75.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $75.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2019.  If on November 30, 2019, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $74.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $80.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $80.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2020.  If on November 30, 2020, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $68.00, then the cash dividend  
  
   311 

payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $70.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $70.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2021. 
    
    (5)  For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi). 
    
    (iii)  If one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted. 
    
    (iv)  Dividends payable on shares of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing June 1, 2017.  Dividends on shares of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof.  The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 
    
    (b)(i)  No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other.  Holders of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full  
  
   312 

cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears. 
    
    (ii)  So long as any shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods. 
    
    4.    Conversion  .  Shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows: 
    
    (a)  Each share of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4. 
    
    (b)  Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.  
    
    (c)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:  
    
    (i)  The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common  
  
   313 

Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof). 
    
    (ii)  A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open. 
    
    (iii)  (A)  For purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date. 
    
    (B)  For purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  
    
    (C)  For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.  
    
  Each share of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.   
    
    (iv)  The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof. 
  
   314 

(v)   Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
    (vi)   Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or  
  another national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day. 
    (d)  In connection with any conversion of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, which Conversion Notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4.  Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request. 
    
    (e)  Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4,  the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted. 
  
   315 

(f)  The issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and after the effective date of a conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date.  The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares. 
    (g)  The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law. 
    (h)  The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding. 
    (i)  The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery. 
    (j)  The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid. 
  
   316 

5.    Redemption At the Option of the Company  .  (a)  The 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable out of assets legally available therefor, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5.  From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5. 
    (b)  Unless otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of certificated 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined.  The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so require and the notice shall so state). 
    (c)  The Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon redemption of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date  
  
   317 

fixed for redemption of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed. 
    (d)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    (i)   Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined. 
    (ii)   Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2017 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about February 2, 2017 between the Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto). 
    6.    Consolidation, Merger, etc.    (a)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation,  
  
   318 

insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following: 
    (1)  After such transaction each share of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction. 
    (2)  The Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid. 
    (b)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares. 
  
   319 

(c)  In the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated.  No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction. 
    
    (d)  In the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period. 
    
    For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
    (i)   Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act. 
    
    (ii)  A  Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company. 
    
    7.    Liquidation Rights  .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and  
  
   320 

to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on or set aside for the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on parity with or senior to the 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution. 
    
    (b)  Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger, consolidation or other business combination of the Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger, consolidation or other business combination of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7. 
    
    (c)  After the payment to the holders of the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company. 
    
    (d)  In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up. 
    
  (e)  Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on parity with or prior to the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein. 
    
    8.    Ranking  .  For the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes of the Company shall be deemed to rank: 
    
    (a)  prior to the shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or  
  
   321 

winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock; 
    
    (b)  on a parity with shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock; and 
    
    (c)  junior to shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such series or class or classes. 
    
    9.    Priority of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock  .  The shares of 2017 ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2008 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2011 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2012 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2013 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2014 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2015 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, and its 2016 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.   

322 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Timothy J. Sloan, its Chief Executive Officer and President, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, on this 31st day of January, 2017. 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 

By   /s/ Timothy J. Sloan       
  Timothy J. Sloan 
  President and 
  Chief Executive Officer 

Attest: 
    
  /s/ Jeannine E. Zahn       
  Jeannine E. Zahn 
  Assistant Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on February 1, 2017] 

323 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  _____________________ 
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the 
  General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 
  _____________________ 
  NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CLASS A PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES Y 
  (Without Par Value) 
  _____________________ 
    WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Securities Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the unanimous written consent of the Committee duly adopted on April 21, 2017, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
    Resolved,   that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated October 25, 2016, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, no par value, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  RIGHTS AND PREFERENCES 
    
    Section 1.        Designation  .  The shares of such series of Preferred Stock shall be designated Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series Y, with no par value and a liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share (the    Series Y Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series Y Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series Y Preferred Stock except with respect to the date from which dividends may accrue. Series Y Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
  
   324 

Section 2.        Number of Shares  .  The number of authorized shares of Series Y Preferred Stock shall be 27,600.  Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series Y Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series Y Preferred Stock.  
    
  Section 3.        Definitions  .  As used herein with respect to Series Y Preferred Stock:  
     Business Day    means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York.  
     Certificate of Designation    means this Certificate of Designation relating to the Series Y Preferred Stock, as it may be amended from time to time. 
   Common Stock    means the common stock of the Corporation, par value $1  per share, as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
     Depositary Company    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.  
     Dividend Payment Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.  
   Junior Stock    means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which the Series Y Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
     Liquidation Preference    has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a) hereof. 
     Nonpayment Event    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
     Parity Stock    means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the Series Y Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
  
   325 

Preference Stock    means any and all series of preference stock, having no par value, of the Corporation.   
     Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock, having no par value, of the Corporation, including the Series Y Preferred Stock. 
     Preferred Stock Directors    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
     Regulatory Capital Treatment Event    means the Corporation s reasonable determination that as a result of any (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change (including any announced prospective change) in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective on or after April 17, 2017; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective on or after April 17, 2017; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced on or after April 17, 2017, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation will not be entitled to treat the full liquidation preference amount of all shares of Series Y Preferred Stock then outstanding as Tier 1 capital (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of Series Y Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
     Series Y Preferred Stock    has the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.  
     Voting Parity Stock    means any Parity Stock having similar voting rights as the Series Y Preferred Stock. 
    Section 4.        Dividends.  
  (a)        Rate  .  Dividends on the Series Y Preferred Stock will not be mandatory.  Holders of Series Y Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of the Series Y Preferred Stock, payable quarterly in arrears on the 15th day of March, June, September and December     of each year     (commencing on June 15, 2017);   provided  ,   however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ).  A    Dividend Period    means the period from, and including, a Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date, except for the initial Dividend Period, which will be the period from, and including, April 24, 2017 to, but excluding, June 15, 2017.  Dividends on each share of Series Y Preferred Stock will accrue at a rate   per annum   equal to 5.625%.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series Y Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other date as determined by the Corporation s Board of Directors.  The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30 day months.   
  
   326 

Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. 
  (b)        Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series Y Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series Y Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared prior to such Dividend Payment Date, then such dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series Y Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or at any time in the future or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series Y Preferred Stock or any other series of authorized Preferred Stock, Preference Stock, or Common Stock of the Corporation.  
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any shares of Series Y Preferred Stock remain outstanding,  
  (1) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Common Stock, and no shares of Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable in Common Stock or (ii) the acquisition of shares of Common Stock in exchange for, or through application of proceeds of the sale of, shares of Common Stock);  
  (2) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock other than Common Stock, and no shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly, nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock other than Common Stock by the Corporation (other than (i) a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a stockholder rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan, (iii) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock, (iv) as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into other Junior Stock, (v) the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock other than Common Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, (vi) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock, (vii) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after April 17, 2017, (viii) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Junior Stock other than Common Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Junior Stock  
  
   327 

other than Common Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (ix) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (x) the purchase of Junior Stock other than Common Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business); and 
  (3) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series Y Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock during a Dividend Period (other than (i) as a result of a reclassification of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (ii) the exchange or conversion of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iii) through the use of proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Parity Stock or Junior Stock, (iv) any purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Parity Stock pursuant to any of the Corporation s or any of its subsidiaries  employee, consultant or director incentive or benefit plans or arrangements (including any employment, severance or consulting arrangements) adopted before or after April 17, 2017, (v) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of Parity Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Parity Stock or the securities being converted or exchanged, (vi) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with the distribution thereof or (vii) the purchase of Parity Stock by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or any other affiliate of the Corporation, in connection with market-making or other secondary market activities in the ordinary course of business),  
  unless, in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of the Series Y Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside. 
  Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series Y Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared, paid, or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series Y Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series Y Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of those declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a proportional basis among the holders of shares of Series Y Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding where the terms of such Parity Stock provide similar dividend rights.   
    Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on the Common Stock and any other stock that is Parity Stock or Junior Stock, from time to time out of any assets legally available for such payment, and the shares of Series Y Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 
  
   328 

Section 5.        Liquidation Rights.  
  (a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series Y Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in full out of assets available for distribution to its stockholders before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of the Common Stock or any other Junior Stock, and subject to the rights of the holders of Parity Stock or any stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series Y Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in the amount of $25,000 per share, plus an amount equal to any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation (the    Liquidation Preference   ).  The holders of Series Y Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.  
  (b)        Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference to all holders of Series Y Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series Y Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preference of Series Y Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.   
  (c)        Residual Distributions  .  If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series Y Preferred Stock and all other amounts payable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation have been paid in full to all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Common Stock and any other Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.  
  (d)        Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
  Section 6.        Redemption. 
  (a)        Optional Redemption  .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem, subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series Y Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after June 15, 2022, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series Y Preferred Stock                     
  
   329 

shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid up to the redemption date without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, within 90 days of the Corporation s good faith determination that a Regulatory Capital Treatment Event has occurred, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may, subject to the approval of the appropriate federal banking agency, redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole, but not in part, the shares of Series Y Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, prior to June 15, 2022, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series Y Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  
  (b)        Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series Y Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 40 days and not more than 70 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series Y Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series Y Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series Y Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, if applicable, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for those shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series Y Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.   
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series Y Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series Y Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series Y Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series Y Preferred Stock held by such holders or in such other manner consistent with the rules and policies of the New York Stock Exchange as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series Y Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.  
  (d)        Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been irrevocably set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in  
  
   330 

trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from the Depository Company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.  
  Section 7.        Voting Rights.  
  (a)        General.    The holders of Series Y Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by applicable law. 
  (b)        Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events.    Whenever dividends payable on any shares of Series Y Preferred Stock or any class or series of Voting Parity Stock have not been declared and paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, at least six quarterly Dividend Periods or their equivalent, whether or not for consecutive Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment Event   ), the holders of the outstanding Series Y Preferred Stock, voting together as a class with holders of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors of the Corporation s Board of Directors at the Corporation s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the    Preferred Stock Directors   ) by a plurality of the votes cast;   provided   that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of the outstanding Series Y Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the Series Y Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 25 votes for each share held (the holders of shares of any other series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of such stock as may be granted to them).  The right of the holders of the Series Y Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more other series of Voting Parity Stock) to elect Preferred Stock Directors shall continue until such time as the Corporation has paid in full dividends for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend  
  
   331 

Periods or their equivalent, at which time such right with respect to the Series Y Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as provided by law, and subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character described in this Section 7(b). 
  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of Series Y Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by only those holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series Y Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of Series Y Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this Section 7(b) shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to this Section 7(b). 
  (c)        Other Voting Rights  .  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of the Series Y Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of Series Y Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all other series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote on the matter, by a vote of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all such outstanding Series Y Preferred Stock and such Voting Parity Stock, voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following actions, whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: (i) the issuance of any class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock ranking senior to the Series Y Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; (ii) any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or the By-laws that would adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series Y Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment or alteration of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, including the Certificate of Designation, or By-laws to authorize, create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into shares of, any class or series of the Corporation s capital stock ranking senior to the Series Y Preferred Stock with respect to either the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets in the event of the Corporation s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or (iv) any consummation of a reclassification involving the Series Y Preferred Stock or a merger or consolidation with another corporation or other entity, except holders of the Series Y Preferred Stock will have no right to vote under this Section 7(c)(iv) if in each case (a) the shares of Series Y Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into  
  
   332 

or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (b) such shares of Series Y Preferred Stock remaining outstanding or such preference  
  securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series Y Preferred Stock, taken as a whole;   provided, however  , that any authorization, creation or increase in the authorized amount of or issuance of the Series Y Preferred Stock or any Parity Stock or Junior Stock or any securities convertible into any class or series of Parity Stock (whether dividends payable in respect of such Parity Stock are cumulative or non-cumulative) or Junior Stock will be deemed not to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series Y Preferred Stock, and holders of the Series Y Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote thereon. 
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect one or more but not all series of voting Preferred Stock (including the Series Y Preferred Stock), then only those series affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock). 
  Each holder of the Series Y Preferred Stock will have 25 votes per share on any matter on which holders of the Series Y Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, whether separately or together with any other series of stock of the Corporation (the holders of any shares of any other series of stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock as may be granted to them), pursuant to Delaware law or otherwise, including by written consent.  
  (d)        Changes after Provision for Redemption  .  No vote or consent of the holders of Series Y Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding Series Y Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or notice of redemption has been given and sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
  (e)         Procedures for Voting and Consents.   The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series Y Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility in which the Series Y Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.  
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  .  The holders of Series Y Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series Y Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.  
  
   333 

Section 9.        Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series Y Preferred Stock which have been issued and redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series.  
  Section 10.        No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series Y Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.  
  Section 11.        Additional Classes or Series of Stock  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, (i) without the vote of the holders of the Series Y Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock and Parity Stock and (ii) with the requisite vote of the holders of the Series Y Preferred Stock and Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, may authorize and issue any additional class or series of Preferred Stock or Preference Stock senior to the Series Y Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
  [Signature Page Follows] 

334 

In Witness Whereof, Wells Fargo   Company   has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Barbara S. Brett, its Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer, and Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, this 21   st    day of April, 2017. 
    
                 Wells Fargo   Company 
      By: 
    /s/ Barbara S. Brett 
        
    Barbara S. Brett, Senior Vice President and Assistant Treasurer 

/s/ Jeannine E. Zahn                           
  Jeannine E. Zahn, Assistant Secretary 
    
  [As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on April 27, 2017] 

335 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
  ___________________________________ 
    
  2018 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
  (Without Par Value) 
  ___________________________________ 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), HEREBY CERTIFIES that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) by the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, which authorize the issuance of not more than 20,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ), and pursuant to authority conferred upon the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I of the Board (the  ESOP Committee ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  General Corporation Law ) and by the resolutions of the Board set forth herein, the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Board at meetings of the Board duly held on January 25, 2000, January 27, 2009, and October 12, 2016, and by the ESOP Committee pursuant to the written consent of the ESOP Committee duly adopted on January 23, 2018, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
    1.        On January 25, 2000, the Board adopted the following resolution (the  ESOP Board Resolutions ) appointing the ESOP Committee and delegating to the ESOP Committee the full powers of the Board, subject to the ESOP Board Resolutions, in all matters relating to issuance of one or more series of Preferred Stock ( ESOP Preferred Stock ) to the trustee on behalf of the Company s 401(k) Plan hereinafter referred to:  
    
  RESOLVED that a committee of one member of the Board of the Company is hereby appointed by the Board as the ESOP Preferred Stock Committee I (the  First Committee ), which shall have and may exercise the full powers of the Board, subject to these resolutions, to issue from time to time one or more series of ESOP Preferred Stock, including any shares of Company common stock ($1 2/3 par value) issuable upon conversion of ESOP Preferred Stock, and in connection therewith, to fix the designations, voting powers, preferences, and all other rights, qualifications and restrictions of such ESOP Preferred Stock, to sell such ESOP Preferred Stock to the Plan on such terms and conditions and for such purchase price as the First Committee in its discretion shall approve, and to take any and all actions as the First Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate. 

336 

2.        On January 27, 2009, the Board adopted the following resolutions (the  January 2009 Resolutions ) amending the ESOP Board Resolutions to allow the ESOP Committee to establish the voting rights of any series of ESOP Preferred Stock: 
    
  RESOLVED that the resolution set forth in the ESOP Board Resolutions under the caption  Voting Rights of ESOP Preferred Stock  is hereby deleted in its entirety. 
    
  RESOLVED that the ESOP Board Resolutions are hereby further amended to delete  Appendix A - Voting Rights  in its entirety. 
    
  3.        Pursuant to resolutions adopted on October 12, 2016, the Board designated Timothy J. Sloan as the sole member of the ESOP Committee, effective October 12, 2016. 
    
  4.        On January 23, 2018, pursuant to authority conferred upon it by the Board in the ESOP Board Resolutions as amended by the January 2009 Resolutions, the ESOP Committee adopted the following resolution by written consent in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
    RESOLVED that the issuance of a series of Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company is hereby authorized and the designation, voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, in addition to those set forth in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as amended, are hereby fixed as follows: 
    
  2018 ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK 
    
    1.    Designation and Number of Shares; Restricted Issue  . 
    
    (a) The designation of the series of Preferred Stock, without par value, provided for herein shall be  2018 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock  (hereinafter referred to as the  2018 ESOP Preferred Stock ) and the number of authorized shares constituting the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock is 1,100,000, based on an offering price for the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock of $1,039.00 per share.  Each share of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $1,000.00 per share.  The number of authorized shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock may be reduced by further resolution duly adopted by the Board or the Securities Committee and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized, provided, however, that the authorized number of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be decreased below the then outstanding number of such shares, and provided further that the number of authorized shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be increased.  All shares of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed, or converted by the Company shall be retired and canceled and shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock. 
  
   337 

(b)  Shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee (the  Trustee ) acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan, or any successor to such plan (the  Plan ).  All references to the holder of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall mean the Trustee or any company with which or into which the Trustee may merge or any successor trustee under the trust agreement with respect to the Plan.  In the event of any transfer of record ownership of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any successor trustee under the Plan, the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, shall be automatically converted into shares of the common stock, par value $1-2/3 per share, of the Company (the  Common Stock ) on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted.  In the event of such a conversion, the transferee of the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder of the shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock have been automatically converted as of the date of such transfer.  Shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock may be certificated or uncertificated, at the Company s option.  Certificates representing shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall bear a legend to reflect the foregoing provisions.  In the case of uncertificated 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, the transfer agent for the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall note the foregoing provisions on each 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock book entry account.  The Company may require that, as a condition to transferring record ownership of any uncertificated 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, the proposed transferee acknowledge in writing that the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock are subject to the foregoing provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (b) of Section 1, shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock (i)(A) shall be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 4 hereof, and (B) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph (b) of Section 4 hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Company upon the terms and conditions provided in Sections 5 and 6(c) hereof. 
    2.    Voting Rights  .  No shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have voting rights except such voting rights as may from time to time be required by law and as set forth in this Section 2, as follows: 
    
    (a)  Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be in arrears for such number of dividend periods which shall in the aggregate contain not less than 540 days, the holders of the outstanding shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the exclusive right, voting together as a class with holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock, as defined in paragraph (e) of this Section 2,whose voting rights are exercisable, to elect two directors of the Company s Board at the Company s next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders (the  
  
   338 

Preferred Stock Directors ) by a plurality of the votes cast; provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Parity Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).  At elections for such directors, each holder of the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share held (the holders of shares of any series of Voting Parity Stock being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of Preferred Stock held as may be granted to them).  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock (together with the holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable) as herein set forth.  The right of such holders of such shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock (voting together as a class with the holders of shares of any one or more series of Voting Parity Stock whose voting rights are exercisable) to elect Preferred Stock Directors as aforesaid shall continue until such time as all dividends accumulated on such shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, at which time such right with respect to such shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall terminate, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned. 
    
    (b)  Upon any termination of the right of the holders of all shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote for Preferred Stock Directors, the term of office of all Preferred Stock Directors then in office elected by such holders voting as a class shall terminate immediately.  Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a class). In case any vacancy shall occur among the Preferred Stock Directors, a successor may be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock having the voting rights described above, voting together as a class, unless the vacancy has already been filled. The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote.  Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting powers vested in such holders as provided in this resolution shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-Laws of the Company irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2(b). 
    
    (c)  In addition to any other vote required by law or the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, so long as any shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of the outstanding shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock and outstanding shares of all series of Voting Parity Stock entitled to vote  
  on the matter, by a vote of at least two-thirds in voting power of all such outstanding shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock and such series of Voting Parity Stock voting together as a class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any special or annual meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following whether or not such approval is required by Delaware law: 

339 

(i)  the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets on the Company s voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or  
    
    (ii)  the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designation designating shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock and the preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof which would materially and adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock or of the holders thereof; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance of other series of Preferred Stock, or any increase in the amount of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to materially and adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers. 
    
    (d)  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been irrevocably deposited in trust to effect such redemption. 
    
    (e)  As used in this Section 2,  Voting Parity Stock  means any other class or series of stock of the Company now existing or hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) or in the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company and having similar voting rights as the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock. 
    
    3.        Dividends  .  (a)(i)  Holders of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof, out of assets of the Company legally available for payment, an annual cash dividend of $70.00 (the  Base Dividend ) per share, which Base Dividend shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in this Section 3. 
    
    (ii)  The Base Dividend shall be adjusted, effective on December 1,     2019 and on each December 1 thereafter until December 1, 2026, as follows:   
    
    (1)  If the Current Market Price (as hereinafter defined) of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day (as hereinafter defined) if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the First Target Price but less than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for  
  
   340 

the immediately following twelve month period equal to $75.00 per share (the  First Adjusted Dividend ).   
    
    (2)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or the next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is equal to or greater than the Second Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then holders of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to $80.00 per share (the  Second Adjusted Dividend ). 
    
    (3)  If the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on November 30 (or next preceding Trading Day if November 30 is not a Trading Day) of any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table below is less than the First Target Price shown opposite that year in such table, then the holders of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive a cash dividend for the immediately following twelve month period equal to the Base Dividend. 
  Dividend Adjustment Table 

(4)  As an example of the adjustments described in subparagraphs (1) through (3) above, if on November 30, 2019, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $73.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $75.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $75.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2020.  If on November 30, 2020, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $84.00, then the cash dividend payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $80.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $80.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2021.  If on November 30, 2021, the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock is $78.00, then the cash dividend  
  
   341 

payable for the immediately following twelve month period per share of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock would equal $70.00, with the first quarterly payment of such $70.00 dividend to be made on March 1, 2022. 
    
    (5)  For purposes of this Section 3, the terms  First Adjusted Dividend  and  Second Adjusted Dividend  are sometimes referred to as an  Adjusted Dividend;  the term  Current Market Price  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(iv); and the term  Trading Day  shall have the meaning given to it in Section 4(c)(vi). 
    
    (iii)  If one share of Common Stock in any year listed in the Dividend Adjustment Table shall be changed into a different number of shares or a different class of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or readjustment, or if a stock dividend thereon shall be declared with a record date within such period, then the First Target Price and the Second Target Price listed in such table for that year and each subsequent year will be appropriately and proportionately adjusted. 
    
    (iv)  Dividends payable on shares of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock (whether such dividends are equal to the Base Dividend or to an Adjusted Dividend) shall be payable quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 of each year, commencing June 1, 2018.  Dividends on shares of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock will be cumulative from the date of initial issuance of such shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock.  Dividends will be payable, in arrears, to holders of record as they appear on the stock books of the Company on such record dates, not more than 30 days nor less than 15 days preceding the payment dates thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee thereof.  The amount of dividends payable per share for each dividend period shall be computed by dividing by four the Base Dividend or the Adjusted Dividend, whichever is then applicable.  The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period or any period shorter than a full dividend period shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed in a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 
    
    (b)(i)  No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any stock of the Company ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set apart for such payment on shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends.  When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock and such other series of Preferred Stock bear to each other.  Holders of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property, or stock, in excess of full  
  
   342 

cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock.  No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock which may be in arrears. 
    
    (ii)  So long as any shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, no dividend (other than dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants, or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock or any other stock ranking junior to 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation and other than as provided in paragraph (b)(i) of this Section 3) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock or any other capital stock of the Company ranking junior to or on a parity with 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up be redeemed, purchased, or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Company (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Company ranking junior to 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up), unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and set aside for payment of the then current dividend payment period and all past dividend payment periods. 
    
    4.    Conversion  .  Shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock are convertible from time to time hereafter pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 4 into that number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the stated value of each share of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock by the then applicable Conversion Price, (as determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(iii) of this Section 4), as follows: 
    
    (a)  Each share of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan in accordance with the terms thereof shall be automatically converted, without any further action by the Company or the holder thereof, as of the date such release occurs (the  Release Date ), into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4. 
    
    (b)  Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 4, a holder of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled at any time, prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 hereof, to cause any or all of the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock held by such holder to be converted into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at the then applicable Conversion Price for 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock provided for in paragraph (c) of this Section 4.  
    
    (c)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:  
    
    (i)  The  Average Current Market Price  per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the Current Market Price for one share of Common  
  
   343 

Stock for the twenty (20) consecutive Trading Days ending on the Trading Day occurring prior to the date the  Purchase Offer  is made (as that term is defined in Section 6(d) hereof). 
    
    (ii)  A  Business Day  means each day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a day on which state or federally chartered banking institutions in the State of New York are not required to be open. 
    
    (iii)  (A)  For purposes of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the relevant Release Date. 
    
    (B)  For purposes of an optional conversion of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock on the date the Conversion Notice (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 4) is received by the Company, by the transfer agent for the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock or by any agent for conversion of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock designated as such pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  
    
    (C)  For purposes of a conversion of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock in connection with a  Purchase Offer  (as defined in Section 6(d) hereof), the  Conversion Price  for such shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be the Average Current Market Price of one share of Common Stock.  
    
  Each share of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be valued at its stated value of $1,000.00 for purposes of computing, based on the applicable Conversion Price, the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock will be converted.   
    
    (iv)  The  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other security of the Company or any other issuer for any day shall mean the reported last sale price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange only or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System ( NASDAQ ) or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on such National Market System, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by NASDAQ or, if bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on each such day shall not have been reported through NASDAQ, the average of the bid and asked prices for such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof or, if no such quotations are available, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by a New York Stock Exchange member firm regularly making a market in the Common Stock selected for such purpose by the Board or a committee thereof. 
  
   344 

(v)   Common Stock  shall mean the Common Stock of the Company as the same exists at the date of this Certificate of Designation or as such stock may be constituted from time to time. 
    (vi)   Trading Day  with respect to Common Stock means (x) if the Common Stock is listed or admitted for trading on the New York Stock Exchange or  
  another national securities exchange, a day on which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange is open for business or (y) if the Common Stock is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ, a day on which trades may be made on such National Market System or (z) otherwise, any Business Day. 
    (d)  In connection with any conversion of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 4, a written notice of conversion (the  Conversion Notice ) shall be delivered to the Company at its principal executive office or the offices of the transfer agent for the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock by the Company or the transfer agent for the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, which Conversion Notice shall be accompanied by (a) in the case of certificated 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, the certificate or certificates representing the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Company (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto) and (b) in the case of uncertificated 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, duly executed assignment and transfer documents for the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted pursuant to this Section 4.  Each Conversion Notice shall specify (i)(y) in the case of a mandatory conversion pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the Plan on the Release Date or (z) in the case of an optional conversion pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, the number of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, and (ii) in connection with any conversion hereunder, (x) the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and, in the case of certificated 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, for any shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, (y) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion, and (z) such other information as the Company or its agents may reasonably request. 
    
    (e)  Upon delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4,  the Company shall issue and send by hand delivery, by courier or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) to the holder thereof or to such holder s designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion.  If there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock only part of which are to be converted, the Company shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder s designee, in the manner set forth in the preceding sentence, a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted. 
  
   345 

(f)  The issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made pursuant to this Section 4 shall be effective (i) in the case of a mandatory conversion of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 4, as of the Release Date; and (ii) in the case of an optional conversion of such shares pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 4, as of the earlier of (A) the delivery to such holder or such holder s designee of the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (B) the commencement of business on the second Business Day after the delivery to the Company or the transfer agent for the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock of the Conversion Notice and all other documentation and certificates required to effect the conversion, as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 4.  On and after the effective date of a conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date.  The Company shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have accrued or have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock if the date on which such dividends are paid is on or after the effective date of conversion of such shares. 
    (g)  The Company shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law. 
    (h)  The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding. 
    (i)  The Company will use its best efforts to cause the listing of the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock prior to distribution to Plan participants on the national securities exchange, if any, upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery. 
    (j)  The Company will pay any and all documentary stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversions of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the Company the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid. 
  
   346 

5.    Redemption At the Option of the Company  .  (a)  The 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable out of assets legally available therefor, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time, at a redemption price per share of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, and (y) the Fair Market Value (as that term is defined in paragraph (d) of this Section 5) per share of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption.  Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Company in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph (c) of this Section 5.  From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue and all rights in respect of such shares of the Company shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price.  Upon payment of the redemption price, such shares shall be deemed to have been transferred to the Company, to be retired as provided in paragraph (a) of Section 1.  If the full cumulative dividends have not been paid, or contemporaneously declared and set aside for payment, on all outstanding shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company may not redeem fewer than all the outstanding shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section 5. 
    (b)  Unless otherwise required by law, notice of any redemption pursuant to this Section 5 will be sent to the holders of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Company or any transfer agent for the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock by hand delivery, by courier, by standard form of telecommunication or by first-class mail (postage prepaid) delivered, sent or mailed, as the case may be, not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption date.  Each such notice shall state:  (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) whether the redemption price shall be paid in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash; (v) in the case of certificated 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (vi) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; and (vii) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised and the manner in which the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock will be determined.  The Company shall redeem shares so called for redemption and not previously converted at the date fixed for redemption and at the redemption price set forth in this Section 5, provided that, in the case of certificated 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, the Company shall not be obligated to pay the redemption price until the certificates for the shares to be redeemed are surrendered (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Company shall so require and the notice shall so state). 
    (c)  The Company, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon redemption of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such Common Stock and cash, any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purposes at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph (d)(ii) of this Section 5) or their Current Market Price, in either case as of the date  
  
   347 

fixed for redemption of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, whichever value will result in the issuance of the greater number of shares of Common Stock to the holder of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock then being redeemed. 
    (d)  For purposes of these resolutions, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    (i)   Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive Trading Days preceding the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined. 
    (ii)   Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Company or any other issue which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period.  The  Fair Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded (other than the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock) or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof on the date as of which the Fair Market Value of the security is to be determined, as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board or a committee thereof.  The  Fair Market Value  of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock for purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 5, and for purposes of paragraph (c) of Section 6 shall mean the fair market value thereof determined by an independent appraiser, appointed by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, as of the date fixed for redemption of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock (in the case of a redemption pursuant to Section 5) or as of the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6 (in the case of a redemption under that section).  For purposes of determining the Fair Market Value of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, the independent appraiser shall assume (i) that all dividends on the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock would have been paid when due, and (ii) that the mandatory conversion of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock held by the Plan into shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof would have occurred when and as payments of principal (together with accrued interest thereon) would have been made by the Trustee of the Plan in accordance with the terms of that certain 2018 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Note Agreement dated on or about January 25, 2018 between the Company and the Plan (including any amendments or modifications thereto). 
    6.    Consolidation, Merger, etc.    (a)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting corporation (including the Company) that constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall, in connection with such consolidation, merger or similar business combination, be assumed by and shall become Preferred Stock of such successor or resulting corporation, having in respect of such corporation,  
  
   348 

insofar as possible, the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by Sections 5 and 6 hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, subject to the following: 
    (1)  After such transaction each share of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by Section 4 hereof, into the number and kind of qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction. 
    (2)  The Company shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless all then outstanding shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting corporation as aforesaid. 
    (b)  If the Company consummates any consolidation or merger or similar business combination, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 6) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, outstanding shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Company or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph (c) of this Section 6), be automatically converted by virtue of such merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time so that each share of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction.  However, if by virtue of the structure of such transaction, a holder of Common Stock is required to make an election with respect to the nature and kind of consideration to be received in such transaction, which election cannot practicably be made by the holders of the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, then the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction.  If the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non-electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares. 
  
   349 

(c)  In the event the Company shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar business combination described in paragraph (b) of this Section 6 (a  Business Combination ), then the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least fifteen (15) Business Days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Company, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Company or the successor of the Company, in redemption and retirement of such 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment per share of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock equal to the higher of (x) $1,000.00, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date of consummation of such transaction or (y) the Fair Market Value per share of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, as of the last Business Day (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 4 hereof) immediately preceding the date the Business Combination is consummated.  No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction, unless the Company or the successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the close of business on the last Business Day prior to consummation of such transaction. 
    
    (d)  In the event that a Purchase Offer (as defined below) shall have been made and shall be continuing, each holder of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the right to convert shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price specified in Section 4(c)(iii)(C) hereof until the date the Purchase Offer is terminated, including without limitation because the original Purchase Offer is withdrawn or because the Purchase Offer has expired and is not renewed, upon notice of such conversion given to the Company not later than the close of business on the date the Purchase Offer terminates (the  Purchase Offer Conversion Period ), unless the Company or any successor of the Company shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of conversion so given may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Company prior to the end of the Purchase Offer Conversion Period. 
    
    For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
    (i)   Beneficial Ownership  shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) and  person  shall have the meanings specified in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act. 
    
    (ii)  A  Purchase Offer  shall have been made when any person (other than the Company or any affiliate of the Company) shall have  commenced  (as such term is defined in Rule 14d-2 under the Exchange Act) a tender offer or exchange offer to purchase shares of Common Stock, such that, upon consummation of such offer, such person would have Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) or the right to acquire Beneficial Ownership, of twenty percent (20%) or more of the voting power of the Company. 
    
    7.    Liquidation Rights  .  (a)  Upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, the holders of the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and  
  
   350 

to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on or set aside for the Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on parity with or senior to the 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution. 
    
    (b)  Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger, consolidation or other business combination of the Company into or with any other corporation, nor the merger, consolidation or other business combination of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation, or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 7. 
    
    (c)  After the payment to the holders of the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock of the full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 7, the holders of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company. 
    
    (d)  In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock upon any dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 7, no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other capital stock of the Company ranking on a parity with the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation, or winding up. 
    
  (e)  Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on parity with or prior to the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 7, but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock upon liquidation shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein. 
    
    8.    Ranking  .  For the purposes of these resolutions, any stock of any series or class or classes of the Company shall be deemed to rank: 
    
    (a)  prior to the shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if the holders of such series or class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or  
  
   351 

winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock; 
    
    (b)  on a parity with shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share, or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock; and 
    
    (c)  junior to shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the Company, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such series or class or classes. 
    
    9.    Priority of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock  .  The shares of 2018 ESOP Preferred Stock will rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, with the Company s 2010 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2011 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2012 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2013 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2014 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2015 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, its 2016 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, and its 2017 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock.   

352 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Designation to be signed by Timothy J. Sloan, its Chief Executive Officer and President, and attested by Jeannine E. Zahn, its Assistant Secretary, on this 23rd day of January, 2018. 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 

By   /s/ Timothy J. Sloan       
  Timothy J. Sloan 
  President and 
  Chief Executive Officer 

Attest: 
    
  /s/ Jeannine E. Zahn       
  Jeannine E. Zahn 
  Assistant Secretary 

[As filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on January 24, 2018] 

353 

</EX-3.A>

<EX-10.A>
 3
 wfc-12312017xex10a.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.A

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10(a) 
    
  Form of Performance Share Award Agreement for Grants on or after February 26, 2018  
  Brackets identify provisions that may vary depending on the particular grant, grant recipient  
  and/or other relevant factor.  
    
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 
  PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT 
    
           1. 
    Award.    Wells Fargo   Company (the  Company ) has awarded you Performance Shares to provide an incentive for you to remain in the employment of the Company or an Affiliate and provide valuable services to the Company or an Affiliate.  The target number of Performance Shares ( Target Award Number ) awarded you is identified as the  Total Granted  on the acknowledgement screen for your grant on this website.  The Target Award Number is subject to upward and downward adjustments based on Company performance during the [  performance period  ] (the  Performance Period ) as set forth on Exhibit A.  The  Final Award Number  is the number of Performance Shares awarded to you under this Award Agreement after adjusting the Target Award Number in accordance with Exhibit A.  This Award Agreement also grants Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided in paragraph 4.  Each Performance Share entitles you to receive one share of Wells Fargo   Company common stock ("Common Stock") contingent upon earning such Performance Share based on the Company performance criteria set forth on Exhibit A, vesting as set forth in paragraph 2 and subject to the other terms and conditions set forth in the Company s Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan, as may be amended from time to time (the  Plan ) and this Award Agreement, including the performance conditions in paragraph 8, [and] Exhibits A and B hereto [and the attached Wells Fargo Agreement Regarding Trade Secrets, Confidential Information, Non-Solicitation and Assignment of Inventions].  
       
           2. 
    Vesting.     Except as otherwise provided in this Award Agreement, the Final Award Number of Performance Shares will vest on the Determination Date as set forth on Exhibit A ( Determination Date ), subject to the performance conditions in paragraph 8, which apply through the Settlement Date.  Shares of Common Stock will be issued to you or, in case of your death, your Beneficiary determined in accordance with the Plan.  You will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to your Performance Shares (including any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) until settlement.  However, you may be entitled to dividend equivalents as set forth in paragraph 4.  Except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this Award Agreement, vested Performance Shares will be settled and distributed in shares of Common Stock on [  applicable   date] (the  Settlement Date ). 
       
           3. 
    Termination.      
       
           (a) 
    If prior to [  end of Performance Period  ] you cease to be an Employee due to your death, the Target Award Number of Performance Shares under this Award Agreement after giving effect to any Net Operating Loss adjustments determined in accordance with Exhibit A for any years in the Performance Period completed prior to the year in which you die (and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest upon the date of your death and will be distributed to your Beneficiary in shares of Common Stock between January 2 and March 1 of the year following the year in which you die.  If you cease to be an Employee due to your death on or after [  end of Performance Period  ] and prior to the Determination Date, the Final Award Number of Performance Shares under this Award Agreement (and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will vest upon the Determination Date and will be distributed to your Beneficiary on [  applicable date  ].  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if by the applicable last payment date set forth herein your Beneficiary has not presented evidence deemed satisfactory by the Company to allow transfer of the shares of Common Stock to the Beneficiary under applicable laws, the Company may treat all Performance Shares awarded hereby as forfeited, in which  
     
   1 

case the Company shall have no obligation to issue shares of Common Stock or benefits in lieu of such shares to your Beneficiary and shall have no liability therefor. 
    
           (b) 
    If prior to the Determination Date you have an involuntary Separation from Service due to [(i)] application of the Company s Extended Absence Policy to you in connection with a Disability[, (ii) your displacement and receipt of an immediate lump sum severance benefit, placement on a Salary Continuation Leave of Absence or placement on another leave of absence which will result in your receipt of a severance benefit in connection with that leave, or (iii) the Company or an Affiliate entering into a corporate transaction with another company (the  buyer ) (including a transaction where the buyer acquires all or any portion of the assets, stock or operations of the Company or Affiliate) and pursuant to the terms of the transaction you are continuing in employment with the buyer after completion of the transaction], then the Final Award Number of Performance Shares under this Award Agreement (and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will vest upon the Determination Date and will be distributed to you (or your Beneficiary if you have died before such distribution) in shares of Common Stock on [  applicable date  ], subject to the performance conditions in paragraphs 7 and 8 below.  For purposes of this Award, the term  Separation from Service  is determined by the Company in accordance with Section 409A (as defined in paragraph 12 below) and in accordance with the definition set forth on Exhibit B to this Award Agreement, which definition is incorporated by reference herein.  For purposes of this Award, the term  Disability  is defined as set forth on Exhibit B to this Award Agreement, which definition is incorporated by reference herein.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you die following any such involuntary Separation from Service and prior to [  end     of     Performance Period  ], the Target Award Number of Performance Shares under this Award Agreement after giving effect to any Net Operating Loss adjustments determined in accordance with Exhibit A for any years in the Performance Period completed prior to the year in which you die (and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest and will be distributed to your Beneficiary in accordance with paragraph 3(a) above. 
       
           (c) 
    [If prior to the Determination Date, the Affiliate that employs you incurs a Change in Control and you continue employment with the buyer immediately after the Change in Control, then the Final Award Number of Performance Shares under this Award Agreement (and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will continue to vest upon the Determination Date and will be distributed to you (or your Beneficiary if you have died before such distribution) in shares of Common Stock on [  applicable date  ], subject to the conditions and restrictions in paragraphs 7 and 8 below.  For purposes of this Award, the term  Change in Control  is defined as set forth on Exhibit B to this Award Agreement, which definition is incorporated by reference herein.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you die following such event and prior to [  end of Performance Period  ], the Target Award Number of Performance Shares under this Award Agreement after giving effect to any Net Operating Loss adjustments determined in accordance with Exhibit A for any years in the Performance Period completed prior to the year in which you die (and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest and will be distributed to your Beneficiary in accordance with paragraph 3(a) above.] 
       
           (d) 
    [If prior to the Determination Date you have a Separation from Service for a reason other than Cause and you have satisfied the definition of Retirement under the Plan on your Separation from Service date or you satisfy the definition of Retirement following your Separation from Service date at the end of an approved leave of absence not to exceed six months, the Final Award Number of Performance Shares under this Award Agreement (and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will continue to vest upon the Determination Date and will be distributed to you (or your Beneficiary if you have died before such distribution) in shares of Common Stock on [  applicable date  ] subject to the conditions and restrictions in paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 below, and provided that beginning immediately after you cease to be an Employee and continuing until the Determination Date you satisfy each of the following conditions ( vesting conditions ): (i) you comply with the terms of the attached Wells Fargo Agreement Regarding Trade Secrets, Confidential Information, Non-Solicitation and Assignment of Inventions, which agreement is incorporated by reference herein, (ii) you do not express any derogatory or damaging statements about the Company or any Affiliate, the management or the board of directors of the Company or any Affiliate, the products, services or the business condition of the Company or any Affiliate in any public way or to  
     
   2 

anyone who could make those statements public, and (iii) to the fullest extent enforceable under the applicable state law, you do not perform services as an officer, director, employee, consultant or otherwise for any business which is in competition with any line of business of the Company or any Affiliate for which you had executive responsibilities while you were employed by the Company or any Affiliate (including predecessors thereof) and which does business in any location in the geographic footprint of the Company or any Affiliate in which you had executive responsibilities.  For purposes of this Award, the term  Cause  is defined as set forth on Exhibit B to this Award Agreement, which definition is incorporated by reference herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you die following your Retirement and prior to [  end of Performance Period  ] and have satisfied the vesting conditions set forth above through your date of death, the Target Award Number of Performance Shares under this Award Agreement after giving effect to any Net Operating Loss adjustments determined in accordance with Exhibit A for any years in the Performance Period completed prior to the year in which you die (and any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest and will be distributed to your Beneficiary in accordance with paragraph 3(a) above. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this Award Agreement prohibits or restricts you (or your attorney) from initiating communications directly with, or responding to any inquiry from, or providing testimony before, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the National Labor Relations Board, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, or any self regulatory organization or governmental authority charged with the enforcement of any laws.] 
           (e) 
    If you incur a Separation from Service other than for a reason described in paragraph 3(a), [or] 3(b), [3(c) or 3(d),] or you fail to comply with any applicable vesting condition [(including the vesting conditions set forth in paragraph 3(d))], any then unvested Performance Shares awarded hereby (including any Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately terminate without notice to you and will be forfeited.  For avoidance of doubt, a  Separation from Service other than as described in paragraph 3(a), [or] 3(b)[, 3(c) or 3(d)]  includes, without limitation, a voluntary Separation from Service [that does not constitute a Retirement] and an involuntary Separation from Service [for Cause] [other than due to death or application of the Company s Extended Absence Policy to you in connection with Disability]. 
       
           4. 
    Dividend Equivalents.    During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on the Settlement Date for the Performance Shares or the date the Performance Shares are forfeited, whichever occurs first, if the Company pays a dividend on the Common Stock, you will automatically receive, as of the payment date for such dividend, dividend equivalents in the form of additional Performance Shares based on the amount or number of shares that would have been paid on the Final Award Number of Performance Shares (or the NOL Adjusted Target Award Number of Performance Shares as applicable under paragraphs 3(a)[, and] 3(b)[, 3(c) and 3(d)]) had they been issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the record date and, if a cash dividend, the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange as of the dividend payment date.  You will also automatically receive dividend equivalents with respect to such additional Performance Shares, to be determined in the same manner.  Performance Shares granted with respect to dividend equivalents will be subject to the same vesting schedule and other terms and conditions as the underlying Performance Shares, including the Company s right of recoupment or forfeiture, and will be distributed in shares of Common Stock when, and if, the underlying Performance Shares are settled and distributed. 
       
           5. 
    Tax Withholding.    The Company will withhold from the number of shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable hereunder (including with respect to dividend equivalents) a number of shares necessary to satisfy any and all applicable federal, state, local and foreign tax withholding obligations and employment-related tax requirements ( Tax-Related Items ).  In addition, the Company (or your employer, if different) will withhold from your compensation any and all applicable Tax-Related Items in the event all or a portion of the Performance Shares are treated as taxable prior to or other than on the vesting date set forth in paragraph 2 above and the number of shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable (if any) is insufficient to satisfy such Tax-Related Items withholding obligations.  Finally, you shall pay to the Company (or your employer, if different) any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or your employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation  
     
   3 

in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the shares of Common Stock if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items. 
           6. 
    Nontransferable.    Unless the Committee provides otherwise, (i) no rights under this Award will be assignable or transferable, and neither you nor your Beneficiary will have any power to anticipate, alienate, dispose of, pledge or encumber any rights under this Award, and (ii) the rights and the benefits of this Award may be exercised and received during your lifetime only by you or your legal representative. 
       
           7. 
    Other Restrictions; Amendment.    The issuance of Common Stock hereunder is subject to compliance by the Company and you with all legal requirements applicable thereto, including compliance with the requirements of 12 C.F.R. Part 359 and tax withholding obligations, and with all applicable regulations of any stock exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed at the time of issuance.  For the avoidance of doubt, regulatory approval under Part 359 is required for the issuance of Common Stock hereunder in certain circumstances, and the Company cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to request such approval in accordance with the requirements of Part 359 or that any requested approval will be received.  Subject to paragraphs 12 and 13 below, the Committee may, in its sole discretion and without your consent, reduce, delay vesting, modify, revoke, cancel, impose additional conditions and restrictions on or recover all or a portion of this Award if the Committee deems it necessary or advisable to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations.  This Award is subject to any applicable recoupment or  clawback  policies of the Company, as in effect from time to time, and any applicable recoupment or clawback requirements imposed under laws, rules and regulations. 
       
           8. 
    Performance Conditions.    The Award is fully conditioned on and subject to performance adjustments, which include the right of the Committee to cause you to forfeit all or any unpaid portion of an Award, if the Committee determines in its sole discretion that: 
                
    You engage in misconduct which has or might reasonably be expected to have reputational or other harm to the Company or any conduct that constitutes Cause;  
                
    You engage in misconduct or commit a material error that causes or might reasonably be expected to cause significant financial or reputational harm to the Company or your business group; 
                
    The Award was based on materially inaccurate performance metrics, whether or not you were responsible for the inaccuracy; 
                
    You improperly or with gross negligence, including in a supervisory capacity, fail to identify,  escalate, monitor, or manage, in a timely manner and as reasonably expected, risks material to the Company or your business group; or 
                
    The Company or your business group suffers a material downturn in its financial performance or suffers a material failure of risk management.  
     The Committee may consider any factors it determines necessary or appropriate for purposes of making a determination whether a performance adjustment is appropriate and the amount of the adjustment based on the particular facts and circumstances.  All determinations by the Committee will be final and binding. 
           9. 
    Stock Ownership Provision  .    In accordance with the terms of the Company s stock ownership policy, as may be amended from time to time: (a) if you are an Executive Officer of the Company or a member of its Operating Committee, as a condition to receiving this Award, you agree to hold, while employed by the Company or any Affiliate and for a period of one year after your Retirement, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to at least 50% of the after-tax shares of Common Stock (assuming a 50% tax rate) acquired upon vesting and settlement of Company stock-based awards or pursuant to the exercise of Company stock options (if applicable), subject to a maximum holding requirement of shares with a value equal to ten (10) times your cash salary; and (b)  if you are not an Executive Officer or member of the Operating Committee, you are expected to hold that number of shares while employed by the Company or any Affiliate. 
              10. 
    Additional Provisions.    This Award Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Plan.  Capitalized terms not defined in this Award Agreement or by reference to another document are used as defined in the Plan.  If the Plan and this Award Agreement conflict, the provisions of the Plan will govern.  Interpretations of the Plan and this Award Agreement by the Committee are binding on you and the Company. 
     
   4 

11. 
    No Employment Agreement.    Neither the award to you of the Performance Shares nor the delivery to you of this Award Agreement or any other document relating to the Performance Shares will confer on you the right to continued employment with the Company or any Affiliate.  You understand that your employment with the Company or any Affiliate is  at will  and nothing in this document changes, alters or modifies your  at will  status or your obligation to comply with all policies, procedures and rules of the Company, as they may be adopted or amended from time to time. 
              12. 
    Section 409A  .  This Award is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the applicable Treasury regulations or other binding guidance thereunder ( Section 409A ).  Accordingly, all provisions included in this Award Agreement, or incorporated by reference, will be interpreted and administered in accordance with that intent.  If any provision of the Plan or this Award Agreement would otherwise conflict with or frustrate this intent, that provision will be interpreted and deemed amended or limited so as to avoid the conflict; provided, however, that the Company makes no representation that the Award is exempt from or complies with Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the Award. The Company will have no liability to you or to any other party if the Award or payment of the Award that is intended to be compliant with Section 409A is not so compliant or for any action taken by the Committee with respect thereto. 
              13. 
    Six-month Delay  .      Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or this Award Agreement to the contrary, if, upon your Separation from Service for any reason, the Company determines that you are a  Specified Employee  as defined in Section 409A and in accordance with the definition set forth on Exhibit B to this Award Agreement, which definition is incorporated by reference herein, your Performance Shares, if subject to settlement upon your Separation from Service and if required pursuant to Section 409A, will not settle before the date that is the first business day following the six-month anniversary of such Separation from Service, or, if earlier, upon your death. 
              14. 
    No Fractional Shares.    The number of Performance Shares to be distributed to you under this Award Agreement will be rounded down to the nearest whole share. 
              15. 
    Severability and Judicial Modification.    If any provision of this Award Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable under pertinent state law or otherwise or the Company elects not to enforce such restriction, the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect and the invalid or unenforceable provision shall be modified only to the extent necessary to render that provision valid and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.  If the invalid or unenforceable provision cannot be, or is not, modified, that provision shall be severed from this Award Agreement and all other provisions shall remain valid and enforceable. 
              16. 
    Applicable Law.    This Award Agreement and the award of Performance Shares evidenced hereby will be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Delaware (without regard to its choice-of-law provisions), except to the extent Federal law would apply. 
              17. 
    Imposition of Other Requirements.    The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Award and on any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with applicable law or facilitate the administration of the Plan and provided the imposition of the term or condition will not result in adverse accounting expense to the Company, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. 
              18. 
    Electronic Delivery and Acceptance.   The Company is electronically delivering documents related to current or future participation in the Plan and is requesting your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means.  You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through the current plan administrator s on-line system, or any other on-line system or electronic means that the Company may decide, in its sole discretion, to use in the future. 
              19. 
    Entire Agreement.    The Plan is incorporated herein by reference.  The Plan and this Award Agreement (including Exhibits A and B attached hereto) constitute the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the Award and supersede in their entirety all prior proposals, undertakings and agreements, written or oral, and all other communications between you and the Company with respect to the Award. 
       
  [Insert requirement to acknowledge and accept grant terms] 
  
   5 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 
  PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT 
    
  Exhibit A to Performance Share Award Agreement 
    
  This Exhibit A sets forth the manner in which the Final Award Number will be determined. 
    
  Definitions 
    
  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein (including, but not limited to, Return on Realized Common Equity) shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Award Agreement.  In addition, the following terms used in the text of this Exhibit A shall have the meanings set forth below: 
    
   Average Return on Realized Common Equity  means for each of the Financial Performance Group Companies the sum of such company s Return on Realized Common Equity for each of the 12-month periods ending [  applicable dates during the Performance Period  ], which sum is then divided by [  applicable     divisor  ], rounded to two decimals. 
    
   Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking  means the rank of the Company s Average Return on Realized Common Equity relative to the Average Return on Realized Common Equity achieved by each of the other Financial Performance Group Companies.   
    
   Final Award Number Percentage  means the  Final Award Number Percentage  determined in accordance with the Determination of Final Award Number section of this Exhibit A. 
    
   Financial Performance Group Companies  means, in addition to the Company, the companies listed below provided that any such company for which financial data as of [  end of Performance Period  ], is not publicly available shall be eliminated as a Financial Performance Group Company. 
    
  [  Financial     Performance Group Companies  ] 
    
   Net Operating Loss  means for any year in the Performance Period a loss that results from adjusting a net loss as reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements to eliminate the effect of the following items, each determined based on generally accepted accounting principles: (1) losses resulting from discontinued operations; (2) the cumulative effect of changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and (3) any other unusual or infrequent loss which is separately identified and quantified. 
    
   Company Total Stockholder Return Ranking  means the rank of the Company s Total Stockholder Return relative to the Total Stockholder Return achieved by each of the other [Financial Performance Group Companies] [Stockholder Return Group Companies]. 
    
  [ Stockholder Return Group Companies  means, in addition to the Company, the companies listed below provided that any such company for which financial data as of [  end of Performance Period  ] is not publicly available shall be eliminated as a Stockholder Return Group Company.] 
    
  [  Stockholder     Return     Group     Companies  ] 
    
   Total Stockholder Return  means for each of the [Financial Performance Group Companies] [Stockholder Return Group Companies] (a)(i) the company s [  applicable period  ] average closing price of a share of common stock (as reported in The Wall Street Journal or such other reliable source as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion), with the last of such [  applicable period  ], plus the value of any dividends declared on such common stock in respect of an [  applicable date  ], as adjusted assuming such dividends were reinvested in shares of common stock of the company on such [  applicable date  ], minus (ii) the company s [  applicable period  ] average  
  
   6 

closing price of a share of common stock (as reported in The Wall Street Journal or such other reliable source as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion), for the [  applicable period  ] ( Base Price ), divided by (b) the Base Price (in each case, with such adjustments as are appropriate, in the judgment of the Committee in its sole discretion, to equitably calculate Total Stockholder Return in light of any stock splits, reverse stock splits, stock dividends, and other extraordinary transactions or other changes in the capital structure of the company, as applicable).    
    
  Determination of Final Award Number 
    
  Net Operating Loss Adjustments  .  If the Company incurs a Net Operating Loss for any year in the Performance Period, the Target Award Number will be reduced by one-third for each such year, effective upon certification by the Committee of a Net Operating Loss for such year.  The Target Award Number after giving effect to each such Net Operating Loss adjustment is referred to herein as the  NOL Adjusted Target Award Number.   If the Company does not incur a Net Operating Loss in any year in the Performance Period, your NOL Adjusted Target Award Number will be the same as your Target Award Number.      
    
  RORCE Adjustment  .  The NOL Adjusted Target Award Number will be adjusted upward or downward depending on the Company s Average Return on Realized Common Equity performance over the Performance Period as follows:  
    
           1. 
    Absolute RORCE  .  If the Company Average Return on Realized Common Equity is equal to or greater than [  applicable %  ], your Final Award Number will be determined by multiplying the NOL Adjusted Target Award Number by [  applicable %  ].  If the Company Average Return on Realized Common Equity is less than [  applicable %  ], your Final Award Number will be [  applicable % or other applicable number  ]. 
       
           2. 
    Relative RORCE  .  If the Company Average Return on Realized Common Equity is less than [  applicable %  ] but equal to or greater than [  applicable %  ], the Final Award Number will be determined by the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking in accordance with the chart below to calculate your Final Award Number of Performance Shares.  The Final Award Number of Performance Shares will be determined by multiplying (i) the Final Award Number Percentage (rounded to the nearest whole percent) by (ii) your NOL Adjusted Target Award Number.  Each Final Award Number Percentage in the chart below will be based on the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking in each quartile among the Financial Performance Group Companies and apply to the lowest ranking percentile in each quartile that is equal to or greater than the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking percentile shown.      
       
                   Company Return on Realized   Common Equity Ranking 
    Final Award Number   Percentage 
    Final Award Number of 
     Performance Shares 
      [  applicable ranking  ] 
    [  applicable %  ] 
    [  applicable %  ] x NOL Adjusted Target Award Number 
      [  applicable ranking  ] 
    [  applicable %  ] 
    [  applicable %  ] x NOL Adjusted Target Award Number 
      [  applicable ranking  ] 
    [  applicable %  ] 
    [  applicable %  ] x NOL Adjusted Target Award Number 
      --- 
    [  applicable %  ] 
    [  applicable %  ] x NOL Adjusted Target Award Number 

If the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is [  applicable ranking range  ], the Final Award Number Percentage shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between [  applicable percentage range  ] and the Final Award Number of Performance Shares shall be interpolated on a corresponding straight-line basis between [  applicable percentage range  ] of the NOL Adjusted Target Award Number, but in no event will the Final Award Number Percentage exceed [  applicable percentage  ] unless the Company Total Stockholder Return Ranking is [  applicable percentage range  ]. 
    
  If the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is [  applicable ranking range  ], the Final Award Number Percentage shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between [  applicable percentage range  ] and  
  
   7 

the Final Award Number of Performance Shares shall be interpolated on a corresponding straight-line basis between [  applicable percentage range  ] of the NOL Adjusted Target Award Number.   
    
  If the Company does not have the lowest Average Return on Realized Common Equity among the Financial Performance Group Companies and the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is [  applicable ranking range  ], the Final Award Number Percentage shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between [  applicable percentage range  ] and the Final Award Number of Performance Shares shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between [  applicable percentage range  ] of the NOL Adjusted Target Award Number.   
    
  In no event shall the Final Award Number Percentage be greater than [  applicable percentage  ] nor shall the Final Award Number of Performance Shares be greater than [  applicable percentage  ] of the NOL Adjusted Target Award Number.  If the Company Total Stockholder Return Ranking is below the [  applicable percentage   range], in no event shall the Final Award Number Percentage be greater than [  applicable   percentage] nor shall the Final Award Number of Performance Shares be greater than [  applicable percentage  ] of the NOL Adjusted Target Award Number. 
    
  As provided in paragraph 4, you will be entitled to receive Performance Shares with respect to dividend equivalents on the Final Award Number (or the Target Award Number, as applicable and as may be adjusted under paragraphs 3(a), [and] 3(b)[, 3(c) and 3(d)]) to determine the total number of Performance Shares that will be distributed to you upon settlement. 
    
  Committee Determination 
    
  The Committee shall determine the Final Award Number of Performance Shares after the end of the Performance Period and not later than [  applicable date  ] and the date the Committee makes such determination is referred to in this Award as the  Determination Date.   The Committee shall make all determinations in calculating the Final Award Number of Performance Shares and the Committee s determination shall be binding. 

8 

WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 
  PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT 
    
  Exhibit B to Performance Share Award Agreement 
    
  Cause 
    
   Cause  means (1) the continued failure by you to substantially perform your duties; (2) your conviction of a crime involving dishonesty or breach of trust, conviction of a felony, or commission of any act that makes you ineligible for coverage under the Company s fidelity bond or otherwise makes you ineligible for continued employment; or (3) your violation of the Company s policies, including but not limited to Wells Fargo s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (or the Code applicable to your line of business), Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, Information Security Policies, and Risk Management Accountability Policy.  For the avoidance of doubt, an event or conduct constituting Cause could take place before or after your termination of employment. 
    
  [  Change in Control 
    
   Change in Control  means a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company or the Affiliate that employs you, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company or the Affiliate that employs you within the meaning of Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(i)(5) as determined by the Company.] 
    
  Disability 
    
  You will be considered to have a  Disability  if you are (1) receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under the Company s or an Affiliate s long-term disability plan as a result of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months; or (2) determined by the Social Security Administration to be eligible for social security disability benefits.  
    
  Separation from Service  
    
  A  Separation from Service  occurs upon your death, retirement or other termination of employment or other event that qualifies as a  separation from service  under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and the applicable regulations thereunder as in effect from time to time.  The Company shall determine in each case when a Separation from Service has occurred, which determination shall be made in a manner consistent with Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h).  The Company shall determine that a Separation from Service has occurred as of a certain date when the facts and circumstances indicate that the Company (or an Affiliate, if applicable) and you reasonably anticipate that, after that date, you will render no further services, or your level of bona fide services (either as an employee or independent contractor) will permanently decrease to a level that is 20% or less than the average level of your bona fide services (either as an employee or independent contractor) previously in effect for you over the immediately preceding 36-month period (or your entire period of service, if you have been providing services for less than 36 months). 
    
  The following presumptions shall also apply to all such determinations: 
    
           (1) 
    Transfers  .  A Separation from Service has not occurred upon your transfer of employment from the Company to an Affiliate or vice versa, or from an Affiliate to another Affiliate. 
       
           (2) 
    Medical leave of absence  .  Where you have a medical leave of absence due to any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than six months, and you have not returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, a Separation from Service has occurred on the earlier of:  (A) the first day on which you would not be considered  disabled  under any disability policy of the Company or Affiliate under which you are then receiving a benefit; or (B) the first day on which your medical leave of absence period exceeds 29 months. 
     
   9 

(3) 
    Military leave of absence  .  Where you have a military leave of absence, and you have not returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, a Separation from Service has occurred on the day next following the last day on which you are entitled to reemployment rights under USERRA. 
       
           (4) 
    Salary continuation leave  .  A Separation from Service has occurred on the first day of your salary continuation leave taken under the Company s Salary Continuation Pay Plan. 
       
           (5) 
    Other leaves of absence  .  In the event that you are on a bona fide leave of absence, not otherwise described in this definition, from which you have not returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, your Separation from Service has occurred on the first day on which your leave of absence period exceeds six months or, if earlier, upon your termination of employment (provided that such termination of employment constitutes a Separation from Service in accordance with the last sentence of the first paragraph of this definition). 
       
           (6) 
    Asset purchase transaction  .  If, in connection with the sale or other disposition of substantial assets (such as a division or substantially all assets of a trade or business) of the Company or an Affiliate to an unrelated buyer, you become an employee of the buyer or an affiliate of the buyer upon the closing of or in connection with such transaction, a Separation from Service has not occurred if the Company and the buyer have specified that such transaction will not, with respect to any individual affected by such transaction who becomes an employee of the buyer or an affiliate, be considered a  separation from service  under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h), and such specification meets the requirements of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h)(4). 
       
  Specified Employee 
    
  A  Specified Employee  means: 
    
           (1)  
    Any Participant who is a  key employee  under Internal Revenue Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii) (applied in accordance with the regulations thereunder and disregarding Internal Revenue Code Section 416(i)(5)) at any time during the 12-month period ending on the specified employee identification date. For purposes of determining  key employee  status under Internal Revenue Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), except as required under such provision and the regulations thereunder, the term  officer  shall refer to an employee of the Company or an Affiliate with the title Senior Vice President or above, and  
       
           (2)  
    Any participant who served as a member of the Company s Management Committee at any time during the 12-month period ending on the specified employee identification date.   
       
  For purposes of applying Internal Revenue Code section 409A, the  specified employee identification date  is each December 31.  Any person described in (1) or (2) above on a specified employee identification date shall be treated as a Specified Employee for the entire 12-month period beginning on the following April 1.   
    
  Notwithstanding the above, in the event of a corporate transaction to which the Company or an Affiliate is a party, the Company may, in its discretion, establish a method for determining Specified Employees pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(i)(6).   

10 

[Wells Fargo Agreement Regarding Trade Secrets,  
  Confidential Information, Non-Solicitation and Assignment of Inventions 

I. Introduction    
  In consideration for the Performance Share Award granted to me by Wells Fargo   Company on [  insert date  ], on the terms and conditions contained in the Performance Share Award Agreement ( Performance Share Award Agreement ), I acknowledge that the nature of my employment with and performance of services for Wells Fargo   Company and its affiliates (the  Company ) permits me to have access to certain of its trade secrets and confidential and proprietary information and that such information is, and shall always remain, the sole property of the Company. Any unauthorized disclosure or use of this information would be wrongful and would cause the Company irreparable harm. I also acknowledge that if in the course of my employment I develop Inventions (as defined herein), I agree that the property rights of such inventions belong to the Company and agree to assist, as may be necessary, with the assignment of these Inventions to the Company.  Therefore, I agree as follows:  
    
  II.  Confidential Information    
  During the course of my employment I will acquire knowledge of the Company s Confidential Information.  The Company s Confidential Information includes the following: 
    
  Trade Secrets  :    Trade Secrets  shall be defined under the Uniform Trade Secrets Act (the  UTSA ), as may be amended from time to time.  If the UTSA is not recognized by a state or jurisdiction that is interpreting this agreement,  Trade Secrets  is defined as information, including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique, or process, that: (1) derives independent economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known to and not being readily ascertainable by proper means by, other persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and (2) is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.  
    
  Proprietary Information  :   
             
    The names, address, and contact information of the Company s customers and prospective customers, as well as any other personal or financial information relating to any customer or prospect, including, without limitation, account numbers, balances, portfolios, maturity and/or expiration or renewal dates, loans, policies, investment activities, purchasing practices, insurance, annuity policies and objectives; 

Any information concerning the Company s operations, including without limitation, information related to its methods, services, pricing, costs, margins and mark ups, finances, practices, strategies, business plans, agreements, decision-making, systems, technology, policies, procedures, marketing, sales, techniques, agent information, and processes; and 

Any other proprietary and/or confidential information relating to the Company s customers, products, services, sales, technologies, or business affairs. 
       
  Company Records  : The records, documents, files and archives of the Company and include, but are not limited to, original, duplicated, computerized, memorized, handwritten or any other form of information, whether contained in materials provided to me by the Company, or by any institution acquired by the Company, or compiled by me in any form or manner including information in documents or electronic devices, such as software, flowcharts, graphs, spreadsheets, resource manuals, videotapes, calendars, day timers, planners, rolodexes, or telephone directories maintained in personal computers, laptop computers, personal digital assistants or any other device. 
    
  Personnel Records  : Personal information about Company employees contained in the Company s records and to which access is restricted and granted only for purposes of performing and evaluating job duties. 
    
  Confidential Information  :   Confidential Information  includes (comprises) Trade Secrets, Proprietary Information, Company Records and Personnel Records. 
    
  I understand that my obligation to maintain the confidentiality of all Confidential Information continues at all times  
  
   11 

during and after my employment.  Confidential Information does not become any less confidential or proprietary to the Company because I may commit some of it to memory or because I may otherwise maintain this information outside of the Company s offices.  
    
  I agree that any Confidential Information of the Company is to be used by me solely and exclusively for the purpose of conducting business on behalf of the Company. I am expected to keep such Confidential Information confidential and not to divulge, use or disclose this information except for that purpose. If I resign or am terminated from my employment for any reason, I agree to immediately return to the Company all Company Records and Confidential Information, including information maintained by me in my office, outside of the office, in personal electronic devices, and in any format or storage system. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, I understand that nothing contained in this Agreement prohibits or restricts me (or my attorney) from initiating communications directly with, or responding to any inquiry from, or providing testimony before, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the National Labor Relations Board, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, or any self-regulatory organization or governmental authority charged with the enforcement of any laws. 
    
  III. Non-Solicitation of Company s Employees and Customers 
  I agree that for the period beginning on my termination date with the Company through the greater of (i) the period beginning on my termination date through the Determination Date as defined in the Performance Share Award Agreement or (ii) the one-year period following my termination date ( the Non-Solicitation Period ), I will not do any of the following, either directly or indirectly or through associates, agents, or employees:   
    
           a. 
    solicit, recruit  or promote the solicitation or recruitment of any employee or consultant of the Company for the purpose of encouraging that employee or consultant to leave the Company s employ or sever an agreement for services; or  
       
           b. 
    to the fullest extent enforceable under the applicable state law, solicit, participate in or promote the solicitation of any of the Company's clients, customers, or prospective customers with whom I had Material Contact and/or regarding whom I received Confidential Information, for the purpose of providing products or services ( Competitive Products/Services ).   Material Contact  means interaction between me and the customer, client or prospective customer within one (1) year prior to my Separation of Service (as defined in the Performance Award Agreement) which takes place to manage, service or further the business relationship. 
       
  This limitation is not intended to limit the Company s right to prevent misappropriation of its Confidential Information beyond the Non-Solicitation Period.     
    
  IV.  Assignment of Inventions 
    
  I agree to disclose to the Company promptly in writing complete information regarding all Inventions that I make, conceive or first reduce to practice (alone or in conjunction with others) during my employment with the Company. For the purposes of this Assignment, the term  Invention  means any invention, discovery, design, formula, modification, improvement, new idea, business method, process, algorithm, software program, know how or trade secret, or other work or concept, whether recorded in a written document, electronically or not recorded at all and whether or not copyrightable or patentable.  
    
  The categories of Inventions that are subject to this assignment are: (1) all Inventions that relate at the time of conception or reduction to practice of the Invention to the Company s business, or actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development of the Company whether or not I made, conceived or first reduced the Inventions to practice during normal working hours; and (2) all Inventions involving the use of any time, material, information, or facility of the Company.  
    
  I acknowledge and agree that all Inventions and all worldwide intellectual property rights therein are owned by the Company. All intellectual property rights in the Inventions shall vest in the Company on the date such Inventions are created, conceived, reduced to practice, actually or constructively, or reduced to a tangible medium of expression,  
  
   12 

whichever occurs first. Without limiting the foregoing, I agree that if any Inventions are copyrightable and fall within the definition of a  work made for hire  as defined in 17 U.S.C.  101 and  201(b), such Inventions will be considered  works made for hire  and all copyrights and copyright registrations related to such copyrightable Inventions will be the sole and exclusive property of the Company. If, and to the extent that, all intellectual property rights in any Inventions do not vest in the Company, I hereby irrevocably grant and assign, and agree to assign, to the Company without reservation, all of my worldwide ownership rights, title and interest in and to all Inventions and all present and future intellectual property rights in such Inventions, and irrevocably waive all moral rights in, and other intellectual property rights to, all Inventions. 
    
  By entering into this Assignment, I understand that I am not conveying any rights in Inventions I may have made, conceived or first reduced to practice before my employment with the Company ( Prior Inventions ). If I claim ownership in any Prior Inventions, I have identified and provided a non-confidential description of each such Prior Invention in the space provided below (and on additional pages as necessary): 

I further agree, without charge and at the Company s expense, to give the Company all assistance it reasonably requires to evidence, establish, maintain, perfect, protect, and use the rights to the Inventions I have assigned to it. In particular, but without limitation, I agree to sign all documents, supply all information, and provide all written or oral testimony that the Company may deem necessary or desirable to: (i) transfer or record the transfer of my entire right, title, and interest in the assigned Inventions; (ii) enable the Company to obtain patent protection for such Inventions anywhere in the world; and (iii) protect and enforce Company s rights in the Inventions and the intellectual property rights therein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, I hereby irrevocably appoint Wells Fargo as attorney in fact (coupled with an interest) to execute any such documents. 
    
  V. Defend Trade Secrets Act Notice 
  I acknowledge and agree that nothing in this Agreement is intended to discourage or restrict me from reporting any theft of Trade Secrets pursuant to the Defend Trade Secrets Act of 2016 (the  DTSA ) or other applicable state or federal law.  The DTSA prohibits retaliation against an employee because of whistleblower activity in connection with the disclosure of Trade Secrets, so long as any such disclosure is made either (A) in confidence to an attorney or a federal, state, or local government official and solely to report or investigate a suspected violation of the law, or (B) under seal in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other proceeding. Nothing in this Agreement shall limit, curtail or diminish the Company s statutory rights under the DTSA, any applicable state law regarding trade secrets or common law. 
    
  VI. Employment At Will 
  I understand that my employment with the Company is  at will  which means; (1) the Company and I both have the right to terminate my employment at any time, with or without advance notice and with or without cause and, (2) the Company has the right to change policies and terms and conditions of my employment at any time. I also understand that nothing in this Agreement changes, alters or modifies my  at will  status or my obligation to comply with all policies, procedures and rules of the Company, as they may be adopted or amended from time to time. My employment at will status may not be changed except in writing, signed by me and an officer of the Company at the level of executive vice president or higher, authorized by the senior Human Resource Manager for my business group.  
    
  VII. Injunctive Relief   Damages 
  Recognizing the irreparable nature of the injury that could be done by my violation of this Agreement and that money damages alone would be inadequate compensation to the Company, it is agreed that any violation of this Agreement by me should be the proper subject for immediate injunctive relief, specific performance and other equitable relief which shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any other remedies and damages to the Company may recover.  
    
  VIII. Partial Invalidity    
  If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the  
  
   13 

remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and the invalid or unenforceable provision shall be modified only to the extent necessary to render that provision valid and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.  If the invalid or unenforceable provision cannot be modified, that provision shall be severed from the Agreement and all other provisions shall remain valid and enforceable.  
    
  IX. Choice of Law/Integration/Survival    
  This Agreement and any dispute, controversy or claim which arises under or relates in any way to it shall be governed by the law of the state where the incident(s) giving rise to the dispute or claim arose. This Agreement supersedes any prior written or verbal agreements pertaining to the subject matter herein, and is intended to be a final expression of our Agreement with respect only to the terms contained herein. There may be no modification of this Agreement except in writing signed by me and an executive officer of the Company.  This Agreement shall survive my employment by the Company, inure to the benefit of successors and assigns of the Company, and is binding upon my heirs and legal representatives.  
    
  Acknowledgement 
    
  I acknowledge that I have read, understand, and received a copy of this Agreement, and will abide by its terms. 

] 
  [Name of Executive]                    Date 
    
  End of Form of Performance Share Award Agreement 
  For Grants on or after February 26, 2018 

14 

Form of Restricted Share Rights Award Agreement for Grants on or after December 14, 2017  
  Brackets identify provisions that may vary depending on the particular grant, grant recipient  
  and/or other relevant factor.  
    
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
  LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 
  RESTRICTED SHARE RIGHTS AWARD AGREEMENT 

Grant Date:    [applicable date] 

1. 
    Award.    To encourage your continued employment with the Company or any Affiliate and to motivate you to help the Company increase stockholder value over the long term, Wells Fargo   Company (the  Company ) has awarded you the number of Restricted Share Rights as set forth on the acknowledgement screen for your grant on this website     (the  Award ).  Each Restricted Share Right entitles you to receive one share of Wells Fargo   Company common stock ("Common Stock") contingent upon vesting and subject to the other terms and conditions set forth in the Company s Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan, as may be amended from time to time (the  Plan ) and this Award Agreement.  
       
           2. 
    Vesting.     Except as otherwise provided in this Award Agreement, and subject to the Company s right to recoup or forfeit all or any portion of this Award and other conditions as provided in this Award Agreement[, including but not limited to the performance conditions in   [applicable paragraphs]   below], the Restricted Share Rights will vest and be settled according to the following schedule:   
     [  Vesting Schedule  ] 
  Shares of Common Stock in settlement of the Restricted Share Rights will be issued to you or, in case of your death, your Beneficiary determined in accordance with the Plan.  Although you may receive dividend equivalents as provided below, you will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to your Restricted Share Rights until settlement.  Upon vesting, each Restricted Share Right will be settled and distributed as one share of Common Stock except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this Award Agreement.  
           3. 
    Termination.      
              (a) 
    If you cease to be an Employee due to your death, any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest upon your date of death and will be settled and distributed to your Beneficiary in shares of Common Stock between January 2 and March 1 of the year following the year in which you die.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if by the last date set forth herein your Beneficiary has not presented evidence deemed satisfactory by the Company to allow transfer of the shares of Common Stock to the Beneficiary under applicable laws, the Company may treat all unvested Restricted Share Rights as forfeited, in which case the Company shall have no obligation to issue shares of Common Stock or benefits in lieu of such shares to your Beneficiary and shall have no liability therefor. 
              (b) 
    If you incur an involuntary [Separation from Service][termination of employment] as a result of [one of] the [following:] 
              [(1)] 
    application of the Company s Extended Absence Policy to you in connection with a Disability, 
              (2)   
    [your displacement and receipt of an immediate lump sum severance benefit, placement on a Salary Continuation Leave of Absence or placement on another leave of absence which will result in your receipt of a severance benefit in connection with that leave, or ] 
              (3) 
    [the Company or an Affiliate entering into a corporate transaction with another company (the  buyer ) (including a transaction where the buyer acquires all or any portion of the assets, stock or operations of the Company or Affiliate) and pursuant to the terms of the transaction your continuing in employment with the buyer after completion of the corporate transaction,] 
     
   15 

any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest and will be settled and distributed to you in shares of Common Stock within 90 days from your [Separation from Service][termination of employment or, if earlier, by March 1 of the year following the year in which the Restricted Share Rights vest][, subject to the performance conditions in   [applicable paragraphs]   below.   
  [The definitions of the terms [ Separation from Service  (which is determined by the Company in accordance with Section 409A (as defined in paragraph 11 below)),] and  Disability  are set forth on Exhibit A to this Award Agreement, which definitions are incorporated by reference herein.][For purposes of this Award, you will be considered to have a  Disability  if you are (1) receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under the Company s or an Affiliate s long-term disability plan as a result of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months; or (2) determined by the Social Security Administration to be eligible for social security disability benefits.] 
           (c) 
    [If you have a Separation from Service that is not addressed in paragraph 3(b) above for a reason other than Cause and you satisfy the definition of Retirement under the Plan on your Separation from Service date or you satisfy the definition of Retirement following your Separation from Service date at the end of an approved leave of absence not to exceed six months, any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will continue to vest and be settled upon the scheduled vesting date as set forth in paragraph 2 above[, subject to the conditions and restrictions in   [applicable paragraphs]   below]; provided, however, if you die following Retirement, subject to the limitations set forth in paragraph 3(a), any then unvested Restricted Share Right will vest immediately upon your date of death and will be settled and distributed to your Beneficiary in shares of Common Stock between January 2 and March 1 of the year following the year in which you die. The definition of the term  Cause  is set forth on Exhibit A to this Award Agreement, which definition is incorporated by reference herein.]  
       
           (d)  
    [If the Affiliate that employs you incurs a Change in Control and you continue employment with the buyer immediately after the Change in Control, any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately vest and will be settled and distributed to you in shares of Common Stock within 90 days from the date the Change in Control occurred [or, if earlier, by March 1 of the year immediately following the year in which the Change in Control occurred][, subject to the conditions and restrictions in   [applicable paragraphs]   below].  Exhibit A to this Award Agreement sets forth the definition of the term  Change in Control,  which definition is incorporated in this Award Agreement by reference.]   
              (e) 
    If you [incur a Separation from Service][terminate employment] other than for a reason described in   [applicable paragraphs]   above, any then unvested Restricted Share Right awarded hereby (including any Restricted Share Right granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided below) will immediately terminate without notice to you and will be forfeited. 
       
           4. 
    Dividend Equivalents.    During the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on the date the applicable Restricted Share Rights vest and are distributed, or are forfeited, whichever occurs first, if the Company pays a dividend on the Common Stock, you will automatically receive, as of the payment date for such dividend, dividend equivalents in the form of additional Restricted Share Rights based on the amount or number of shares that would have been paid on the Restricted Share Rights had they been issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the record date and, if a cash dividend, the closing price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange as of the dividend payment date.  You will also automatically receive dividend equivalents with respect to such additional Restricted Share Rights, to be granted in the same manner.  Restricted Share Rights granted with respect to dividend equivalents will be subject to the same vesting schedule and other terms and conditions as the underlying Restricted Share Rights, including the Company s right of recoupment or forfeiture, and will be distributed in shares of Common Stock when, and if, the underlying Restricted Share Rights are settled and distributed.  

16 

5. 
    Tax Withholding.    Regardless of any action the Company or an Affiliate which is your employer (the  Employer ) takes with respect to any or all income tax, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you or deemed by the Company or the Employer to be an appropriate charge to you even if technically due by the Company or the Employer ( Tax-Related Items ),  you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer.  You further acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer: (a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Award, including the grant, vesting or settlement of the Restricted Share Rights, the issuance of shares of Common Stock upon settlement  of the Restricted Share Rights, the subsequent sale of shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant to such issuance and the receipt of any dividends and/or any dividend equivalents; and (b) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Award to reduce or eliminate your liability for such Tax-Related Items or to achieve any particular tax result.  Further, if you are subject to tax on the Award in more than one jurisdiction at the time of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
       
  Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, you shall pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items.  In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion and pursuant to such procedures as the Company may specify from time to time, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (1) withholding from any wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Company and/or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired upon vesting and settlement of the Restricted Share Rights either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); or (3) withholding in shares of Common Stock to be issued upon vesting and settlement of the Restricted Share Rights. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are subject to the short-swing profit rules of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company will withhold in shares of Common Stock upon the relevant tax withholding event[, except with respect to any Tax-Related Items required to be withheld prior to the vesting dates set forth in paragraph 2 which may be withheld from your wages or other cash compensation], unless such withholding method is prevented by applicable law or has materially adverse accounting or tax consequences, in which case the Tax-Related Items withholding obligation may be satisfied by one or a combination of methods (1) and (2) above. 
  Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding amounts or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates, in which case you will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash and will have no entitlement to the Common Stock equivalent.  Anything to the contrary in this paragraph 5 notwithstanding, the Company or the Employer s right to withhold any amounts payable pursuant to this Award to cover Tax-Related Items for any portion of the Award that is considered deferred compensation subject to Section 409A shall be limited to the minimum amount permitted to avoid a prohibited acceleration under Section 409A.  If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding in shares of Common Stock, for tax purposes, you will be deemed to have been issued the full number of shares of Common Stock subject to the vested Restricted Share Rights, notwithstanding that a number of the shares of Common Stock are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan. 
  Finally, you shall pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the shares or the proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock, if you fail to comply with your obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items.   
           6. 
    Nontransferable.    Unless the Committee provides otherwise, (i) no rights under this Award will be assignable or transferable, and neither you nor your Beneficiary will have any power to anticipate, alienate, dispose of, pledge or encumber any rights under this Award, and (ii) the rights and the benefits of this Award may be exercised and received during your lifetime only by you or your legal representative. 
     
   17 

7. 
    Other Restrictions; Amendment.    The issuance of Common Stock hereunder is subject to compliance by the Company and you with all legal requirements applicable thereto, including compliance with the requirements of 12 C.F.R. Part 359 and tax withholding obligations, and with all applicable regulations of any stock exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed at the time of issuance.  Subject to paragraph[s] 11 [and 12] below, the Committee may, in its sole discretion and without your consent, reduce, delay vesting, modify, revoke, cancel, impose additional conditions and restrictions on or recover all or a portion of this Award if the Committee deems it necessary or advisable to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations.  This Award is subject to any applicable recoupment or  clawback  policies of the Company, as in effect from time to time, and any applicable recoupment or clawback requirements imposed under laws, rules and regulations. 
       
           8. 
    Performance Conditions.    The Award is fully conditioned on and subject to performance adjustments, which include the right of the Committee to cause you to forfeit all or any unpaid portion of an Award, if the Committee determines in its sole discretion that: 
                
    You engage in misconduct which has or might reasonably be expected to have reputational or other harm to the Company or any conduct that constitutes Cause;  
                
    You engage in misconduct or commit a material error that causes or might reasonably be expected to cause significant financial or reputational harm to the Company or your business group; 
                
    The Award was based on materially inaccurate performance metrics, whether or not you were responsible for the inaccuracy; 
                
    You improperly or with gross negligence, including in a supervisory capacity, fail to identify,  escalate, monitor, or manage, in a timely manner and as reasonably expected, risks material to the Company or your business group; or 
                
    The Company or your business group suffers a material downturn in its financial performance or suffers a material failure of risk management.  
     [For purposes of this Award,  Cause  means (1) the continued failure by you to substantially perform your duties; (2) your conviction of a crime involving dishonesty or breach of trust, conviction of a felony, or commission of any act that makes you ineligible for coverage under Wells Fargo's fidelity bond or otherwise makes you ineligible for continued employment; or (3) your violation of the Company s policies, including but not limited to Wells Fargo s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (or the Code applicable to your line of business), Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, Information Security Policies, or Risk Management Accountability Policy.  For the avoidance of doubt, an event or conduct constituting Cause could take place before or after your termination of employment.] The Committee may consider any factors it determines necessary or appropriate for purposes of making a determination whether a performance adjustment is appropriate and the amount of the adjustment based on the particular facts and circumstances.  All determinations by the Committee will be final and binding. 
           9. 
    Restrictive Covenants.    In consideration of the terms of this Award and your access to Confidential Information, you agree to the restrictive covenants and associated remedies as set forth below, which exist independently of and in addition to any obligation to which you are subject under the terms of the Wells Fargo Agreement Regarding Trade Secrets, Confidential Information, Non-Solicitation, And Assignment Of Inventions (the  TSA ): 
       
           (a) 
    Trade Secrets and Confidential Information.    During the course of your employment, you will acquire knowledge of the Company s and/or any Affiliate s (collectively  WFC ) Trade Secrets and other proprietary information relating to its business, business methods, personnel, and customers (collectively,  Confidential Information ).  Trade Secrets  means WFC s confidential information, which has an economic value in being secret and which WFC has taken steps to keep secret and you understand and agree that Trade Secrets include, but are not limited to, confidentially maintained client and customer lists and information, and confidentially maintained prospective client and customer lists and information.  You agree that Confidential Information of WFC is to be used solely and exclusively for the purpose of conducting business on behalf of WFC. You agree to keep such Confidential Information confidential and will not divulge, use or disclose this information except for that purpose.  In addition, you agree that, both during and after your employment, you will not remove, share, disseminate or otherwise use WFC s Trade Secrets to directly or indirectly solicit, participate in or promote the solicitation of any of WFC s clients, customers, or prospective customers for the purpose of providing products or services that are in competition with WFC s products or services. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this Award Agreement prohibits or restricts you (or your attorney) from  
     
   18 

initiating communications directly with, or responding to any inquiry from, or providing testimony before, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the National Labor Relations Board, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, or any self-regulatory organization or governmental authority charged with the enforcement of any laws. 
    
           (b) 
    Assignment of Inventions.    You acknowledge and agree that all inventions and all worldwide intellectual property rights that you make, conceive or first reduce to practice (alone or in conjunction with others) during your employment with WFC are owned by WFC that (1) relate at the time of conception or reduction to practice of the invention to WFC s business, or actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development of WFC whether or not you made, conceived or first reduced the inventions to practice during normal working hours; and (2) involve the use of any time, material, information, or facility of WFC.  
       
           (c) 
    Non-solicitation.    If you are currently subject to a TSA, you shall continue to be bound by the terms of the TSA.  If you are not currently subject to a TSA, you agree to the following:  
     For a period of one year immediately following termination of your employment for any reason, you will not do any of the following, either directly or indirectly or through associates, agents, or employees:  
           i. 
    solicit, recruit  or promote the solicitation or recruitment of any employee or consultant of WFC for the purpose of encouraging that employee or consultant to leave WFC s employ or sever an agreement for services; or    
              ii. 
    to the fullest extent enforceable under the applicable state law, solicit, participate in or promote the solicitation of any of WFC s clients, customers, or prospective customers with whom you had Material Contact and/or regarding whom you received Confidential Information, for the purpose of providing products or services that are in competition with WFC s products or services. "Material Contact" means interaction between you and the customer, client or prospective customer within one (1) year prior to your last day as a team member which takes place to manage, service or further the business relationship.  
     The one-year limitation is not intended to limit WFC s right to prevent misappropriation of its Confidential Information beyond the one-year period. 
           (d) 
    Violation of TSA or Restrictive Covenants.    If you breach any of the terms of a TSA and/or the restrictive covenants above, all unvested Restricted Share Rights shall be immediately and irrevocably forfeited.  For any Restricted Share Rights that vested within one (1) year prior to the termination of your employment with WFC or at any time after your termination, you shall be required to repay or otherwise reimburse WFC an amount having a value equal to the aggregate fair market value (determined as of the date of vesting) of such vested shares.  This paragraph does not constitute the Company s exclusive remedy for violation of your restrictive covenant obligations, and WFC may seek any additional legal or equitable remedy, including injunctive relief, for any such violation.    
              10. 
    No Employment Agreement.    Neither the award to you of the Restricted Share Rights nor the delivery to you of this Award Agreement or any other document relating to the Restricted Share Rights will confer on you the right to continued employment with the Company or any Affiliate.  You understand that your employment with the Company or any Affiliate is  at will  and nothing in this document changes, alters or modifies your  at will  status or your obligation to comply with all policies, procedures and rules of the Company, as they may be adopted or amended from time to time.   
              11. 
    Section 409A  .  This Award is intended to [comply with the requirements of][be exempt from] Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the applicable Treasury Regulations or other binding guidance thereunder ( Section 409A ).  Accordingly, all provisions included in this Award Agreement, or incorporated by reference, will be interpreted and administered in accordance with that intent.  [Therefore, all Restricted Share Rights will be settled and distributed no later than March 1 of the year following the year when such Restricted Share Rights vest.]  If any provision of the Plan or this Award Agreement would otherwise conflict with or frustrate this intent, that provision will be interpreted and deemed amended or limited so as to avoid the conflict; provided, however, that the Company makes no representation that the Award is exempt from or complies with Section 409A and makes no undertaking to preclude Section 409A from applying to the Award. The Company will have no liability to you or to any other party if the Award or payment of the Award that is intended to be [compliant with] 
     
   19 

[exempt from] Section 409A is not so [compliant][exempt] or for any action taken by the Committee with respect thereto. 
           12. 
    [Six-month Delay  .      Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or this Award Agreement to the contrary, if, upon your Separation from Service for any reason, the Company determines that you are a  Specified Employee  as defined in Section 409A and in accordance with the definition set forth on Exhibit A to this Award Agreement, which definition is incorporated by reference herein, your Restricted Share Rights, if subject to settlement upon your Separation from Service and if required pursuant to Section 409A, will not settle before the date that is the first business day following the six-month anniversary of such Separation from Service, or, if earlier, upon your death.]   
              13. 
    Stock Ownership Provision.    In accordance with the terms of the Company s stock ownership policy, as may be amended from time to time: (a) if you are an Executive Officer of the Company or a member of its Operating Committee, as a condition to receiving this Award, you agree to hold, while employed by the Company or any Affiliate and for a period of one year after your Retirement, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to at least 50% of the after-tax shares of Common Stock (assuming a 50% tax rate) acquired upon vesting and settlement of Company stock-based awards or pursuant to the exercise of Company stock options (if applicable), subject to a maximum holding requirement of shares with a value equal to ten (10) times your cash salary; and (b) if you are not an Executive Officer or member of the Operating Committee, you are expected to hold that number of shares while employed by the Company or any Affiliate. 
              14. 
    Severability and Judicial Modification.   If any provision of this Award Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable under pertinent state law or otherwise or Wells Fargo elects not to enforce such restriction, including but not limited to paragraph 9(c)ii, the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect and the invalid or unenforceable provision shall be modified only to the extent necessary to render that provision valid and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.  If the invalid or unenforceable provision cannot be, or is not, modified, that provision shall be severed from this Award Agreement and all other provisions shall remain valid and enforceable. 
              15. 
    Additional Provisions.    This Award Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Plan.  Capitalized terms not defined in this Award Agreement are used as defined in the Plan.  If the Plan and this Award Agreement are inconsistent, the provisions of the Plan will govern.  Interpretations of the Plan and this Award Agreement by the Committee are binding on you and the Company. 
              16. 
    Applicable Law.    This Award Agreement and the award of Restricted Share Rights evidenced hereby will be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Delaware (without regard to its choice-of-law provisions), except to the extent Federal law would apply. 
              17. 
    Imposition of Other Requirements.    The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Award and on any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with applicable law or facilitate the administration of the Plan and provided the imposition of the term or condition will not result in adverse accounting expense to the Company, and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. 
              18. 
    Electronic Delivery and Acceptance.   The Company is electronically delivering documents related to current or future participation in the Plan and is requesting your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means.  You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through the current plan administrator s on-line system, or any other on-line system or electronic means that the Company may decide, in its sole discretion, to use in the future. 
              19. 
    Entire Agreement.   The Plan is incorporated herein by reference. The Plan and this Award Agreement [(including Exhibit A attached hereto)] constitute the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the Award and supersede in their entirety all prior proposals, undertakings and agreements, written or oral, and all other communications between you and the Company with respect to the Award.  
      [Insert requirement to acknowledge and accept grant terms]  
  
   20 

[  Exhibit A] 
  [Certain Definitions] 
  [Separation from Service  
    
  A Participant s  Separation from Service  occurs upon his or her death, retirement or other termination of employment or other event that qualifies as a  separation from service  under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and the applicable regulations thereunder as in effect from time to time.  The Company shall determine in each case when a Participant s Separation from Service has occurred, which determination shall be made in a manner consistent with Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h).  The Company shall determine that a Separation from Service has occurred as of a certain date when the facts and circumstances indicate that the Company (or an Affiliate, if applicable) and the Participant reasonably anticipate that, after that date, the Participant will render no further services, or the Participant s level of bona fide services (either as an employee or independent contractor) will permanently decrease to a level that is 20% or less than the average level of the Participant s bona fide services (either as an employee or independent contractor) previously in effect for such Participant over the immediately preceding 36-month period (or the Participant s entire period of service, if the Participant has been providing services for less than 36 months). 
    
  The following presumptions shall also apply to all such determinations: 
    
           (1) 
    Transfers  .  A Separation from Service has not occurred upon the Participant s transfer of employment from the Company to an Affiliate or vice versa, or from an Affiliate to another Affiliate. 
       
           (2) 
    Medical leave of absence  .  Where the Participant has a medical leave of absence due to any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than six months, and he or she has not returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, a Separation from Service has occurred on the earlier of:  (A) the first day on which the Participant would not be considered  disabled  under any disability policy of the Company or Affiliate under which the Participant is then receiving a benefit; or (B) the first day on which the Participant s medical leave of absence period exceeds 29 months. 
       
           (3) 
    Military leave of absence  .  Where the Participant has a military leave of absence, and he or she has not returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, a Separation from Service has occurred on the day next following the last day on which the Participant is entitled to reemployment rights under USERRA. 
       
           (4) 
    Salary continuation leave  .  A Separation from Service has occurred on the first day of the Participant s salary continuation leave taken under the Company s Salary Continuation Pay Plan. 
       
           (5) 
    Other leaves of absence  .  In the event that the Participant is on a bona fide leave of absence, not otherwise described in this definition, from which he or she has not returned to employment with the Company or an Affiliate, the Participant s Separation from Service has occurred on the first day on which the Participant s leave of absence period exceeds six months or, if earlier, upon the Participant s termination of employment (provided that such termination of employment constitutes a Separation from Service in accordance with the last sentence of the first paragraph of this definition). 
       
           (6) 
    Asset purchase transaction  .  If, in connection with the sale or other disposition of substantial assets (such as a division or substantially all assets of a trade or business) of the Company or an Affiliate to an unrelated buyer, the Participant becomes an employee of the buyer or an affiliate of the buyer upon the closing of or in connection with such transaction, a Separation from Service has not occurred if the Company and the buyer have specified that such transaction will not, with respect to any individual affected by such transaction who becomes an employee of the buyer or an affiliate, be considered a  separation from service  under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h), and such specification meets the requirements of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h)(4).] 

[Specified Employee 
  
   21 

A  Specified Employee  means: 
    
           (1)  
    Any Participant who is a  key employee  under Internal Revenue Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii) (applied in accordance with the regulations thereunder and disregarding Internal Revenue Code Section 416(i)(5)) at any time during the 12-month period ending on the specified employee identification date. For purposes of determining  key employee  status under Internal Revenue Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), except as required under such provision and the regulations thereunder, the term  officer  shall refer to an employee of the Company or an Affiliate with the title Senior Vice President or above, and  
       
           (2)  
    Any participant who served as a member of the Company s Management Committee at any time during the 12-month period ending on the specified employee identification date.   
       
  For purposes of applying Internal Revenue Code section 409A, the  specified employee identification date  is each December 31.  Any person described in (1) or (2) above on a specified employee identification date shall be treated as a Specified Employee for the entire 12-month period beginning on the following April 1.   
    
  Notwithstanding the above, in the event of a corporate transaction to which the Company or an Affiliate is a party, the Company may, in its discretion, establish a method for determining Specified Employees pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(i)(6).]   
    
  [Disability  
  You will be considered to have a  Disability  if you are (1) receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under the Company s or an Affiliate s long-term disability plan as a result of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months; or (2) determined by the Social Security Administration to be eligible for social security disability benefits.] 
    
  [Cause  
    Cause  means (1) the continued failure by you to substantially perform your duties; (2) your conviction of a crime involving dishonesty or breach of trust, conviction of a felony, or commission of any act that makes you ineligible for coverage under Wells Fargo's fidelity bond or otherwise makes you ineligible for continued employment; or (3) your violation of the Company s policies, including but not limited to Wells Fargo s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (or the Code applicable to your line of business), Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, Information Security Policies, and Risk Management Accountability Policy. For the avoidance of doubt, an event or conduct constituting Cause could take place before or after your termination of employment.]  
    
  [Change in Control 
    Change in Control  means a change in the ownership or effective control of the Company or the Affiliate that employs you, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company or the Affiliate that employs you within the meaning of Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(i)(5) as determined by the Company.] 

End of Form of Restricted Share Rights Award Agreement  
  For Grants on or after December 14, 2017 

22 

</EX-10.A>

<EX-12.A>
 4
 wfc-12312017xex12a.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.A

Exhibit 

(2) 
    These computations are included herein in compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission regulations. However, management believes that fixed charge ratios are not meaningful measures for the business of the Company because of two factors. First, even if there was no change in net income, the ratios would decline with an increase in the proportion of income which is tax-exempt or, conversely, they would increase with a decrease in the proportion of income which is tax-exempt. Second, even if there was no change in net income, the ratios would decline if interest income and interest expense increase by the same amount due to an increase in the level of interest rates or, conversely, they would increase if interest income and interest expense decrease by the same amount due to a decrease in the level of interest rates. 

</EX-12.A>

<EX-12.B>
 5
 wfc-12312017xex12b.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.B

Exhibit 

(2) 
    The preferred dividends were increased to amounts representing the pretax earnings that would be required to cover such dividend requirements. 
              (3) 
    These computations are included herein in compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission regulations. However, management believes that fixed charge ratios are not meaningful measures for the business of the Company because of two factors. First, even if there was no change in net income, the ratios would decline with an increase in the proportion of income which is tax-exempt or, conversely, they would increase with a decrease in the proportion of income which is tax-exempt. Second, even if there was no change in net income, the ratios would decline if interest income and interest expense increase by the same amount due to an increase in the level of interest rates or, conversely, they would increase if interest income and interest expense decrease by the same amount due to a decrease in the level of interest rates. 

263 

</EX-12.B>

<EX-13>
 6
 wfc-12312017xex13.htm
 EXHIBIT 13

Exhibit 

Exhibit 13 

Overview   (continued) 

This Annual Report, including the Financial Review and the Financial Statements and related Notes, contains forward-looking statements, which may include forecasts of our financial results and condition, expectations for our operations and business, and our assumptions for those forecasts and expectations. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements due to several factors. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements are described in this Report, including in the  Forward-Looking Statements      and  Risk Factors  sections, and in the  Regulation and Supervision  section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended   December 31, 2017   (  2017   Form 10-K). 
    
  When we refer to  Wells Fargo,   the Company,   we,   our,  or  us  in this Report, we mean Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries (consolidated). When we refer to the  Parent,  we mean Wells Fargo   Company. When we refer to  legacy Wells Fargo,  we mean Wells Fargo excluding Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia). See the Glossary of Acronyms for terms used throughout this Report. 
    
  Financial Review 
               Overview 

Wells Fargo   Company is a diversified, community-based financial services company with   $2.0 trillion   in assets. Founded in 1852 and headquartered in San Francisco, we provide banking, investments, mortgage, and consumer and commercial finance through more than 8,300 locations, 13,000 ATMs, digital (online, mobile and social), and contact centers (phone, email and correspondence), and we have offices in 42 countries and territories to support customers who conduct business in the global economy. With approximately 263,000 active, full-time equivalent team members, we serve one in three households in the United States and ranked No. 25 on   Fortune s   2017 rankings of America s largest corporations. We ranked third in assets and in the market value of our common stock among all U.S. banks at   December 31, 2017  .  
  We use our   Vision, Values and Goals   to guide us toward growth and success. Our vision is to satisfy our customers  financial needs and help them succeed financially. We aspire to create deep and enduring relationships with our customers by providing them with an exceptional experience and by understanding their needs and delivering the most relevant products, services, advice, and guidance. 
  We have five primary values, which are based on our vision and guide the actions we take. First, we place customers at the center of everything we do. We want to exceed customer expectations and build relationships that last a lifetime. Second, we value and support our people as a competitive advantage and strive to attract, develop, motivate, and retain the best team members. Third, we strive for the highest ethical standards of integrity, transparency, and principled performance. Fourth, we value and promote diversity and inclusion in all aspects of business and at all levels. Fifth, we look to each of our team members to be a leader in establishing, sharing, and communicating our vision for our customers, communities, team members, and shareholders. In addition to our five primary values, one of our key day-to-day priorities is to make risk management a competitive advantage by working hard to ensure that appropriate controls are in place to reduce risks to our customers, maintain and increase our competitive market position, and protect Wells Fargo s long-term safety, soundness, and reputation. 
  In keeping with our primary values and risk management priorities, we have six long-term goals for the Company, which entail becoming the financial services leader in the following areas: 

Customer service and advice   provide exceptional service and guidance to our customers to help them succeed financially. 
                
    Team member engagement   be a company where people feel included, valued, and supported; everyone is respected; and we work as a team. 
                
    Innovation   create lasting value for our customers and increased efficiency for our operations through innovative thinking, industry-leading technology, and a willingness to test and learn. 
                
    Risk management   set the global standard in 
     managing all forms of risk. 
             
    Corporate citizenship   make a positive contribution to communities through philanthropy, advancing diversity and inclusion, creating economic opportunity, and promoting environmental sustainability. 
                
    Shareholder value   deliver long-term value for shareholders. 
       
  Over the past year and a half, our Board of Directors (Board) has taken, and continues to take, actions to enhance Board oversight and governance. These actions, many of which reflected results from the Board s 2017 self-assessment, which was facilitated by a third party, and the feedback we received from our shareholders and other stakeholders, included: 
             
    Separating the roles of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. 
                
    Amending Wells Fargo s By-Laws to require that the Chairman be an independent director. 
                
    Electing Elizabeth A.  Betsy  Duke as our new independent Board Chair, effective January 1, 2018. 
                
    Electing six new independent directors, including directors with financial services, risk management, regulatory, technology, human capital management, social responsibility, and other relevant experience, with five directors retiring in 2017. 
                
    Making changes to the leadership and composition of key Board committees, including appointing new chairs of the Board s Risk Committee and Governance and Nominating Committee. 
                
    Amending Board committee charters and working with management to improve reporting to the Board in order to enhance the Board's risk oversight. 

As previously announced, the Board s refreshment process will continue with director retirements in 2018. As has been our practice, we will continue our engagement efforts with our shareholders and other stakeholders while the Board maintains its focus on enhancing oversight and governance. 
    
  Federal Reserve Board Consent Order Regarding Governance Oversight and Compliance and Operational Risk Management    
  On February 2, 2018, the Company entered into a consent order with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB), which requires the Company to submit to the FRB within 60 days of the date of the consent order plans to further enhance the Board s governance oversight and the Company s compliance and operational risk management. The consent order also requires third-party reviews related to the adoption and implementation of such plans by September 30, 2018. Until these third-party reviews are complete and the plans are approved and implemented to the satisfaction of the FRB, the Company s total consolidated assets will be limited to the level as of December 31, 2017. Compliance with this asset cap will be measured on a two-quarter daily average basis to allow for management of temporary fluctuations. Once the asset cap limitation is removed, a second third-party review must be conducted to assess the efficacy and sustainability of the improvements. 
  The Company may be subject to further actions, including the imposition of consent orders or similar regulatory agreements or civil money penalties, by other federal regulators regarding similar issues, including the Company s risk management policies and procedures. 
    
  Sales Practices Matters 
  As we have previously reported, in September 2016 we announced settlements with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), and the Office of the Los Angeles City Attorney, and entered into consent orders with the CFPB and the OCC, in connection with allegations that some of our retail customers received products and services they did not request. As a result, it remains our top priority to rebuild trust through a comprehensive action plan that includes making things right for our customers, team members, and other stakeholders, and building a better Company for the future. 
  The job of rebuilding trust in Wells Fargo is a long-term effort   one requiring our commitment and perseverance. We have in place a specific action plan focused on reaching out to stakeholders who may have been affected by improper retail banking sales practices, including our communities, our customers, our regulators, our team members, and our investors. 
  Our priority of rebuilding trust has included numerous actions focused on identifying potential financial harm and customer remediation. The Board and management are conducting company-wide reviews of sales practices issues. These reviews are ongoing. In August 2017, a third-party consulting firm completed an expanded data-driven review of retail banking accounts opened from January 2009 to September 2016 to identify financial harm stemming from potentially unauthorized accounts. We are providing customer remediation based on the expanded account analysis.  
  For additional information regarding sales practices matters, including related legal matters, see the  Risk Factors   

section and Note 15 (Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
    
  Additional Efforts to Rebuild Trust 
  Our priority of rebuilding trust has also included an effort to identify other areas or instances where customers may have experienced financial harm. We are working with our regulatory agencies in this effort. As part of this effort, we are focused on the following key areas: 
             
    Automobile Lending Business      Practices concerning the origination, servicing, and/or collection of consumer automobile loans, including related insurance products. For example: 
                
    In July 2017, the Company announced a plan to remediate customers who may have been financially harmed due to issues related to automobile collateral protection insurance (CPI) policies purchased through a third-party vendor on their behalf. The practice of placing CPI was discontinued by the Company on September 30, 2016. Commencing in August 2017, the Company began sending refund checks and/or letters to affected customers through which they may claim or otherwise receive remediation compensation for policies placed between October 15, 2005, and September 30, 2016. The Company currently estimates that it will provide approximately $145 million in cash remediation and $37 million in account adjustments under the plan. The amount of remediation may be affected as the Company continues to work with its regulators on the remediation plan. 
                
    The Company has identified certain issues related to the unused portion of guaranteed automobile protection waiver or insurance agreements between the dealer and, by assignment, the lender, which may result in refunds to customers in certain states. 
                
    Mortgage Interest Rate Lock Extensions      In October 2017, the Company announced plans to reach out to all home lending customers who paid fees for mortgage rate lock extensions requested from September 16, 2013, through February 28, 2017, and to provide refunds, with interest, to customers who believe they should not have paid those fees. The plan to issue refunds follows an internal review that determined a rate lock extension policy implemented in September 2013 was, at times, not consistently applied, resulting in some borrowers being charged fees in cases where the Company was primarily responsible for the delays that made the extensions necessary. Effective March 1, 2017, the Company changed how it manages the mortgage rate lock extension process by establishing a centralized review team that reviews all rate lock extension requests for consistent application of the policy. Although a total of approximately $98 million in rate lock extension fees was assessed on approximately 110,000 accounts during the period in question, the Company believes that the amount ultimately refunded likely will be lower because a substantial number of those fees were appropriately charged under its policy, not all of the fees assessed were actually paid, and some fees already have been refunded. 
                
    Add-on Products      Practices related to certain consumer  add-on  products, including identity theft and debt protection products that were subject to an OCC consent order entered into in June 2015. Based on our ongoing review of  add-on  products across the Company, we  

Overview   (continued) 

expect remediation will be required. 
             
    Consumer Deposit Account Freezing/Closing       Procedures regarding the freezing (and, in many cases, closing) of consumer deposit accounts after the Company detected suspected fraudulent activity (by third-parties or account holders) that affected those accounts. 
                
    Review of Certain Activities Within Wealth and Investment Management    A review of certain activities within Wealth and Investment Management (WIM) being conducted by the Board, in response to inquiries from federal government agencies, is assessing whether there have been inappropriate referrals or recommendations, including with respect to rollovers for 401(k) plan participants, certain alternative investments, or referrals of brokerage customers to the Company s investment and fiduciary services business. The review is in its preliminary stages.  
                
    Fiduciary and Custody Account Fee Calculations    The Company is reviewing fee calculations within certain fiduciary and custody accounts in its investment and fiduciary services business, which is part of the wealth management business in WIM. The Company has determined that there have been instances of incorrect fees being applied to certain assets and accounts, resulting in overcharges. These issues include the incorrect set-up and maintenance in the system of record of the values associated with certain assets. Systems, operations, and account-level reviews are underway to determine the extent of any assets and accounts affected, and root cause analyses are being performed with the assistance of third parties. The review is in its preliminary stages and is focused initially on assets that are not publicly traded.  
                
    Foreign Exchange Business      The Company is reviewing policies, practices, and procedures in its foreign exchange (FX) business. The Company is also responding to inquiries from government agencies in connection with their reviews of certain aspects of our FX business. 
       
  To the extent issues are identified, we will continue to assess any customer harm and provide remediation as appropriate. This effort to identify other instances in which customers may have experienced harm is ongoing, and it is possible that we may identify other areas of potential concern. For more information, including related legal and regulatory risk, see the  Risk Factors  section and Note 15 (Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
    
  Financial Performance 
  In 2017, we generated $22.2 billion of net income and diluted earnings per common share (EPS) of $4.10, compared with $21.9 billion of net income and EPS of $3.99 for 2016. We grew average loans and deposits compared with 2016, increased our capital and liquidity levels, and rewarded our shareholders by increasing our dividend and continuing to repurchase shares of our common stock. Our achievements during 2017 continued to demonstrate the benefit of our diversified business model and our ability to perform well in a challenging environment. Noteworthy financial performance items for 2017 (compared with 2016) included:  

a $3.4 billion after-tax benefit, or $0.67 per share, to net income in 2017 from the impact of the Tax Cuts   Jobs Act (Tax Act) passed in December 2017. The impact included a tax benefit from the re-measurement of net deferred income tax liabilities, partially offset by the tax cost of a deemed repatriation of undistributed foreign earnings and the impact of adjustments related to leveraged leases, low income housing investments, and tax-advantaged renewable energy investments.  
                  
    strong credit performance as our net charge-off ratio was 31 basis points of average loans down from 37 basis points; 
                 
    returning $14.5 billion in capital to our shareholders through increased common stock dividends and additional net share repurchases. 
       
  Table 1   presents a six year summary of selected financial data and   Table 2   presents selected ratios and per common share data.  
    
  Balance Sheet and Liquidity 
  Our balance sheet grew 1% in 2017 to $2.0 trillion, as we increased our liquidity position, held more capital and continued to experience solid credit quality. Cash and other short-term investments increased $9.2 billion from December 31, 2016, reflecting lower loan balances and growth in deposits. Investment securities grew $8.5 billion, or 2%, from December 31, 2016. Our loan portfolio declined $10.8 billion from December 31, 2016. Growth in commercial and industrial and real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loans was more than offset by declines in commercial real estate mortgage, real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage and automobile loans. 
  Deposits at December 31, 2017, were up $29.9 billion, or 2%, from 2016. This increase reflected growth across our commercial, consumer and small business banking deposits. Our average deposit cost increased 12 basis points from a year ago driven by an increase in commercial and wealth and investment management deposit rates. 
    
  Credit Quality 
  Credit quality remained solid in 2017, driven by continued strong performance in the commercial and consumer real estate portfolios. Performance in several of our commercial and consumer loan portfolios remained near historically low loss levels and reflected our long-term risk focus. Net charge-offs of $2.9 billion were 0.31% of average loans, compared with $3.5 billion and 0.37%, respectively, from a year ago. Net losses in our commercial portfolio were $446 million, or 9 basis points of average loans, in 2017, compared with $1.1 billion, or 22 basis points, in 2016. Our commercial real estate portfolios were in a net recovery position for each quarter of the last five years, reflecting our conservative risk discipline and improved market conditions.  
  Net consumer losses increased to 55 basis points in 2017 from 53 basis points in 2016. Losses on our consumer real estate portfolios declined $343 million to a net recovery position from a year ago. The consumer loss levels reflected increased losses in our credit card, automobile, and other revolving and installment loan portfolios, partially offset by the benefit of the improving housing market and our continued focus on originating high quality loans. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 79% of  

our real estate 1-4 family first lien mortgage portfolio was originated after 2008, when new underwriting standards were implemented.  
  The allowance for credit losses of $12.0 billion at December 31, 2017, was down $580 million compared with the prior year. Our provision for credit losses in 2017 was $2.5 billion compared with $3.8 billion a year ago reflecting a release of $400 million in the allowance for credit losses, compared with a build of $250 million in 2016. The build in 2016 was primarily due to deterioration in the oil and gas portfolio, while the release in 2017 was due to strong underlying credit performance. 
  Nonperforming assets (NPAs) at the end of 2017 were down $2.7 billion, or 24%, from the end of 2016. Nonaccrual loans declined $2.3 billion from the prior year end while foreclosed assets were down $336 million from 2016.  
    
  Capital 
  Our capital levels remained strong in 2017 with total equity increasing to $208.1 billion at December 31, 2017, up $7.6 billion from the prior year.   We returned $14.5 billion to shareholders in 2017 ($12.5 billion in 2016) through common stock dividends and net share repurchases  , and our net payout  

ratio (which is the ratio of (i) common stock dividends and share repurchases less issuances and stock compensation-related items, divided by (ii) net income applicable to common stock) was 70%. During 2017 we increased our quarterly common stock dividend from $0.38 to $0.39 per share. Our common shares outstanding declined by 124.5 million shares as we continued to reduce our common share count through the repurchase of 196.5 million common shares during the year. We entered into a $1 billion forward repurchase contract with an unrelated third party in January 2018 that settled in February 2018 for 15.7 million shares. We also entered into a $600 million forward repurchase contract with an unrelated third party in February 2018 that is expected to settle in second quarter 2018 for approximately 11 million shares. We expect our share count to continue to decline in 2018 as a result of anticipated net share repurchases. 
  We believe an important measure of our capital strength is the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio on a fully phased-in basis, which was   11.98  % as of December 31, 2017, compared with 10.77% a year ago. Likewise, our other regulatory capital ratios remained strong. See the  Capital Management  section in this Report for more information regarding our capital, including the calculation of our regulatory capital amounts. 

Table 1:      Six-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data    

Overview (continued) 

Table 2:      Ratios and Per Common Share Data    

(1) 
    Tangible common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure and represents total equity less preferred equity, noncontrolling interests, and goodwill and certain identifiable intangible assets (including goodwill and intangible assets associated with certain of our nonmarketable equity investments but excluding mortgage servicing rights), net of applicable deferred taxes. The methodology of determining tangible common equity may differ among companies. Management believes that return on average tangible common equity, which utilizes tangible common equity, is a useful financial measure because it enables investors and others to assess the Company's use of equity. For additional information, including a corresponding reconciliation to GAAP financial measures, see the  Capital Management   Tangible Common Equity  section in this Report. 
              (2) 
    The efficiency ratio is noninterest expense divided by total revenue (net interest income and noninterest income). 
              (3) 
    See the  Capital Management  section and Note 27 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information. 
              (4) 
    The risk-based capital ratios presented at   December 31, 2017  ,   2016  , and   2015   were calculated under the lower of Standardized or Advanced Approach determined pursuant to Basel III with Transition Requirements. The risk-based capital ratios were all lower under the Standardized Approach at December 31, 2017. The total capital ratio was lower under the Advanced Approach and the other ratios were lower under the Standardized Approach at both December 31, 2016 and 2015. 
              (5) 
    Dividend payout ratio is dividends declared per common share as a percentage of diluted earnings per common share. 
              (6) 
    Book value per common share is common stockholders  equity divided by common shares outstanding. 
              (7) 
    Based on daily prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting System. 

Earnings Performance 

Wells Fargo net income for   2017   was   $22.2 billion   (  $4.10   diluted earnings per common share), compared with   $21.9 billion   (  $3.99   diluted per share) for   2016   and   $22.9 billion   (  $4.12   diluted per share) for   2015  . Our financial performance in   2017   benefited from a   $1.8 billion   increase in net interest income, a   $1.2 billion   decrease in our provision for credit losses, and a   $5.2 billion   decrease in income tax expense (of which $3.7 billion resulted from the net benefit of adjustments due to the Tax Act), partially offset by a   $1.7 billion   decrease in noninterest income and a   $6.1 billion   increase in noninterest expense.  
  Revenue, the sum of net interest income and noninterest income, was   $88.4 billion   in   2017  , compared with   $88.3 billion   in   2016   and   $86.1 billion   in   2015  . The increase in revenue for   2017   compared with   2016   was predominantly due to an increase in net interest income, reflecting increases in interest income from loans, trading assets and investment securities, partially offset by higher long-term debt and deposit interest expense. Our diversified sources of revenue generated by our businesses continued to be balanced between net interest income and  

noninterest income. In   2017  , net interest income of   $49.6 billion   represented   56%   of revenue, compared with   $47.8 billion   (  54%  ) in   2016   and   $45.3 billion   (  53%  ) in   2015  .   Table 3   presents the components of revenue and noninterest expense as a percentage of revenue for year-over-year results. 
  See later in this section for discussions of net interest income, noninterest income and noninterest expense.  

Table 3:      Net Interest Income, Noninterest Income and Noninterest Expense as a Percentage of Revenue    

(1) 
    See Table 7   Noninterest Income in this Report for additional detail. 
              (2) 
    See Table 8   Noninterest Expense in this Report for additional detail. 

Earnings Performance   (continued) 

Net Interest Income 
  Net interest income is the interest earned on debt securities, loans (including yield-related loan fees) and other interest-earning assets minus the interest paid on deposits, short-term borrowings and long-term debt. The net interest margin is the average yield on earning assets minus the average interest rate paid for deposits and our other sources of funding. Net interest income and the net interest margin are presented on a taxable-equivalent basis in Table 5 to consistently reflect income from taxable and tax-exempt loans and securities based on a 35% federal statutory tax rate. 
  While the Company believes that it has the ability to increase net interest income over time, net interest income and the net interest margin in any one period can be significantly affected by a variety of factors including the mix and overall size of our earning assets portfolio and the cost of funding those assets. In addition, some variable sources of interest income, such as resolutions from purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loans, loan fees and collection of interest on nonaccrual loans, can vary from period to period. Net interest income and net interest margin growth has been challenged during the prolonged low interest rate environment as higher yielding loans and securities have run off and have been replaced with lower yielding assets.  
  Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis was   $50.9 billion   in   2017  , compared with   $49.0 billion   in   2016  , and   $46.4 billion   in   2015  . The net interest margin was   2.87%   in   2017  , up   1   basis point from   2.86%   in   2016  , and down   9   basis points from   2.95%   in   2015  . The increase in net interest income for   2017  , compared with   2016  , was driven by growth in earning assets and the benefit of higher interest rates, partially offset by growth and repricing of long-term debt. Deposit interest expense was also higher, largely due to an increase in Wholesale and Wealth and Investment Management (WIM) deposit pricing resulting from higher interest rates. 

The slight increase in net interest margin in 2017, compared with 2016, was due to repricing benefits of earning assets from higher interest rates exceeding the repricing costs of deposits and market based funding sources  . 
  Table 4   presents the components of earning assets and funding sources as a percentage of earning assets to provide a more meaningful analysis of year-over-year changes that influenced net interest income. 
  Average earning assets increased   $62.2 billion   in   2017   from a year ago, as average loans increased   $6.2 billion  , average investment securities increased   $50.4 billion  , and average trading assets increased   $13.3 billion   in   2017  , compared with a year ago. In addition, average federal funds sold and other short-term investments decreased   $11.2 billion   in   2017  , compared with a year ago.  
  Deposits are an important low-cost source of funding and affect both net interest income and the net interest margin. Deposits include noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing checking, market rate and other savings, savings certificates, other time deposits, and deposits in foreign offices. Average deposits increased to   $1.30 trillion   in   2017  , compared with   $1.25 trillion   in   2016  , and represented   136%   of average loans compared with   132%   a year ago. Average deposits were   74%   of average earning assets in   2017  , compared with   73%   a year ago.  
  Table 5   presents the individual components of net interest income and the net interest margin. The effect on interest income and costs of earning asset and funding mix changes described above, combined with rate changes during   2017  , are analyzed in   Table 6  . 

Table 4:      Average Earning Assets and Funding Sources as a Percentage of Average Earning Assets    

(1) 
    Nonaccrual loans are included in their respective loan categories. 

Earnings Performance   (continued) 

Table 5:      Average Balances, Yields and Rates Paid (Taxable-Equivalent Basis) (1)(2)    

(2) 
    Yield/rates and amounts include the effects of hedge and risk management activities associated with the respective asset and liability categories. 

(3) 
    The average balance amounts represent amortized cost for the periods presented. 
              (4) 
    Nonaccrual loans and related income are included in their respective loan categories. 

Earnings Performance   (continued) 

Table 6   allocates the changes in net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis to changes in either average balances or average rates for both interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the numerous simultaneous volume and rate changes during any period, it is not possible to precisely allocate such changes between volume and rate. For  

this table, changes that are not solely due to either volume or rate are allocated to these categories on a pro-rata basis based on the absolute value of the change due to average volume and average rate. 

Table 6:      Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income    

Noninterest Income 
    
  Table 7:      Noninterest Income 

(1) 
    Wire transfer and other remittance fees, reflected in all other fees prior to 2016, have been separately disclosed.  
               (3) 
    Effective fourth quarter 2015, the Company's proportionate share of its merchant services joint venture earnings is included in All other income.  
       
  Noninterest income of $  38.8 billion   represented   44%   of revenue for   2017  , compared with   $40.5 billion  , or   46%  , for   2016   and   $40.8 billion  , or   47%  , for   2015  . The decline in noninterest income in   2017   compared with 2016 was predominantly driven by lower mortgage banking, impairments on low income housing credits and tax-advantaged renewable energy investments as a result of the Tax Act, and lower service charges on deposit accounts. These decreases in noninterest income were partially offset by growth in trust and investment fees, deferred compensation plan investment results (offset in employee benefits expense), and the net impact of our insurance services business divestiture in November 2017 and a gain from the sale of a Pick-a-Pay PCI loan portfolio. The decline in noninterest income in 2016 compared with 2015 was largely driven by lower net gains from equity investments, mortgage banking, and insurance income due to the divestiture of our crop insurance business, partially offset by growth in lease income related to the GE Capital business acquisitions and gains from the sale of our crop insurance and health benefit services businesses. For more information on our performance obligations and the nature of services performed for certain of our revenues discussed below, see Note 20 (Revenue from Contracts with Customers) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
  Service charges on deposit accounts were   $5.1 billion   in   2017  , down from   $5.4 billion   in   2016   due to lower consumer and business checking account service charges, lower overdraft fees driven by customer-friendly initiatives including the Overdraft Rewind launched in November 2017, and a higher earnings  

credit rate applied to commercial accounts due to increased interest rates. Service charges on deposit accounts increased $204 million in 2016 from 2015 due to higher overdraft fee revenue driven by growth in transaction volume, account growth and higher fees from commercial products and re-pricing.  
  Brokerage advisory, commissions and other fees increased to $  9.4 billion   in   2017  , from   $9.2 billion   in   2016  , which decreased $219 million compared with   2015  . The increase in these fees for   2017   was due to higher asset-based fees, partially offset by lower transactional commission revenue. The decrease in 2016 was predominantly due to lower transactional commission revenue. Retail brokerage client assets totaled   $1.65 trillion   at   December 31, 2017  , compared with   $1.49 trillion   and   $1.39 trillion   at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively, with all retail brokerage services provided by our WIM operating segment. For additional information on retail brokerage client assets, see the discussion and Tables 9d and 9e in the  Operating Segment Results   Wealth and Investment Management   Retail Brokerage Client Assets  section in this Report. 
  Trust and investment management fee income is primarily from client assets under management (AUM), for which fees are based on a tiered scale relative to market value of the assets, and client assets under administration (AUA), for which fees are generally based on the extent of services to administer the assets. Trust and investment management fees of $  3.4 billion   in   2017   were relatively stable compared with 2016. Trust and investment management fees of $3.3 billion in 2016 decreased $58 million compared with 2015, due to a shift of assets into lower yielding products. Our AUM totaled   $690.3 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , compared with   $652.2 billion   and   $653.4 billion   at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively, with substantially all of our AUM managed by our WIM operating segment. Additional information regarding our WIM operating segment AUM is provided in   Table 9f   and the related discussion in the  Operating Segment Results   Wealth and Investment Management   Trust and Investment Client Assets Under Management  section in this Report. Our AUA totaled   $1.7 trillion   at   December 31, 2017  , compared with   $1.6 trillion   and   $1.4 trillion   at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively.  
  Investment banking fees of $  1.8 billion   in   2017   increased from   $1.7 billion   in   2016   due to higher equity and debt originations, partially offset by lower advisory fees. Investment banking fees in 2016 increased $52 million compared with 2015 due to higher loan syndications and advisory fees, partially offset by lower equity originations.  
  Card fees were   $4.0 billion   in   2017  , compared with   $3.9 billion   in   2016   and   $3.7 billion   in   2015  . Card fees increased in   2017   and   2016   predominantly due to increased purchase activity. 
  Other fees of   $3.6 billion   in   2017   decreased compared with   2016   predominantly driven by lower all other fees. Other fees in 2016 decreased compared with 2015 predominantly driven by lower commercial real estate brokerage commissions and all other fees. All other fees were   $573 million   in 2017, compared with   $733 million   in 2016 and   $1.2 billion   in 2015. The decrease in all other fees in 2017 compared with 2016 was driven by lower fees from discontinued products and the impact of the sale of our global fund services business in fourth quarter 2016. The decrease in all other fees in 2016 compared with 2015 was predominantly due to the deconsolidation of our merchant services joint venture in fourth quarter 2015, which resulted in a proportionate share of that income now being reflected in all other income.  
  Mortgage banking income, consisting of net servicing income and net gains on loan origination/sales activities, totaled  

Earnings Performance   (continued) 

$4.4 billion   in   2017  , compared with   $6.1 billion   in   2016   and   $6.5 billion   in   2015  .     
  In addition to servicing fees, net mortgage loan servicing income includes amortization of commercial mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), changes in the fair value of residential MSRs during the period, as well as changes in the value of derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge the residential MSRs during the period. Net servicing income of   $1.4 billion   for   2017   included a   $287 million   net MSR valuation gain (  $126 million   decrease in the fair value of the MSRs and a   $413 million   hedge gain). Net servicing income of   $1.8 billion   for   2016   included a   $826 million   net MSR valuation gain (  $565 million   increase in the fair value of the MSRs and a   $261 million   hedge gain), and net servicing income of   $2.4 billion   for   2015   included a   $885 million   net MSR valuation gain (  $214 million   increase in the fair value of MSRs and a   $671 million   hedge gain). The decrease in net MSR valuation gains in   2017  , compared with   2016  , was largely attributable to lower hedge gains in 2017 and MSR valuation adjustments in first quarter 2016 that reflected a reduction in forecasted prepayments due to updated economic, customer data attributes and mortgage market rate inputs. The decrease in net MSR valuation gains in 2016, compared with 2015, 
  was predominantly attributable to lower hedge gains, partially offset by more favorable MSR valuation adjustments in 2016 for servicing and foreclosure costs, net of prepayment and other updates. The decline in net servicing income from 2015 to 2016 was also attributable to a reduction in net servicing fees due to a reduction in the portfolio of loans serviced for others as well as an increase in unreimbursed direct servicing costs. 
  Our portfolio of loans serviced for others was   $1.70 trillion   at   December 31, 2017  ,   $1.68 trillion   at   December 31, 2016  , and $1.78 trillion at   December 31, 2015  . At   December 31, 2017  , the ratio of combined residential and commercial MSRs to related loans serviced for others was   0.88%  , compared with   0.85%   at   December 31, 2016  , and 0.77% at   December 31, 2015  . See the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management   Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  section in this Report for additional information regarding our MSRs risks and hedging approach. 
  Net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities was   $2.9 billion   in   2017  , compared with   $4.3 billion   in   2016   and   $4.1 billion   in   2015  . The decrease in   2017   compared with   2016   was largely driven by decreased origination volumes and margins. The increase in 2016 from 2015 was predominantly driven by increased origination volumes, partially offset by lower margins. Mortgage loan originations were $  212 billion   in   2017  , compared with   $249 billion   for   2016   and $213 billion for   2015  . The production margin on residential held-for-sale mortgage originations, which represents net gains on residential mortgage loan origination/sales activities divided by total residential held-for-sale mortgage originations, provides a measure of the profitability of our residential mortgage origination activity.   Table 7a   presents the information used in determining the production margin. 

Table 7a:      Selected Mortgage Production Data    

(1) 
    Predominantly includes the results of sales of modified Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) loans, interest rate management activities and changes in estimate to the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses. 
     The production margin was   1.34%   for   2017  , compared with   1.71%   for   2016   and   1.84%   for   2015  . The decrease in the production margin in both 2017 and 2016 was due to a shift in origination channel mix from retail to correspondent. Mortgage applications were   $278 billion   in   2017  , compared with $347 billion in   2016   and $311 billion in   2015  . The 1-4 family first mortgage unclosed pipeline was $  23 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , compared with   $30 billion   at   December 31, 2016  , and $29 billion at   December 31, 2015  . For additional information about our mortgage banking activities and results, see the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management   Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  section and Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) and Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
  Net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities include adjustments to the mortgage repurchase liability. Mortgage loans are repurchased from third parties based on standard representations and warranties, and early payment default clauses in mortgage sale contracts. For   2017  , we released a net   $39 million   from the repurchase liability, compared with a net release of   $103 million   for   2016   and   $159 million   for   2015  . For additional information about mortgage loan repurchases, see the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management   Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  section and Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

Insurance income was $1.0 billion in 2017 compared with $1.3 billion in 2016 and $1.7 billion in 2015. The decrease in 2017 and 2016 was driven by the divestiture of our crop insurance business in first quarter 2016. The decrease in 2017 was also affected by the divestiture of our insurance services business in fourth quarter 2017.  
  Net gains from trading activities, which reflect unrealized changes in fair value of our trading positions and realized gains and losses, were   $1.1 billion   in   2017  ,   $834 million   in   2016   and   $614 million   in   2015  . The increases in   2017   and 2016, compared with   2016   and 2015, respectively, were predominantly driven by higher deferred compensation gains (offset in employee benefits expense). The increase in 2016 also reflected higher customer accommodation trading activity within our capital markets business driven by higher fixed income trading gains. Net gains from trading activities do not include interest and dividend income and expense on trading securities. Those amounts are reported within interest income from trading assets and other interest expense from trading liabilities. For additional information about trading activities, see the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management   Market Risk   Trading Activities  section in this Report. 
  Net gains on debt and equity securities totaled   $1.7 billion   for   2017   and   $1.8 billion   and   $3.2 billion   for   2016   and   2015  , respectively, after other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) write-downs of   $606 million  ,   $642 million   and   $559 million  , respectively, for the same periods. The decrease in net gains on debt and equity securities in 2017 compared with 2016 was driven by lower net gains on debt securities, partially offset by higher net gains from equity investments from non-marketable equity investments. The decrease in net gains on debt and equity securities in 2016 compared with 2015 reflected lower net gains from equity investments as our portfolio benefited from strong public and private equity markets in 2015.  
  Lease income of   $1.9 billion   in 2017 was stable compared with 2016. Lease income increased   $1.3 billion   in 2016 compared with 2015, largely driven by the GE Capital business acquisitions. 

All other income was   $1.0 billion   for   2017   compared with   $702 million   in   2016   and   $(115) million   in   2015  . All other income includes ineffectiveness recognized on derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting, the results of certain economic hedges, losses on low income housing tax credit and renewable energy investments, foreign currency adjustments and income from investments accounted for under the equity method, any of which can cause decreases and net losses in other income. The increase in other income in   2017   compared with   2016   was driven by a   $848 million pre-tax gain from the sale of our insurance services business   in fourth quarter 2017 and a $309 million pre-tax gain from the sale of a Pick-a-Pay PCI loan portfolio in second quarter 2017, as well as the impact of the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2017-12     Derivatives and Hedging   in fourth quarter 2017, partially offset by a gain from the sale of our crop insurance business in first quarter 2016 and a gain from the sale of our health benefit services business in second quarter 2016. All other income in 2017 also included $284 million of impairments on low income housing investments and $130 million of impairments on tax-advantaged renewable energy investments in each case due to the Tax Act. The increase in other income in 2016 compared with 2015 was driven by a $374 million pre-tax gain from the sale of our crop insurance business in first quarter 2016,   a $290 million gain from the sale of our health benefit services business   in second quarter 2016, and our proportionate share of earnings from a merchant services joint venture that was deconsolidated in 2015, partially offset by changes in ineffectiveness recognized on interest rate swaps used to hedge our exposure to interest rate risk on long-term debt and cross-currency swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward contracts used to hedge our exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate risk involving non-U.S. dollar denominated long-term debt.  

Earnings Performance   (continued) 

Noninterest Expense 
    
  Table 8:      Noninterest Expense    

Noninterest expense was   $58.5 billion   in   2017  , up   12%   from   $52.4 billion   in   2016  , which was up   5%   from   $50.0 billion   in   2015  . The increase in   2017  , compared with   2016  , was predominantly driven by higher operating losses, personnel expenses, and outside professional and contract services, partially offset by lower insurance and postage, stationery and supplies. The increase in   2016  , compared with   2015  , was driven by higher personnel expenses, operating lease expense, outside professional services and contract services, and FDIC and other deposit assessments, partially offset by lower insurance, operating losses, foreclosed assets expense, and outside data processing.  
  Personnel expenses, which include salaries, commissions, incentive compensation and employee benefits, were up   $1.5 billion  , or   5%   in   2017  , compared with   2016  , due to annual salary increases, higher deferred compensation costs (offset in trading revenue), and higher employee benefits. Personnel expenses were up   $1.2 billion  , or   4%   in   2016  , compared with   2015  , due to annual salary increases, staffing growth driven by the GE Capital business acquisitions and investments in technology and risk management, higher deferred compensation expense (offset in trading revenue) and increased employee benefits.  
  FDIC and other deposit assessments were up   10%   in   2017  , compared with 2016, due to an increase in deposit assessments as a result of a temporary surcharge which became effective on July 1, 2016. The FDIC expects the surcharge to end in third quarter 2018. FDIC and other deposit assessments were up   20%   in   2016  , compared with   2015  , primarily due to the aforementioned temporary surcharge. See the  Regulation and Supervision  section in our   2017   Form 10-K for additional information. 

Operating losses were up   $3.9 billion   in   2017  , compared with   2016  , predominantly due to higher litigation accruals for a variety of matters, including mortgage-related regulatory investigations, sales practices, and other consumer-related matters. Litigation accruals in 2017 included $3.7 billion that were non tax-deductible. Operating losses were down   $263 million  , or   14%  , in   2016   compared with   2015  , predominantly due to lower litigation accruals for various legal matters.  
  Outside professional services expense was up   22%   and contract services expense was up   14%   in   2017  , compared with   2016  . Both increases were driven by higher project and technology spending on regulatory and compliance related initiatives, as well as higher legal expense related to sales practice matters. Outside professional services expense was up   18%   and contract services expense was up   23%   in   2016  , compared with   2015  , driven by investments in our products, technology and service delivery, as well as costs to meet heightened regulatory expectations and cybersecurity risk. 
  Operating lease expense of $1.4 billion in 2017 was relatively stable, compared with   2016  , and was up   $1.1 billion   in   2016  , compared with   2015  , driven by higher depreciation expense on the leased assets acquired from GE Capital.  
  Outside data processing expense was relatively stable compared with   2016   and was down   10%   in   2016  , compared with   2015  . The decrease in 2016, compared with 2015, was due to lower card-related processing expense and the deconsolidation of our merchant services joint venture in fourth quarter 2015, partially offset by increased data processing expense related to the GE Capital business acquisitions. 
  Postage, stationery and supplies expense was down   13%   in   2017  , compared with   2016  , due to lower mail services and supplies expense. Postage, stationery and supplies expense was down   11%   in   2016  , compared with   2015  , driven by lower postage and mail services expense.  
  Telecommunications expense was down   5%   in   2017  , compared with   2016  , and down   13%   in   2016  , compared with   2015  , in each case driven by lower telephone and data rates. 
  Foreclosed assets expense was up   24%   in   2017  , compared with   2016  , due to lower gains on sales of foreclosed properties, partially offset by lower operating expenses. Foreclosed assets expense was down   47%   in   2016  , compared with   2015  , driven by lower operating expense and write-downs, partially offset by lower gains on sales of foreclosed properties.  
  Insurance expense was down   44%   in   2017  , compared with   2016  , predominantly driven by the sale of our crop insurance business in first quarter 2016. Insurance expense was down   60%   in   2016  , compared with   2015  , due to the sale of our crop insurance business in first quarter 2016 and the sale of our Warranty Solutions business in third quarter 2015. 
  All other noninterest expense was down   7%   in   2017  , compared with   2016  , due to lower insurance premium payments and higher gains on the sale of a corporate property, partially offset by higher charitable donations expense. All other noninterest expense was up   9%   in   2016  , compared with 2015, driven by higher insurance premium payments. All other noninterest expense in   2017   included a $199 million contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation, compared with a $107 million contribution in   2016  . 
  Our full year   2017   efficiency ratio was   66.2%  , compared with 59.3% in   2016   and 58.1% in   2015  .  

Income Tax Expense 
  The 2017 annual effective income tax rate was   18.1%  , compared with   31.5%   in 2016 and   31.2%   in 2015. The effective income tax rate for 2017 reflected the estimated impact of the Tax Act, including a benefit of $3.89 billion resulting from the re-measurement of the Company's estimated net deferred tax liability as of December 31, 2017, partially offset by $173 million of tax expense relating to the estimated tax impact of the deemed repatriation of the Company's previously undistributed foreign earnings. The benefit of the Tax Act on the effective income tax rate in 2017 was partially offset by $1.3 billion relating to the tax effect of discrete non tax-deductible items (predominantly litigation accruals). For 2017, we were able to make reasonable estimates and record provisional amounts related to the impacts of the Tax Act. We will complete these calculations during 2018 as we finalize our tax filings for 2017 and finalize our analysis of the Tax Act and applicable interpretive guidance issued by federal and state tax authorities. The effective income tax rate for 2016 reflected a net benefit from the reduction to the reserve for uncertain tax positions resulting from settlements with tax authorities and a net increase in tax benefits related to tax credit investments. The effective income tax rate for 2015 included net reductions in reserves for uncertain tax positions primarily due to audit resolutions of prior period matters with U.S. federal and state taxing authorities. See Note 22 (Income Taxes) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information about our income taxes. 

Operating Segment Results    
  We are organized for management reporting purposes into three operating segments: Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and WIM. These segments are defined by product type and customer segment and their results are based on our management accounting process, for which there is no comprehensive, authoritative financial accounting guidance equivalent to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Commencing in second quarter 2016, operating segment results reflect a shift in expenses between the personnel and other expense categories as a result of the movement of support staff from the Wholesale Banking and WIM segments into a consolidated organization within the Community Banking segment. Since then, personnel expenses associated with the transferred support staff have been allocated from Community Banking back to the Wholesale Banking and WIM segments through other expense. Table 9 and the following discussion present our results by operating segment. For additional description of our operating segments, including additional financial information and the underlying management accounting process, see Note 25 (Operating Segments) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

Table 9:      Operating Segment Results   Highlights    

(1) 
    Includes the elimination of certain items that are included in more than one business segment, most of which represents products and services for WIM customers served through Community Banking distribution channels. 

Earnings Performance   (continued) 

Community Banking   offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses including checking and savings accounts, credit and debit cards, and automobile, student, mortgage, home equity and small business lending, as well as referrals to Wholesale Banking and WIM business partners. The Community Banking segment also includes the results of our Corporate Treasury activities net of allocations (including funds transfer pricing,  

capital, liquidity and certain corporate expenses) in support of other segments and results of investments in our affiliated venture capital partnerships. We announced on November 28, 2017, that we will exit the personal insurance business, and we have begun winding down activities and ceased offering personal insurance products, effective February 1, 2018.   Table 9a   provides additional financial information for Community Banking. 

Table 9a:      Community Banking 

NM - Not meaningful 
           (1) 
    Represents income on products and services for WIM customers served through Community Banking distribution channels and is eliminated in consolidation. 
              (2) 
    Includes syndication and underwriting fees paid to Wells Fargo Securities which are offset in our Wholesale Banking segment. 
              (3) 
    Predominantly represents gains resulting from venture capital investments. 
              (4) 
    Reflects results attributable to noncontrolling interests predominantly associated with the Company s consolidated venture capital investments. 

Community Banking reported net income of   $12.1 billion   in 2017, down   $364 million  , or   3%  , from   $12.4 billion   in 2016, which was down   $1.1 billion  , or   8%  , in 2015. Income tax expense in 2017 reflected the estimated net benefit from the impact of the Tax Act to the Company, partially offset by the impact of discrete non tax-deductible items, predominantly litigation accruals. Revenue was   $48.7 billion   in 2017, a decrease of   $159 million  , or   0.3%  , compared with   $48.9 billion   in 2016, which was down   $475 million  , or   1%  , compared with 2015. The decrease in revenue for 2017 was due to lower mortgage banking revenue driven by lower mortgage loan originations and a decrease in servicing income, lower service charges on deposit accounts, and lower gains on debt securities. The decrease in revenue in 2017 was partially offset by higher net interest income, gains on equity investments, deferred compensation plan investment results (offset in employee benefits expense), and other income (including higher net hedge ineffectiveness income and a gain on the sale of a mortgage loan portfolio). The decrease in revenue for 2016 was due to lower gains on equity investments, and lower mortgage banking revenue driven by a decrease in servicing income, partially offset by higher net gains on mortgage loan originations driven by higher origination volumes. Additionally, revenue in 2016 reflected lower trust and investment fees driven by a decrease in brokerage transactional revenue, and lower other income (including lower net hedge ineffectiveness income and a gain on the sale of our Warranty Solutions business in 2015). The decrease in revenue in 2016 was partially offset by higher net interest income, gains on debt securities, revenue from debit and credit card volumes, higher deferred compensation plan investment results (offset in employee benefits expense), and an increase in deposit service charges driven by higher overdraft fees and account growth. Average deposits increased   $28.1 billion   in 2017, or   4%   from 2016, which increased   $46.8 billion  , or   7%  , from 2015. Primary consumer checking customers (customers who actively use their checking account with transactions such as debit card purchases, online bill payments, and direct deposit) as of November 2017 were up 0.2% from November 2016. 

Noninterest expense increased   $5.1 billion   in 2017, or   18%  , from 2016, which increased   $441 million  , or   2%  , from 2015. The increase in 2017 was due to higher litigation accruals (including $3.7 billion that were non tax-deductible), personnel expense driven by increased health insurance expense, deferred compensation plan expense (offset in trading revenue) and staffing, as well as higher project-related, equipment, and FDIC expense. These increases in noninterest expense were partially offset by lower foreclosed assets expense driven by improvement in the residential real estate portfolio, lower telephone and supplies expenses, travel and entertainment, and other expense. The increase in noninterest expense in 2016 was due to higher personnel expense driven by increased deferred compensation plan expense (offset in trading revenue) and increased staffing, as well as higher project-related, equipment, and FDIC expense. These increases in noninterest expense were partially offset by lower foreclosed assets expense driven by improvement in the residential real estate portfolio, lower telephone and supplies expenses, data processing costs, and other expense.  
  The provision for credit losses in 2017 decreased   $136 million   from 2016 due to credit improvement in the consumer lending portfolio, primarily consumer real estate. The provision for credit losses in 2016 increased $264 million from 2015 due to an increase in losses in the credit card, automobile and other consumer portfolios.  

Earnings Performance   (continued) 

Wholesale Banking   provides financial solutions to businesses across the United States and globally with annual sales generally in excess of $5 million. Products and businesses include Business Banking, Commercial Real Estate, Corporate Banking, Financial Institutions Group, Government and Institutional  

Banking, Middle Market Banking, Principal Investments, Treasury Management, Wells Fargo Commercial Capital, and Wells Fargo Securities.   Table 9b   provides additional financial information for Wholesale Banking. 

Table 9b:      Wholesale Banking 

NM - Not meaningful 

Wholesale Banking reported net income of   $8.7 billion   in 2017, up   $464 million   from 2016, which was up   $41 million   from 2015. The increase in net income in 2017 was due to higher net interest income and lower loan loss provision, partially offset by lower noninterest income and higher noninterest expense  .   The increase in 2016 compared with 2015 was due to increased revenue and lower minority interest expense, partially offset by higher loan loss provision and noninterest expense. Revenue in 2017 of   $28.2 billion   decreased   $369 million  , or   1%  , from 2016, which increased   $2.6 billion  , or   10%  , from 2015. Net interest income of $17.0 billion in 2017 increased   $915 million  , or   6%  , from 2016, which increased   $1.7 billion  , or   12%  , from 2015. The increase in net interest income in 2017 was due to loan and other earning asset growth as well as the impact of higher interest rates, partially offset by an adjustment related to leveraged leases resulting from the Tax Act that reduced net interest income by $183 million. The increase in net interest income in 2016 was due to strong loan and other earning asset growth.  
  Average loans of   $464.6 billion   in 2017 increased   $15.3 billion  , or   3%  , from 2016, which increased   $52.0 billion  , or   13%  , from 2015. Loan growth in 2017 and 2016 was broad based across many Wholesale Banking businesses and included the impact of the GE Capital business acquisitions in 2016. Average deposits of   $464.5 billion   in 2017 increased $25.9 billion, or 6%, compared with   $438.6 billion   in 2016, which was relatively flat compared with 2015.  
  Noninterest income of   $11.2 billion   in 2017 decreased   $1.3 billion  , or   10%  , from 2016, which increased   $936 million  , or   8%  , from 2015. The decrease in 2017 was driven by the gains on the sale of our crop insurance and health benefit services businesses in 2016, impairments to low income housing and renewable energy investments as a result of the Tax Act, lower insurance income driven by the 2016 sale of our crop insurance business, and lower gains on debt securities and equity investments. These declines were partially offset by a gain on the sale of our insurance services business in 2017  .   The increase in 2016, compared with 2015, was driven by increased lease income from the GE Capital business acquisitions, gains on the sale of our crop insurance and health benefit services businesses, increased trust and investment banking revenue driven by syndicated loan, advisory, and debt origination fees, and higher service charges on deposit accounts (which represented treasury management fees for providing cash management payable and receivable services), partially offset by lower gains on debt securities and equity investments, lower insurance income due to the divestiture of our crop insurance business, and lower other fees related to a decline in commercial real estate brokerage fees and the deconsolidation of our merchant services joint venture in fourth quarter 2015, which also lowered 2016 minority interest expense.  

Noninterest expense of   $16.8 billion   in 2017 increased   $629 million  , or   4%  , compared with 2016, which increased   $2.0 billion  , or   14%  , compared with 2015. The increase in 2017 was predominantly due to increased project and technology spending on compliance and regulatory requirements. The increase in 2016 was due to higher personnel and operating lease expense related to the GE Capital business acquisitions as well as higher expenses related to growth initiatives, compliance and regulatory requirements. The provision for credit losses in 2017 decreased   $1.1 billion   from 2016, predominantly due to lower losses in the oil and gas portfolio. The provision for credit losses in 2016 increased   $1.0 billion   from 2015, primarily due to increased losses in the oil and gas portfolio. 
    
  Wealth and Investment Management   provides a full range of personalized wealth management, investment and retirement products and services to clients across U.S. based businesses including Wells Fargo Advisors, The Private Bank, Abbot Downing, Wells Fargo Institutional Retirement and Trust, and Wells Fargo Asset Management. We deliver financial planning, private banking, credit, investment management and fiduciary services to high-net worth and ultra-high-net worth individuals and families. We also serve clients  brokerage needs, supply retirement and trust services to institutional clients and provide investment management capabilities delivered to global institutional clients through separate accounts and the Wells Fargo Funds.   Table 9c   provides additional financial information for WIM. 

Earnings Performance   (continued) 

Table 9c:      Wealth and Investment Management 

NM - Not meaningful 
           (1) 
    Includes syndication and underwriting fees paid to Wells Fargo Securities which are offset in our Wholesale Banking segment. 
       WIM reported net income of   $2.7 billion   in 2017, up   $248 million  , or   10%  , from 2016, which was up   $110 million  , or   5%  , from 2015. Revenue of   $16.9 billion   in 2017 increased   $980 million   from 2016, which was up   $169 million   from 2015. The increase in revenue for 2017 was due to growth in net interest income and asset-based fees. The increase in revenue for 2016 was due to growth in net interest income, partially offset by lower noninterest income. Net interest income increased   15%   in 2017 and   13%   in 2016, in each case due to growth in other earning assets and loan balances. Average loan balances of   $71.9 billion   in 2017 increased   $4.6 billion   from   $67.3 billion   in 2016, which was up   12%   from 2015. Average deposits of   $189.0 billion   in 2017 increased   1%   from   $187.8 billion   in 2016, which increased   9%   from 2015. Noninterest income in 2017 increased   3%   from 2016, due to higher asset-based fees and gains on deferred compensation plan investments (offset in employee benefits expense), partially offset by lower transaction revenue. Noninterest income in 2016 decreased   2%   from 2015 due to lower transaction revenue from reduced client activity, and lower asset-based fees, partially offset by higher gains on deferred compensation plan investments (offset in employee  

benefits expense). Noninterest expense of   $12.6 billion   in 2017 increased   5%   from   $12.1 billion   in 2016 due to higher project and technology spending on compliance and regulatory requirements, higher broker commissions, and higher deferred compensation plan expense (offset in trading revenue). Noninterest expense in 2016 was flat compared with 2015, as a decline in operating losses reflecting lower litigation expense for various legal matters was offset by higher outside professional services expense, other expense, and personnel expense. The provision for credit losses was flat in 2017 compared with 2016. The provision for credit losses increased   $20 million   in 2016, due to lower net recoveries. 

The following discussions provide additional information for client assets we oversee in our retail brokerage advisory and trust and investment management business lines. 
    
  Retail Brokerage Client Assets   Brokerage advisory, commissions and other fees are received for providing full-service and discount brokerage services predominantly to retail brokerage clients. Offering advisory account relationships to our brokerage clients is an important component of our broader strategy of meeting their financial needs. Although a majority of our retail brokerage client assets are in accounts that earn  

brokerage commissions, the fees from those accounts generally represent transactional commissions based on the number and size of transactions executed at the client s direction. Fees earned from advisory accounts are asset-based and depend on changes in the value of the client s assets as well as the level of assets resulting from inflows and outflows. A majority of our brokerage advisory, commissions and other fee income is earned from advisory accounts.   Table 9d   shows advisory account client assets as a percentage of total retail brokerage client assets at   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015  . 

Table 9d:      Retail Brokerage Client Assets 

Retail Brokerage advisory accounts include assets that are financial advisor-directed and separately managed by third-party managers, as well as certain client-directed brokerage assets where we earn a fee for advisory and other services, but do not have investment discretion. These advisory accounts generate fees as a percentage of the market value of the assets, which vary across the account types based on the distinct  

services provided, and are affected by investment performance as well as asset inflows and outflows. For the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , the average fee rate by account type ranged from 80 to 120 basis points.   Table 9e   presents retail brokerage advisory account client assets activity by account type for the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015  . 

Table 9e:      Retail Brokerage Advisory Account Client Assets 

(1) 
    Inflows include new advisory account assets, contributions, dividends and interest. 
              (2) 
    Outflows include closed advisory account assets, withdrawals and client management fees.  
              (3) 
    Market impact reflects gains and losses on portfolio investments. 
              (4) 
    Investment advice and other services are provided to client, but decisions are made by the client and the fees earned are based on a percentage of the advisory account assets, not the number and size of transactions executed by the client. 
              (5) 
    Professionally managed portfolios with fees earned based on respective strategies and as a percentage of certain client assets. 
              (6) 
    Professional advisory portfolios managed by Wells Fargo Asset Management advisors or third-party asset managers. Fees are earned based on a percentage of certain client assets. 
              (7) 
    Program with portfolios constructed of load-waived, no-load and institutional share class mutual funds. Fees are earned based on a percentage of certain client assets. 

Earnings Performance   (continued) 

Trust and Investment Client Assets Under Management   We earn trust and investment management fees from managing and administering assets, including mutual funds, institutional separate accounts, personal trust, employee benefit trust and agency assets through our asset management, wealth and retirement businesses. Our asset management business is conducted by Wells Fargo Asset Management (WFAM), which offers Wells Fargo proprietary mutual funds and manages institutional separate accounts. Our wealth business manages  
  assets for high net worth clients, and our retirement business  

provides total retirement management, investments, and trust and custody solutions tailored to meet the needs of institutional clients. Substantially all of our trust and investment management fee income is earned from AUM where we have discretionary management authority over the investments and generate fees as a percentage of the market value of the AUM.   Table 9f   presents AUM activity for the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015  . 

Table 9f:      WIM Trust and Investment   Assets Under Management 

(1) 
    Inflows include new managed account assets, contributions, dividends and interest. 
              (2) 
    Outflows include closed managed account assets, withdrawals and client management fees. 
              (3) 
    Market impact reflects gains and losses on portfolio investments. 
              (4) 
    Assets managed by WFAM consist of equity, alternative, balanced, fixed income, money market, and stable value, and include client assets that are managed or sub-advised on behalf of other Wells Fargo lines of business. 
              (5) 
    Money Market funds activity is presented on a net inflow or net outflow basis, because the gross flows are not meaningful nor used by management as an indicator of performance. 

Balance Sheet Analysis 

At   December 31, 2017  , our assets totaled   $2.0 trillion  , up   $21.6 billion   from   December 31, 2016  . Asset growth was predominantly due to trading assets, which increased   $17.9 billion  , and investment securities, which increased   $8.5 billion  . An increase of   $29.9 billion   in deposits, and total equity growth of   $7.6 billion   from   December 31, 2016  , were the predominant sources that funded our asset growth for   2017  . Equity growth benefited from a   $12.2 billion   increase in retained earnings, net of dividends paid.  

The following discussion provides additional information about the major components of our balance sheet. Information regarding our capital and changes in our asset mix is included in the  Earnings Performance   Net Interest Income  and  Capital Management  sections and Note 27 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

Investment Securities 
    
  Table 10:      Investment Securities   Summary    

(1) 
    Available-for-sale securities are carried on the balance sheet at fair value. Held-to-maturity securities are carried on the balance sheet at amortized cost. 
       
    Table 10   presents a summary of our investment securities portfolio, which   increased     $8.5 billion   from   December 31, 2016  , predominantly due to net purchases of federal agency mortgage-backed securities. 
  The total net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities were   $1.5 billion   at   December 31, 2017  ,   up   from net unrealized   losses   of   $1.8 billion   at   December 31, 2016  , primarily due to tighter credit spreads and the transfer of available-for-sale securities to held-to-maturity. 
  The size and composition of the investment securities portfolio is largely dependent upon the Company s liquidity and interest rate risk management objectives. Our business generates assets and liabilities, such as loans, deposits and long-term debt, which have different maturities, yields, re-pricing, prepayment characteristics and other provisions that expose us to interest rate and liquidity risk. The available-for-sale securities portfolio predominantly consists of liquid, high quality U.S. Treasury and federal agency debt, agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS), privately-issued residential and commercial MBS, securities issued by U.S. states and political subdivisions, corporate debt securities, and highly rated collateralized loan obligations. Due to its highly liquid nature, the available-for-sale securities portfolio can be used to meet funding needs that arise in the normal course of business or due to market stress. Changes in our interest rate risk profile may occur due to changes in overall economic or market conditions, which could influence loan origination demand, prepayment speeds, or deposit balances and mix. In response, the available-for-sale securities portfolio can be rebalanced to meet the Company s interest rate risk management objectives. In addition to meeting liquidity and interest rate risk management objectives, the available-for-sale securities portfolio may provide yield enhancement over other short-term assets. See the  Risk Management       Asset/Liability Management  section in this Report for more information on liquidity and interest rate risk. The held-to-maturity securities portfolio consists of high quality U.S. Treasury debt, securities  

issued by U.S. states and political subdivisions, agency MBS, asset-backed securities (ABS) primarily collateralized by automobile loans and leases and cash, and collateralized loan obligations where our intent is to hold these securities to maturity and collect the contractual cash flows. The held-to-maturity securities portfolio may also provide yield enhancement over short-term assets. 
  We analyze securities for other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) quarterly or more often if a potential loss-triggering event occurs. Of the   $606 million   in OTTI write-downs recognized in earnings in   2017  ,   $262 million   related to debt securities,   $5 million   related to marketable equity securities, which are included in available-for-sale securities, and   $339 million   related to nonmarketable equity investments, which are included in other assets. For a discussion of our OTTI accounting policies and underlying considerations and analysis, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) and Note 5 (Investment Securities) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
  At   December 31, 2017  , investment securities included   $57.6 billion   of municipal bonds, of which   95.7%   were rated  A-  or better based largely on external and, in some cases, internal ratings. Additionally, some of the securities in our total municipal bond portfolio are guaranteed against loss by bond insurers. These guaranteed bonds are predominantly investment grade and were generally underwritten in accordance with our own investment standards prior to the determination to purchase, without relying on the bond insurer s guarantee in making the investment decision. The credit quality of our municipal bond holdings are monitored as part of our ongoing impairment analysis. 
  The weighted-average expected maturity of debt securities available-for-sale was   6.3   years at   December 31, 2017  . The expected remaining maturity is shorter than the remaining contractual maturity for the   61.3%   of this portfolio that is MBS because borrowers generally have the right to prepay obligations  

Balance Sheet Analysis   (continued) 

before the underlying mortgages mature. The estimated effects of a 200 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates on the fair value and the expected remaining maturity of the MBS available-for-sale portfolio are shown in   Table 11  . 
    
  Table 11:      Mortgage-Backed Securities Available for Sale    

The weighted-average expected maturity of debt securities held-to-maturity was   5.9   years at   December 31, 2017  . See Note 5 (Investment Securities) to Financial Statements in this Report for a summary of investment securities by security type.  

Loan Portfolios 
  Table 12   provides a summary of total outstanding loans by portfolio segment. Total loans decreased   $10.8 billion   from   December 31, 2016  , reflecting paydowns, a continued decline in junior lien mortgage loans, and an expected decline in automobile loans as the effect of tighter underwriting standards implemented in 2016 resulted in lower origination volume. 

Table 12:      Loan Portfolios    

A discussion of average loan balances and a comparative detail of average loan balances is included in   Table 5   under  Earnings Performance   Net Interest Income  earlier in this Report. Additional information on total loans outstanding by portfolio segment and class of financing receivable is included in the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  section in this Report. Period-end balances and other loan related  

information are in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.  
  Table 13   shows contractual loan maturities for loan categories normally not subject to regular periodic principal reduction and the contractual distribution of loans in those categories to changes in interest rates. 

Table 13:      Maturities for Selected Commercial Loan Categories 

Deposits 
  Deposits were   $1.3 trillion   at   December 31, 2017  , up   $29.9 billion   from   December 31, 2016  , reflecting growth in commercial, consumer and small business banking deposits.   Table 14   provides additional information regarding deposits.  

Information regarding the impact of deposits on net interest income and a comparison of average deposit balances is provided in  Earnings Performance   Net Interest Income  and   Table 5   earlier in this Report. 

Table 14:      Deposits 

Equity 
  Total equity was   $208.1 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , compared with   $200.5 billion   at   December 31, 2016  . The increase was largely driven by a   $12.2 billion   increase in retained earnings  

from earnings net of dividends paid, and a   $1.0 billion   increase in cumulative other comprehensive income, partially offset by a net increase in treasury stock. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

In the ordinary course of business, we engage in financial transactions that are not recorded on the balance sheet, or may be recorded on the balance sheet in amounts that are different from the full contract or notional amount of the transaction. Our off-balance sheet arrangements include commitments to lend and purchase securities, transactions with unconsolidated entities, guarantees, derivatives, and other commitments. These transactions are designed to (1) meet the financial needs of customers, (2) manage our credit, market or liquidity risks, and/or (3) diversify our funding sources. 
    
  Commitments to Lend and Purchase Securities 
  We enter into commitments to lend funds to customers, which are usually at a stated interest rate, if funded, and for specific purposes and time periods. When we make commitments, we are exposed to credit risk. However, the maximum credit risk for these commitments will generally be lower than the contractual amount because a significant portion of these commitments is expected to expire without being used by the customer. For more information on lending commitments, see Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report. We may enter into commitments to purchase securities under resale agreements. For more information, see Note 4 (Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Resale Agreements and Other Short-Term Investments) to Financial Statements in this Report. We also may enter into commitments to purchase debt and equity securities to provide capital for customers' funding, liquidity or other future needs. For more information, see Note 14 (Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral, and Other Commitments) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
    
  Transactions with Unconsolidated Entities 
  In the normal course of business, we enter into various types of on- and off-balance sheet transactions with special purpose  

entities (SPEs), which are corporations, trusts, limited liability companies or partnerships that are established for a limited purpose. Generally, SPEs are formed in connection with securitization transactions and are considered variable interest entities (VIEs). For more information on securitizations, including sales proceeds and cash flows from securitizations, see Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
    
  Guarantees and Certain Contingent Arrangements 
  Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us to make payments to a guaranteed party based on an event or a change in an underlying asset, liability, rate or index. Guarantees are generally in the form of standby letters of credit, securities lending and other indemnifications, written put options, recourse obligations and other types of arrangements. For more information on guarantees and certain contingent arrangements, see Note 14 (Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral, and Other Commitments) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
    
  Derivatives 
  We use derivatives to manage exposure to market risk, including interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk, and to assist customers with their risk management objectives. Derivatives are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value, and volume can be measured in terms of the notional amount, which is generally not exchanged, but is used only as the basis on which interest and other payments are determined. The notional amount is not recorded on the balance sheet and is not, when viewed in isolation, a meaningful measure of the risk profile of the instruments. For more information on derivatives, see Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   (continued) 

Contractual Cash Obligations 
  In addition to the contractual commitments and arrangements previously described, which, depending on the nature of the obligation, may or may not require use of our resources, we enter into other contractual obligations that may require future cash payments in the ordinary course of business, including debt issuances for the funding of operations and leases for premises and equipment. 

Table 15   summarizes these contractual obligations as of   December 31, 2017  , excluding the projected cash payments for obligations for short-term borrowing arrangements and pension and postretirement benefit plans. More information on those obligations is in Note 12 (Short-Term Borrowings) and Note 21 (Employee Benefits and Other Expenses) to Financial Statements in this Report.  

Table 15:      Contractual Cash Obligations 

(1) 
    Includes interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing checking, and market rate and other savings accounts. 
              (2) 
    Balances are presented net of unamortized debt discounts and premiums and purchase accounting adjustments. 
              (3) 
    Represents the future interest obligations related to interest-bearing time deposits and long-term debt in the normal course of business including a net reduction of   $9.7 billion   related to hedges used to manage interest rate risk. These interest obligations assume no early debt redemption. We estimated variable interest rate payments using   December 31, 2017  , rates, which we held constant until maturity. We have excluded interest related to structured notes where our payment obligation is contingent on the performance of certain benchmarks. 
              (4) 
    Includes unfunded commitments to purchase debt and equity investments, excluding trade date payables, of   $194 million   and   $2.2 billion  , respectively. Our unfunded equity commitments include certain investments subject to the Volcker Rule, which we expect to divest in the near future. For additional information regarding the Volcker Rule, see the  Regulatory Matters  section in this Report. We have presented predominantly all of our contractual obligations on equity investments above in the maturing in less than one year category as there are no specified contribution dates in the agreements. These obligations may be requested at any time by the investment manager. 
              (5) 
    Represents agreements related to unrecognized obligations to purchase goods or services. 
       We are subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities, and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. We have various unrecognized tax obligations related to these operations that may require future cash tax payments to various taxing authorities. Because of their uncertain nature, the expected timing and amounts of these payments generally are not reasonably estimable or determinable. We attempt to estimate the amount payable in the next 12 months based on the status of our tax examinations and settlement discussions. See Note 22 (Income Taxes) to Financial Statements in this Report for more information. 

Transactions with Related Parties 
  The Related Party Disclosures topic of the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 850 requires disclosure of material related party transactions, other than compensation arrangements, expense allowances and other similar items in the ordinary course of business. Based on ASC 850, we had no transactions required to be reported for the years ended   December 31,     2017  ,   2016   and   2015  . The Company has included within its disclosures information on its equity investments, relationships with variable interest entities, and employee benefit plan arrangements. See Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets), Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities) and Note 21 (Employee Benefits and Other Expenses) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

Risk Management  

Wells Fargo manages a variety of risks that can significantly affect our financial performance and our ability to meet the expectations of our customers, stockholders, regulators and other stakeholders. Among the significant risks that we manage are conduct risk, operational risk, compliance risk, credit risk, and asset/liability management related risks, which include interest rate risk, market risk, liquidity risk, and funding related risks. We operate under a Board-level approved risk framework which outlines our company-wide approach to risk management and oversight, and describes the structures and practices employed to manage current and emerging risks inherent to Wells Fargo.  
    
  Risk Framework 
  Our risk framework consists of three lines of defense   (1) Wells Fargo s lines of business and certain other enterprise functions, (2) Corporate Risk, our Company s primary second-line of defense led by our Chief Risk Officer who reports to the Board s Risk Committee, and (3) Wells Fargo Audit Services, our internal audit function which is led by our Chief Auditor who reports to the Board s Audit   Examination Committee. The Company s primary risk management objectives are: (a) to support the Board as it carries out its risk oversight responsibilities; (b) to support members of senior management in achieving the Company s strategic objectives and priorities by establishing a comprehensive and effective risk framework and enterprise risk inventory; and (c) to maintain and continually promote a strong culture, which emphasizes each team member s responsibility and authority as a risk manager. Key elements of our risk program include: 
             
    Cultivating a   strong culture  , with key risk management components emphasizing each team member s ownership of risk and the Company s bias for conservatism through which we strive to maintain a conservative financial position measured by satisfactory asset quality, capital levels, funding sources, and diversity of revenues. 
                
    Defining and communicating across the Company a   company-wide statement of risk appetite (or, risk tolerance)   which serves to guide business and risk leaders as they manage risk on a daily basis. The company-wide statement of risk appetite describes the nature and magnitude of risk that Wells Fargo is willing to assume in pursuit of its strategic and business objectives. 
                
    Maintaining a   risk management governance structure,   including     escalation protocols and a committee structure, that enables the comprehensive oversight of the Company s risk program and the effective and efficient escalation of risk issues to the appropriate level of the Company for information and decision-making. 
                
    Maintaining an   enterprise risk inventory   and promoting a standardized and systematic process to identify risks across the Company to guide business decisions and capital planning efforts.  

Designing   risk frameworks, programs, policies, procedures, controls, processes, and practices   that are effective and aligned, and facilitate the active and timely management of current and emerging risks across the Company. 
                
    Structuring an   effective and     independent Corporate Risk function   whose primary responsibilities include: (a) establishing and maintaining an effective risk framework, (b) maintaining an independent and comprehensive perspective on the Company s current and emerging risks, (c) independently opining on the strategy and performance of the Company s risk taking activities, (d) credibly challenging the intended business and risk management actions of Wells Fargo s first-line of defense, and (e) reviewing risk management programs and practices across the Company to confirm appropriate coordination and consistency in the application of effective risk management approaches. 
                
    Maintaining     an   independent internal audit     function   that is primarily responsible for adopting a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluating the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes and activities as well as evaluating risk framework adherence to relevant regulatory guidelines and appropriateness for Wells Fargo s size and risk profile. 
       
  The Board and the management-level Operating Committee (composed of direct reports to the CEO and President, including the Chief Risk Officer and Chief Auditor who report to the CEO administratively, and to their respective Board committees functionally) have overall and ultimate responsibility to provide oversight for our three lines of defense and the risks we take, and carry out their oversight through governance committees with specific risk management responsibilities described below. 
    
  Board and Management-level Committee Structure 
  Wells Fargo s Board and management-level governance committee structure is designed to ensure that key risks are considered and, if necessary, decided upon at the appropriate level of the Company and by the appropriate mix of executives. Accordingly, the structure is composed of defined escalation and reporting paths from first-line of defense groups to second-line of defense independent risk and management-level governance committees and, ultimately, to the Board level as appropriate. Each Board and management-level governance committee has defined authorities and responsibilities for considering a specific set of risks, as outlined in each of their charters. Our Board and management-level governance committee structure, and their primary risk oversight responsibilities, is presented in   Table 16  . 

Risk Management (  continued  ) 

Table 16:      Board and Management-level Governance Committee Structure    

Wells Fargo   Company 

Board Committees and Primary Risk Oversight Responsibility 

Audit   Examination Committee (1) 

Corporate Responsibility Committee 

Finance Committee 

Risk Committee (2)  

Governance   Nominating Committee 

Credit Committee 

Human Resources Committee 

Financial, regulatory and risk reporting and controls 
      
    Social and public responsibility matters 
      
    Interest Rate Risk 
  Market Risk 
      
    COMPANY-WIDE RISKS including: 
  - Compliance      - Conduct 
  - Data  
  - Financial Crimes - Information Security 
   - Liquidity 
  - Model 
  - Operational 
  - Strategic 
  - Technology 

Board-level governance matters 

Credit Risk 

Conduct Risk (culture, ethics and integrity, incentive compensation) 

Management-level Governance Committees 

Regulatory and Risk Reporting Oversight Committee 

Capital Adequacy Process Committee 

Enterprise Risk Management Committee (3) 

Corporate Allowance for Credit Losses Approval Governance Committee 

Incentive Compensation Committee 

SOX Disclosure Committee 

Capital Management Committee 

Corporate Asset and Liability Committee 

Recovery and Resolution Committee 

(1) 
    The Audit   Examination Committee additionally oversees the internal audit function, external auditor performance, and the disclosure framework for financial, regulatory and risk reports prepared for the Board, management, and bank regulatory agencies, and assists the Board in its oversight of the Company s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. 
              (2) 
    The Risk Committee has formed a compliance subcommittee and a technology subcommittee to provide more focused oversight of those risks. 
              (3) 
    Certain committees that report to the Enterprise Risk Management Committee have dual escalation and informational reporting paths to Board-level committees. 
       Board Oversight of Risk 
  The business and affairs of the Company are managed under the direction of the Board, whose responsibilities include overseeing the Company s risk management structure. The Board carries out its risk oversight responsibilities directly and through the work of its seven standing committees, which all report to the full Board. Each Board committee works closely with management to understand and oversee the Company s key risk exposures.  
  The Risk Committee oversees company-wide risks. The Board s other standing committees also have primary oversight responsibility for certain specific risk matters, as highlighted in   Table 16  .  
  The Risk Committee additionally oversees the Company's Corporate Risk function and plays an active role in approving and overseeing the Company s company-wide risk management framework established by management to manage risk. The Risk Committee and the full Board review and approve the enterprise statement of risk appetite annually, and the Risk Committee also actively monitors the risk profile relative to the approved risk appetite. 

The full Board receives reports at each of its meetings from the Board committee chairs about committee activities, including risk oversight matters, and the Risk Committee receives a quarterly report from the management-level Enterprise Risk Management Committee regarding current or emerging risk matters. 
    
  Management Oversight of Risk 
  In addition to the Board committees that oversee the Company s risk management framework, the Company has established several management-level governance committees to support Wells Fargo leaders in carrying out their risk management responsibilities. Each risk-focused governance committee has a defined set of authorities and responsibilities specific to one or more risk types. The risk governance committee structure is designed so that significant risks are considered and, if necessary, decided upon at the appropriate level of the Company and by the appropriate mix of executives. 
  The Enterprise Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Company s Chief Risk Officer (CRO), oversees the management of all risk types across the Company. The  

Enterprise Risk Management Committee reports to the Board s Risk Committee, and serves as the focal point for risk governance and oversight at the management level.  
  Corporate Risk develops our enterprise statement of risk appetite in the context of our risk management framework described above. As part of Wells Fargo s risk appetite, we maintain metrics along with associated objectives to measure and monitor the amount of risk that the Company is prepared to take. Actual results of these metrics are reported to the Enterprise Risk Management Committee on a quarterly basis as well as to the Board s Risk Committee. Our operating segments also have business-specific risk appetite statements based on the enterprise statement of risk appetite. The metrics included in the operating segment statements are harmonized with the enterprise level metrics to ensure consistency where appropriate. Business lines also maintain metrics and qualitative statements that are unique to their line of business. This allows for monitoring of risk and definition of risk appetite deeper within the organization. 
  While the Enterprise Risk Management Committee and the committees that report to it serve as the focal point for the management of company-wide risk matters, the management of specific risk types is supported by additional management-level governance committees, which all report to at least one of the Board s standing committees. 
  The Company s management-level governance committees collectively help management facilitate company-wide understanding and monitoring of risks and challenges faced by the Company. 
  The Corporate Risk organization, which is the Company s primary second-line of defense, is headed by the Company s Chief Risk Officer who, among other things, is responsible for setting the strategic direction and driving the execution of Wells Fargo s risk management activities. 
  The Chief Risk Officer, as well as the Chief Risk Officer s direct reports, work closely with the Board s committees and frequently provide reports and updates to the committees and the committee chairs on risk matters during and outside of regular committee meetings, as appropriate. 
  Conduct Risk Management 
  Conduct risk is the risk resulting from behavior that does not comply with the Company s values or ethical principles.  
  Our Board has enhanced its oversight of conduct risk to oversee the alignment of team member conduct to the Company s risk appetite (which the Board approves annually) and culture as reflected in our   Vision, Values and Goals   and     Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. The Board s Risk Committee has primary oversight responsibility for company-wide conduct risk, while certain other Board committees have primary oversight responsibility for specific components of conduct risk. For example, the conduct risk oversight responsibilities of the Board s Human Resources Committee include the Company s human capital management, company-wide culture, the Ethics Oversight program (including the Company s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct), and oversight of our company-wide incentive compensation risk management program. 
  At the management level, the new Conduct Management Office has primary oversight responsibility for key elements of conduct risk, including internal investigations, sales practices oversight, complaints oversight, and ethics oversight. This office reports and is accountable to the CRO and the Enterprise Risk Management Committee and also has direct escalation and informational reporting paths to the relevant Board committees. 

Operational Risk Management 
  Operational risk is the risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal controls and processes, people and systems, or resulting from external events. Operational risk is inherent in all Wells Fargo products and services as it often arises in the presence of other risk types. 
  The Board s Risk Committee has primary oversight responsibility for all aspects of operational risk. In this capacity, it reviews and approves significant supporting operational risk policies and programs, including the Company s business continuity, financial crimes, information security, privacy, technology, and third-party risk management policies and programs. In addition, it periodically reviews updates from management on the overall state of operational risk, including all related programs and risk types.  
  At the management level, the Operational Risk Group has primary oversight responsibility for operational risk. This group reports and is accountable to the CRO and the Enterprise Risk Management Committee, and existing management-level committees with primary oversight responsibility for key elements of operational risk report to it while maintaining relevant dual escalation and informational reporting paths to Board-level committees.  
  Information security is a significant operational risk for financial institutions such as Wells Fargo, and includes the risk of losses resulting from cyber attacks. Wells Fargo and other financial institutions continue to be the target of various evolving and adaptive cyber attacks, including malware and denial-of-service, as part of an effort to disrupt the operations of financial institutions, potentially test their cybersecurity capabilities, or obtain confidential, proprietary or other information. Cyber attacks have also focused on targeting the infrastructure of the internet, causing the widespread unavailability of websites and degrading website performance. Wells Fargo has not experienced any material losses relating to these or other cyber attacks. Addressing cybersecurity risks is a priority for Wells Fargo, and we continue to develop and enhance our controls, processes and systems in order to protect our networks, computers, software and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access. We are also proactively involved in industry cybersecurity efforts and working with other parties, including our third-party service providers and governmental agencies, to continue to enhance defenses and improve resiliency to cybersecurity threats. See the  Risk Factors  section in this Report for additional information regarding the risks associated with a failure or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, including as a result of cyber attacks. 
    
  Compliance Risk Management 
  Compliance risk is the risk resulting from the failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, rules, or other regulatory requirements, or the failure to appropriately address and limit violations of law and any associated harm to customers. Compliance risk encompasses compliance with the applicable standards of self-regulatory organizations as well as with internal policies and procedures. 
  The Board s Risk Committee has primary oversight responsibility for compliance risk. In this capacity, it periodically receives updates and reports from management on the state of compliance risk in the Company.  
  At the management level, Wells Fargo Compliance has primary oversight responsibility for compliance risk. This management-level organization reports and is accountable to the CRO and the Enterprise Risk Management Committee and also has a direct escalation and information reporting path to the  

Risk Management (  continued  ) 

Board's Risk Committee. We continue to enhance our oversight of operational and compliance risk management, including as required by the FRB s February 2, 2018 consent order. 

Credit Risk Management 
  We define credit risk as the risk of loss associated with a borrower or counterparty default (failure to meet obligations in accordance with agreed upon terms). Credit risk exists with many of our assets and exposures such as debt security holdings, certain derivatives, and loans. The following discussion focuses on our loan portfolios, which represent the largest component of assets on our balance sheet for which we have credit risk.  
  Table 17   presents our total loans outstanding by portfolio segment and class of financing receivable. 
    
  Table 17:      Total Loans Outstanding by Portfolio Segment and Class of Financing Receivable 

We manage our credit risk by establishing what we believe are sound credit policies for underwriting new business, while monitoring and reviewing the performance of our existing loan portfolios. We employ various credit risk management and monitoring activities to mitigate risks associated with multiple risk factors affecting loans we hold, could acquire or originate including:  
     Loan concentrations and related credit quality 
     Counterparty credit risk 
     Economic and market conditions 
     Legislative or regulatory mandates 
     Changes in interest rates 
     Merger and acquisition activities 
     Reputation risk 
    
  Our credit risk management oversight process is governed centrally, but provides for decentralized management and accountability by our lines of business. Our overall credit process includes comprehensive credit policies, disciplined credit underwriting, frequent and detailed risk measurement and modeling, extensive credit training programs, and a continual loan review and audit process. 
  A key to our credit risk management is adherence to a well-controlled underwriting process, which we believe is appropriate for the needs of our customers as well as investors who purchase the loans or securities collateralized by the loans. 

Credit Quality Overview        Credit quality improved in   2017  , as our net charge-off rate remained low at   0.31%   of average total loans. We continued to benefit from improvements in the performance of our residential real estate portfolio along with lower losses in our oil and gas portfolio. In particular: 
         
  Additional information on our loan portfolios and our credit quality trends follows. 

PURCHASED CREDIT-IMPAIRED (PCI) LOANS      Loans acquired with evidence of credit deterioration since their origination and where it is probable that we will not collect all contractually required principal and interest payments are PCI loans. Substantially all of our PCI loans were acquired in the Wachovia acquisition on   December 31,   2008. PCI loans are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition, and the historical allowance for credit losses related to these loans is not carried over. The carrying value of PCI loans at   December 31, 2017  , totaled   $12.8 billion  , compared with   $16.7 billion   at   December 31, 2016  , and   $58.8 billion   at December 31, 2008. The decrease from   December 31, 2016  , was due in part to prepayments observed in our Pick-a-Pay PCI portfolio, as well as the sale of $569 million of Pick-a-Pay PCI loans in second quarter 2017. PCI loans are considered to be accruing due to the existence of the accretable yield amount, which represents the cash expected to be collected in excess of their carrying value, and not based on consideration given to contractual interest payments. The accretable yield at   December 31, 2017  , was   $8.9 billion  . 
  A nonaccretable difference is established for PCI loans to absorb losses expected on the contractual amounts of those loans in excess of the fair value recorded at the date of acquisition. Amounts absorbed by the nonaccretable difference do not affect the income statement or the allowance for credit losses. At   December 31, 2017  ,   $474 million   in nonaccretable difference remained to absorb losses on PCI loans.  

For additional information on PCI loans, see the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management   Real Estate 1-4 Family First and Junior Lien Mortgage Loans   Pick-a-Pay Portfolio  section of this Report, Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies ) and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.  
    
  Significant Loan Portfolio Reviews      Measuring and monitoring our credit risk is an ongoing process that tracks delinquencies, collateral values, Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) scores, economic trends by geographic areas, loan-level risk grading for certain portfolios (typically commercial) and other indications of credit risk. Our credit risk monitoring process is designed to enable early identification of developing risk and to support our determination of an appropriate allowance for credit losses. The following discussion provides additional characteristics and analysis of our significant portfolios. See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for more analysis and credit metric information for each of the following portfolios. 
    
  COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOANS AND LEASE FINANCING      For purposes of portfolio risk management, we aggregate commercial and industrial loans and lease financing according to market segmentation and standard industry codes. We generally subject commercial and industrial loans and lease financing to individual risk assessment using our internal borrower and collateral quality ratings. Our ratings are aligned to regulatory definitions of pass and criticized categories with criticized divided between special mention, substandard, doubtful and loss categories. 
  The commercial and industrial loans and lease financing portfolio totaled   $352.5 billion  , or   37%   of total loans, at   December 31, 2017  . The net charge-off rate for this portfolio was   0.15%   in   2017   compared with   0.35%   in   2016  . At   December 31, 2017  ,   0.56%   of this portfolio was nonaccruing, compared with   0.95%   at   December 31, 2016  , reflecting a decrease of   $1.4 billion   in nonaccrual loans, predominantly due to improvement in the oil and gas portfolio. Also,   $17.9 billion   of the commercial and industrial loan and lease financing portfolio was internally classified as criticized in accordance with regulatory guidance at   December 31, 2017  , compared with   $24.0 billion   at   December 31, 2016  . The decrease in criticized loans, which also includes the decrease in nonaccrual loans, was primarily due to improvement in the oil and gas portfolio. 
  Most of our commercial and industrial loans and lease financing portfolio is secured by short-term assets, such as accounts receivable, inventory and securities, as well as long-lived assets, such as equipment and other business assets. Generally, the collateral securing this portfolio represents a secondary source of repayment. 
  Table 18   provides a breakout of commercial and industrial loans and lease financing by industry, and includes   $61.2 billion   of foreign loans at   December 31, 2017  . Foreign loans totaled   $19.2 billion   within the investors category,   $18.4 billion   within the financial institutions category and   $1.4 billion   within the oil and gas category.  
  The investors category includes loans to special purpose vehicles (SPVs) formed by sponsoring entities to invest in financial assets backed predominantly by commercial and residential     real estate or corporate cash flow, and are repaid from the asset cash flows or the sale of assets by the SPV. We limit loan amounts to a percentage of the value of the underlying assets, as determined by us, based on analysis of underlying  

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management (  continued  ) 

credit risk and other factors such as asset duration and ongoing performance. 
  We provide financial institutions with a variety of relationship focused products and services, including loans supporting short-term trade finance and working capital needs. The   $18.4 billion   of foreign loans in the financial institutions category were predominantly originated by our Financial Institutions business. 
   The oil and gas loan portfolio totaled   $12.5 billion  , or   1%   of total outstanding loans at   December 31, 2017  , compared with   $14.8 billion  , or   2%   of total outstanding loans at   December 31, 2016  . Oil and gas nonaccrual loans decreased to   $1.1 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , compared with   $2.4 billion   at   December 31, 2016  , due to improved portfolio performance. 
    
  Table 18:      Commercial and Industrial Loans and Lease Financing by Industry (1) 

(1) 
    Industry categories are based on the North American Industry Classification System and the amounts reported include foreign loans. See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for a breakout of commercial foreign loans. 
              (2) 
    Includes   $86 million   PCI loans, which are considered to be accruing due to the existence of the accretable yield and not based on consideration given to contractual interest payments. 
              (3) 
    No other single industry had total loans in excess of   $6.9 billion  . 

Risk mitigation actions, including the restructuring of repayment terms, securing collateral or guarantees, and entering into extensions, are based on a re-underwriting of the loan and our assessment of the borrower s ability to perform under the agreed-upon terms. Extension terms generally range from six to thirty-six months and may require that the borrower provide additional economic support in the form of partial repayment, or additional collateral or guarantees. In cases where the value of collateral or financial condition of the borrower is insufficient to repay our loan, we may rely upon the support of an outside repayment guarantee in providing the extension. 
  Our ability to seek performance under a guarantee is directly related to the guarantor s creditworthiness, capacity and willingness to perform, which is evaluated on an annual basis, or more frequently as warranted. Our evaluation is based on the most current financial information available and is focused on various key financial metrics, including net worth, leverage, and current and future liquidity. We consider the guarantor s reputation, creditworthiness, and willingness to work with us based on our analysis as well as other lenders  experience with the guarantor. Our assessment of the guarantor s credit strength is reflected in our loan risk ratings for such loans. The loan risk rating and accruing status are important factors in our allowance methodology. 
  In considering the accrual status of the loan, we evaluate the collateral and future cash flows as well as the anticipated support of any repayment guarantor. In many cases, the strength of the guarantor provides sufficient assurance that full repayment of the loan is expected. When full and timely collection of the loan becomes uncertain, including the performance of the guarantor, we place the loan on nonaccrual status. As appropriate, we also charge the loan down in accordance with our charge-off policies, generally to the net realizable value of the collateral securing the loan, if any. 

COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE (CRE)    We generally subject CRE loans to individual risk assessment using our internal borrower and collateral quality ratings. Our ratings are aligned to regulatory definitions of pass and criticized categories with criticized divided among special mention, substandard, doubtful and loss categories. The CRE portfolio, which included   $8.7 billion   of foreign CRE loans, totaled   $150.9 billion  , or   16%   of total loans, at   December 31, 2017  , and consisted of   $126.6 billion   of mortgage loans and   $24.3 billion   of construction loans.  
  Table 19   summarizes CRE loans by state and property type with the related nonaccrual totals. The portfolio is diversified both geographically and by property type. The largest geographic  

concentrations of CRE loans are in California, New York, Texas and Florida, which combined represented   49%   of the total CRE portfolio. By property type, the largest concentrations are office buildings at   28%   and apartments at   16%   of the portfolio. CRE nonaccrual loans totaled   0.4%   of the CRE outstanding balance at   December 31, 2017  , compared with   0.5%   at   December 31, 2016  . At   December 31, 2017  , we had   $4.3 billion   of criticized CRE mortgage loans, compared with   $5.4 billion   at   December 31, 2016  , and   $298 million   of criticized CRE construction loans, compared with   $461 million   at   December 31, 2016  .  

Table 19:      CRE Loans by State and Property Type 

*    Less than 1%. 
           (1) 
    Includes   40   states; no state had loans in excess of   $3.5 billion  . 

FOREIGN LOANS AND COUNTRY RISK EXPOSURE    We classify loans for financial statement and certain regulatory purposes as foreign primarily based on whether the borrower s primary address is outside of the United States. At   December 31, 2017  , foreign loans totaled   $70.4 billion  , representing approximately   7%   of our total consolidated loans outstanding, compared with   $65.7 billion  , or approximately   7%   of total consolidated loans outstanding, at   December 31, 2016  . Foreign loans were approximately   4%   of our consolidated total assets at   December 31, 2017  , and   3%   at   December 31, 2016  . 
  Our country risk monitoring process incorporates frequent dialogue with our financial institution customers, counterparties and regulatory agencies, enhanced by centralized monitoring of  

macroeconomic and capital markets conditions in the respective countries. We establish exposure limits for each country through a centralized oversight process based on customer needs, and in consideration of relevant economic, political, social, legal, and transfer risks. We monitor exposures closely and adjust our country limits in response to changing conditions. 
  We evaluate our individual country risk exposure based on our assessment of the borrower s ability to repay, which gives consideration for allowable transfers of risk such as guarantees and collateral and may be different from the reporting based on the borrower s primary address. Our largest single foreign country exposure based on our assessment of risk at   December 31, 2017  , was the United Kingdom, which totaled  

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management (  continued  ) 

$28.4 billion  , or approximately   1%   of our total assets, and included   $5.0 billion   of sovereign claims. Our United Kingdom sovereign claims arise predominantly from deposits we have placed with the Bank of England pursuant to regulatory requirements in support of our London branch. The United Kingdom officially announced its intention to leave the European Union (Brexit) on March 29, 2017, starting the two-year negotiation process leading to its departure. We continue to conduct assessments and are executing our implementation plans to ensure we can continue to prudently serve our customers post-Brexit. 

Table 20   provides information regarding our top 20 exposures by country (excluding the U.S.) and our Eurozone exposure, based on our assessment of risk, which gives consideration to the country of any guarantors and/or underlying collateral. Our exposure to Puerto Rico (considered part of U.S. exposure) is predominantly through automobile lending and was not material to our consolidated country exposure.  

Table 20:      Select Country Exposures 

(1) 
    Lending exposure includes funded loans and unfunded commitments, leveraged leases, and money market placements presented on a gross basis prior to the deduction of impairment allowance and collateral received under the terms of the credit agreements. For the countries listed above, there are   $551 million   in defeased leases secured significantly by U.S. Treasury and government agency securities. 
              (2) 
    Represents exposure on debt and equity securities of foreign issuers. Long and short positions are netted and net short positions are reflected as negative exposure. 
              (3) 
    Represents counterparty exposure on foreign exchange and derivative contracts, and securities resale and lending agreements. This exposure is presented net of counterparty netting adjustments and reduced by the amount of cash collateral. It includes credit default swaps (CDS) predominantly used for market making activities in the U.S. and London based trading businesses, which sometimes results in selling and purchasing protection on the identical reference entities. Generally, we do not use market instruments such as CDS to hedge the credit risk of our investment or loan positions, although we do use them to manage risk in our trading businesses. At   December 31, 2017  , the gross notional amount of our CDS sold that reference assets in the Top 20 or Eurozone countries was   $287 million  , which was offset by the notional amount of CDS purchased of   $497 million  . We did not have any CDS purchased or sold that reference pools of assets that contain sovereign debt or where the reference asset was solely the sovereign debt of a foreign country. 
              (4) 
    For countries presented in the table, total non-sovereign exposure comprises   $39.7 billion   exposure to financial institutions and   $42.6 billion   to non-financial corporations at   December 31, 2017  . 
              (5) 
    Consists of exposure to Germany, Ireland, Netherlands, Luxembourg and France included in Top 20. 
              (6) 
    Includes non-sovereign exposure to Italy, Portugal, and Greece in the amount of   $154 million  ,   $24 million   and   $2 million  , respectively. We had no sovereign exposure to Portugal and Greece, and the sovereign exposure to Italy was   $8 million   at   December 31, 2017  . 

REAL ESTATE 1-4 FAMILY FIRST AND JUNIOR LIEN MORTGAGE LOANS      Our real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgage loans, as presented in   Table 21  , include loans we have made to customers and retained as part of our asset/liability management strategy, the Pick-a-Pay portfolio acquired  

from Wachovia which is discussed later in this Report and other purchased loans, and loans included on our balance sheet as a result of consolidation of variable interest entities (VIEs). 

Table 21:      Real Estate 1-4 Family First and Junior Lien Mortgage Loans 

The real estate 1-4 family mortgage loan portfolio includes some loans with adjustable-rate features and some with an interest-only feature as part of the loan terms. Interest-only loans were approximately   4%   and   7%   of total loans at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. We believe we have manageable adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) reset risk across our owned mortgage loan portfolios. We do not offer option ARM products, nor do we offer variable-rate mortgage products with fixed payment amounts, commonly referred to within the financial services industry as negative amortizing mortgage loans. The option ARMs we do have are included in the Pick-a-Pay portfolio which was acquired from Wachovia. Since our acquisition of the Pick-a-Pay loan portfolio at the end of 2008, the option payment portion of the portfolio has reduced from 86% to   36%   at   December 31, 2017  , as a result of our modification and loss mitigation efforts. For more information, see the  Pick-a-Pay Portfolio  section in this Report. 
  We continue to modify real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans to assist homeowners and other borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. Loans are generally underwritten at the time of the modification in accordance with underwriting guidelines established for our loan modification programs. Under these programs, we may provide concessions such as interest rate reductions, forbearance of principal, and in some cases, principal forgiveness. These programs generally include trial payment periods of three to four months, and after successful completion and compliance with terms during this period, the loan is permanently modified. Loans included under these programs are accounted for as troubled debt restructurings (TDRs) at the start of a trial period or at the time of permanent modification, if no trial period is used. See the  Critical Accounting Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses  section in this Report for discussion on how we determine the allowance attributable to our modified residential real estate portfolios. 

Part of our credit monitoring includes tracking delinquency, current FICO scores and loan/combined loan to collateral values (LTV/CLTV) on the entire real estate 1-4 family mortgage loan portfolio. These credit risk indicators, which exclude government insured/guaranteed loans, continued to improve in   2017   on the non-PCI mortgage portfolio. Loans 30 days or more delinquent at   December 31, 2017  , totaled   $5.3 billion  , or   2%   of total non-PCI mortgages, compared with   $5.9 billion  , or   2%  , at   December 31, 2016  . Loans with FICO scores lower than 640 totaled   $11.7 billion  , or   4%   of total non-PCI mortgages at   December 31, 2017  , compared with   $16.6 billion  , or   5%  , at   December 31, 2016  . Mortgages with a LTV/CLTV greater than 100% totaled   $6.1 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , or   2%   of total non-PCI mortgages, compared with   $8.9 billion  , or   3%  , at   December 31, 2016  . Information regarding credit quality indicators, including PCI credit quality indicators, can be found in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management (  continued  ) 

Real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgage loans by state are presented in   Table 22  . Our real estate 1-4 family non-PCI mortgage loans to borrowers in California represented   12%   of total loans at   December 31, 2017  , located mostly within the larger metropolitan areas, with no single California metropolitan area consisting of more than   4%   of total loans. We monitor changes in real estate values and underlying economic or market conditions for all geographic areas of our real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgage portfolios as part of our credit risk management process. Our underwriting and periodic review of loans and lines secured by residential real estate collateral includes appraisals or estimates from automated valuation models (AVMs) to support property values. AVMs are computer-based tools used to estimate the market value of homes. AVMs are a lower-cost alternative to appraisals and support valuations of large numbers of properties in a short period of time using market comparables and price trends for local market areas. The primary risk associated with the use of AVMs is that the value of an individual property may vary significantly from the average for the market area. We have processes to periodically validate AVMs and specific risk management guidelines addressing the circumstances when AVMs may be used. AVMs are not allowed in real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgage origination underwriting. Broker evaluations and enhanced desktop appraisal reports are allowed in junior lien originations and some first lien line of credit originations up to $250,000. An appraisal is required for all real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgage commitments greater than $250,000. Additional information about AVMs and our policy for their use can be found in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

Table 22:      Real Estate 1-4 Family First and Junior Lien Mortgage Loans by State 

(1) 
    Consists of   41   states; no state had loans in excess of   $6.8 billion  . 
              (2) 
    Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). 

First Lien Mortgage Portfolio    Our total real estate 1-4 family first lien mortgage portfolio increased   $8.5 billion   in   2017  , as non-conforming loan growth was partially offset by a decline in Pick-a-Pay loan balances. We retained   $49.4 billion   in non-conforming originations, consisting of loans that exceed conventional conforming loan amount limits established by federal government-sponsored entities (GSEs) in   2017  . 
  The credit performance associated with our real estate 1-4 family first lien mortgage portfolio continued to improve in   2017  , as measured through net charge-offs and nonaccrual loans. Net charge-offs as a percentage of average real estate 1-4 family first lien mortgage loans improved to a net recovery of   0.02%   in   2017  , compared with a net charge-off of   0.03%   in   2016  .  

Nonaccrual loans were   $4.1 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , compared with   $5.0 billion   at   December 31, 2016  . Improvement in the credit performance was driven by an improving housing environment. Real estate 1-4 family first lien mortgage loans originated after 2008, which generally utilized tighter underwriting standards, comprised approximately   79%   of our total real estate 1-4 family first lien mortgage portfolio as of   December 31, 2017  .  
  Table 23   shows certain delinquency and loss information for the first lien mortgage portfolio and lists the top five states by outstanding balance. 

Table 23:      First Lien Mortgage Portfolio Performance 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management (  continued  ) 

Pick-a-Pay Portfolio      The Pick-a-Pay portfolio was one of the consumer residential first lien mortgage portfolios we acquired from Wachovia and a majority of the portfolio was identified as PCI loans. 
  The Pick-a-Pay portfolio includes loans that offer payment options (Pick-a-Pay option payment loans), and also includes loans that were originated without the option payment feature, loans that no longer offer the option feature as a result of our modification efforts since the acquisition, and loans where the customer voluntarily converted to a fixed-rate product. The Pick-a-Pay portfolio is included in the consumer real estate 1-4 family first mortgage class of loans throughout this Report.   Table 24   provides balances by types of loans as of   December 31, 2017  . As a  

result of our loan modification and loss mitigation efforts, Pick-a-Pay option payment loans have been reduced to $10.9 billion at December 31, 2017, from $99.9 billion at acquisition. 
  Total adjusted unpaid principal balance of Pick-a-Pay PCI loans was   $16.7 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , compared with   $61.0 billion   at acquisition. Due to loan modification and loss mitigation efforts, the adjusted unpaid principal balance of option payment PCI loans has declined to   14%   of the total Pick-a-Pay portfolio at   December 31, 2017  , compared with   51%   at acquisition. We expect to close on the sale of approximately $2.0 billion unpaid principal balance of Pick-a-Pay PCI loans in first quarter 2018. 

Table 24:      Pick-a-Pay Portfolio   Comparison to Acquisition Date 

(1) 
    Adjusted unpaid principal balance includes write-downs taken on loans where severe delinquency (normally 180 days) or other indications of severe borrower financial stress exist that indicate there will be a loss of contractually due amounts upon final resolution of the loan. 
       
    Pick-a-Pay option payment loans may have fixed or adjustable rates with payment options that include a minimum payment, an interest-only payment or fully amortizing payment (both 15 and 30 year options). 
  Since December 31, 2008, we have completed over   138,000   proprietary and Home Affordability Modification Program (HAMP) Pick-a-Pay loan modifications, which have resulted in over   $6.1 billion   of principal forgiveness. We have also provided interest rate reductions and loan term extensions to enable sustainable homeownership for our Pick-a-Pay customers. As a result of these loss mitigation programs, approximately   71%   of our Pick-a-Pay PCI adjusted unpaid principal balance as of   December 31, 2017  , has been modified. 
  The predominant portion of our PCI loans is included in the Pick-a-Pay portfolio. Our cash flows expected to be collected have been favorably affected over time by lower expected defaults and losses as a result of observed and forecasted economic strengthening, particularly in housing prices, and our loan modification efforts. Since acquisition, we have reclassified $8.9 billion from the nonaccretable difference to the accretable yield. Fluctuations in the accretable yield are driven by changes in interest rate indices for variable rate PCI loans, prepayment assumptions, and expected principal and interest payments over the estimated life of the portfolio, which will be affected by the pace and degree of improvements in the U.S. economy and housing markets and projected lifetime performance resulting from loan modification activity. Changes in the projected timing of cash flow events, including loan liquidations, modifications and short sales, can also affect the accretable yield and the estimated weighted-average life of the portfolio. 

An increase in expected prepayments and passage of time lowered our estimated weighted-average life to approximately   6.8   years at   December 31, 2017  , from   7.4   years at   December 31, 2016  . The accretable yield percentage for Pick-a-Pay PCI loans for fourth quarter 2017 was   9.83%  , up from   8.22%   for fourth quarter 2016, due to the increase in the amount of accretable yield relative to the shortened weighted-average life.  
  For further information on the judgment involved in estimating expected cash flows for PCI loans, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

Junior Lien Mortgage Portfolio    The junior lien mortgage portfolio consists of residential mortgage lines and loans that are subordinate in rights to an existing lien on the same property. It is not unusual for these lines and loans to have draw periods, interest only payments, balloon payments, adjustable rates and similar features. Junior lien loan products are   mostly   amortizing payment loans with fixed interest rates and repayment periods between five to 30 years.  
  We continuously monitor the credit performance of our junior lien mortgage portfolio for trends and factors that influence the frequency and severity of loss. We have observed that the severity of loss for junior lien mortgages is high and generally not affected by whether we or a third party own or service the related first lien mortgage, but the frequency of delinquency is typically lower when we own or service the first lien mortgage. In general, we have limited information available on the delinquency status of the third party owned or serviced senior lien where we also hold a junior lien. To capture this inherent loss content, our allowance process for junior lien mortgages considers the relative difference in loss experience for junior lien mortgages behind first lien mortgage loans we own or service, compared with those behind first lien mortgage loans owned or serviced by third parties. In addition, our allowance process for junior lien mortgages that are current, but are in  

their revolving period, considers the inherent loss where the borrower is delinquent on the corresponding first lien mortgage loans. 
    Table 25   shows certain delinquency and loss information for the junior lien mortgage portfolio and lists the top five states by outstanding balance. The decrease in outstanding balances since   December 31, 2016  ,   predominantly   reflects loan paydowns. As of   December 31, 2017  ,   9%   of the outstanding balance of the junior lien mortgage portfolio was associated with loans that had a combined loan to value (CLTV) ratio in excess of 100%. Of those junior lien mortgages with a CLTV ratio in excess of 100%,   3.29%   were 30 days or more past due. CLTV means the ratio of the total loan balance of first lien mortgages and junior lien mortgages (including unused line amounts for credit line products) to property collateral value. The unsecured portion (the outstanding amount that was in excess of the most recent property collateral value) of the outstanding balances of these loans totaled   3%   of the junior lien mortgage portfolio at   December 31, 2017  . For additional information on consumer loans by LTV/CLTV, see   Table 6.12   in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.     

Table 25:      Junior Lien Mortgage Portfolio Performance  

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management (  continued  ) 

Our junior lien, as well as first lien, lines of credit portfolios generally have draw periods of 10, 15 or 20 years with variable interest rate and payment options during the draw period of (1) interest only or (2) 1.5% of outstanding principal balance plus accrued interest. During the draw period, the borrower has the option of converting all or a portion of the line from a variable interest rate to a fixed rate with terms including interest-only payments for a fixed period between three to seven years or a fully amortizing payment with a fixed period between five to 30 years. At the end of the draw period, a line of credit generally converts to an amortizing payment schedule with repayment terms of up to 30 years based on the balance at time of conversion. Certain lines and loans have been structured with a balloon payment, which requires full repayment of the outstanding balance at the end of the term period. The conversion of lines or loans to fully amortizing or balloon payoff may result in a significant payment increase, which can affect some borrowers  ability to repay the outstanding balance. 
  On a monthly basis, we monitor the payment characteristics of borrowers in our junior lien portfolio. In   December     2017  , approximately   48%   of these borrowers paid only the minimum amount due and approximately   46%   paid more than the minimum amount due. The rest were either delinquent or paid less than the minimum amount due. For the borrowers with an interest only payment feature, approximately   31%   paid only the  

minimum amount due and approximately   64%   paid more than the minimum amount due. 
  The lines that enter their amortization period may experience higher delinquencies and higher loss rates than the ones in their draw or term period. We have considered this increased inherent risk in our allowance for credit loss estimate. 
  In anticipation of our borrowers reaching the end of their contractual commitment, we have created a program to inform, educate and help these borrowers transition from interest-only to fully-amortizing payments or full repayment. We monitor the performance of the borrowers moving through the program in an effort to refine our ongoing program strategy. 
  Table 26   reflects the outstanding balance of our portfolio of junior lien mortgages, including lines and loans, and senior lien lines segregated into scheduled end of draw or end of term periods and products that are currently amortizing, or in balloon repayment status. It excludes real estate 1-4 family first lien line reverse mortgages, which total   $132 million  , because they are   predominantly   insured by the FHA, and it excludes PCI loans, which total   $49 million  , because their losses were generally reflected in our nonaccretable difference established at the date of acquisition. 

Table 26:      Junior Lien Mortgage Line and Loan and Senior Lien Mortgage Line Portfolios Payment Schedule 

(1) 
    Substantially all   lines and loans are scheduled to convert to amortizing loans by the end of 2026, with annual scheduled amounts through that date ranging from   $4.1 billion   to   $7.0 billion   and averaging   $5.6 billion   per year. 
              (2) 
    Junior and first lien lines are   primarily   interest-only during their draw period. The unfunded credit commitments for junior and first lien lines totaled   $62.3 billion   at   December 31, 2017  . 
         
  CREDIT CARDS      Our credit card portfolio totaled   $38.0 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , which represented   4%   of our total outstanding loans. The net charge-off rate for our credit card portfolio was   3.49%   for   2017  , compared with   3.08%   for   2016  , principally from seasoning of newer vintages. 
    
  AUTOMOBILE      Our automobile portfolio, predominantly composed of indirect loans, totaled   $53.4 billion   at   December 31, 2017  . The net charge-off rate for our automobile portfolio was   1.18%   for   2017  , compared with   0.84%   for   2016  . The increase in net charge-offs in 2017, compared with 2016, was due to 
  increased loss severities resulting from a temporary moratorium 
  on certain repossessions for customers who have had CPI policies purchased on their behalf while we remediate the previously disclosed CPI issues, as well as updated industry regulatory guidance regarding the timing of loss recognition for automobile loans in bankruptcy, and also reflected the current trend of increased charge-offs in the automobile lending industry.  

We have entered into an agreement to sell certain assets and liabilities of Reliable Financial Services Inc. and Reliable Finance Holding Company, which are subsidiaries of Wells Fargo s auto financing business in Puerto Rico. The sale, consisting of approximately $1.5 billion in consumer auto loans and $340 million in commercial loans, is expected to close in second quarter 2018. 
    
  OTHER REVOLVING CREDIT AND INSTALLMENT      Other revolving credit and installment loans totaled   $38.3 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , and primarily included student and security-based loans. Our private student loan portfolio totaled $  11.9 billion   at   December 31, 2017  . All remaining student loans guaranteed by agencies on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) were sold as of March 31, 2017. The net charge-off rate for other revolving credit and installment loans was   1.52%   for   2017  , compared with   1.46%   for   2016  . 

NONPERFORMING ASSETS (NONACCRUAL LOANS AND FORECLOSED ASSETS)      Table 27   summarizes nonperforming assets (NPAs) for each of the last five years. We generally place loans on nonaccrual status when: 
             
    the full and timely collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain (generally based on an assessment of the borrower s financial condition and the adequacy of collateral, if any); 
                
    they are 90 days (120 days with respect to real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages) past due for interest or principal, unless both well-secured and in the process of collection; 
                
    part of the principal balance has been charged off; 
                
    for junior lien mortgages, we have evidence that the related first lien mortgage may be 120 days past due or in the process of foreclosure regardless of the junior lien delinquency status; or  
                
    consumer real estate and automobile loans receive notification of bankruptcy, regardless of their delinquency status. 

Credit card loans are not placed on nonaccrual status, but are generally fully charged off when the loan reaches 180 days past due. 
  Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   Loans) to Financial Statements in this Report describes our accounting policy for nonaccrual and impaired loans. 
  Nonaccrual loans were   $8.0 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , down   $2.4 billion   from   $10.4 billion   at   December 31, 2016  , due to a   $1.3 billion   decrease in commercial and industrial nonaccruals reflecting continued improvement in the oil and gas portfolio, as well as a decrease of   $1.0 billion   in consumer real estate nonaccruals. 

Table 27:      Nonperforming Assets (Nonaccrual Loans and Foreclosed Assets) 

(2) 
    Excludes PCI loans because they continue to earn interest income from accretable yield, independent of performance in accordance with their contractual terms. 
              (3) 
    Real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA and student loans largely guaranteed by agencies on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under the FFELP are not placed on nonaccrual status because they are insured or guaranteed. All remaining student loans guaranteed under the FFELP were sold as of March 31, 2017. 
              (4) 
    See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for further information on impaired loans. 
              (5) 
    During fourth quarter 2014, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-14,   Classification of Certain Government-Guaranteed Mortgage Loans Upon Foreclosure  , effective as of January 1, 2014. This ASU requires that certain government guaranteed residential real estate mortgage loans that meet specific criteria be recognized as other receivables upon foreclosure; previously, these assets were included in foreclosed assets. Government guaranteed residential real estate mortgage loans that completed foreclosure during 2014 and met the criteria specified by ASU 2014-14 are excluded from this table and included in Accounts Receivable in Other Assets. For more information on the classification of certain government-guaranteed mortgage loans upon foreclosure, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management (  continued  ) 

Table 28   provides a summary of nonperforming assets during   2017  . 

Table 28:      Nonperforming Assets by Quarter During 2017 

(1) 
    Includes an incremental $171 million of nonaccrual loans at September 30, 2017, reflecting updated industry regulatory guidance related to loans in bankruptcy. 

Table 29   provides an analysis of the changes in nonaccrual loans. 

Table 29:      Analysis of Changes in Nonaccrual Loans 

(1) 
    Quarter ended September 30, 2017, includes an incremental $171 million of nonaccrual loans, reflecting updated industry regulatory guidance related to loans in bankruptcy.  
       
    Typically, changes to nonaccrual loans period-over-period represent inflows for loans that are placed on nonaccrual status in accordance with our policy, offset by reductions for loans that are paid down, charged off, sold, foreclosed, or are no longer classified as nonaccrual as a result of continued performance and an improvement in the borrower s financial condition and loan repayment capabilities. Also, reductions can come from borrower repayments even if the loan remains on nonaccrual. 
  While nonaccrual loans are not free of loss content, we believe exposure to loss is significantly mitigated by the following factors at   December 31, 2017  : 
             
    99%   of total commercial nonaccrual loans and   99%   of total consumer nonaccrual loans are secured. Of the consumer nonaccrual loans,   97%   are secured by real estate and   82%   have a combined LTV (CLTV) ratio of 80% or less. 
                
    losses of   $402 million   and   $1.8 billion   have already been recognized on   18%   of commercial nonaccrual loans and   43%   of consumer nonaccrual loans, respectively. Generally, when a consumer real estate loan is 120 days past due (except when required earlier by guidance issued by bank regulatory agencies), we transfer it to nonaccrual status. When the loan reaches 180 days past due, or is active or discharged in bankruptcy, it is our policy to write these loans down to net realizable value (fair value of collateral less estimated costs to sell). Thereafter, we re-evaluate each loan regularly and record additional write-downs if needed. 
                
    85%   of commercial nonaccrual loans were current on interest, but were on nonaccrual status because the full or timely collection of interest or principal had become uncertain. 

79% of commercial nonaccrual loans were current on both principal and interest, but will remain on nonaccrual status until the full and timely collection of principal and interest becomes certain. 
                
    the remaining risk of loss of all nonaccrual loans has been considered and we believe is adequately covered by the allowance for loan losses.  
                
    of   $2.3 billion   of consumer loans in bankruptcy or discharged in bankruptcy, and classified as nonaccrual,   $1.5 billion   were current. 
       
  We continue to work with our customers experiencing financial difficulty to determine if they can qualify for a loan modification so that they can stay in their homes. Under both our proprietary modification programs and the Making Home Affordable (MHA) programs, customers may be required to provide updated documentation, and some programs require completion of payment during trial periods to demonstrate sustained performance before the loan can be removed from nonaccrual status.  
  If interest due on all nonaccrual loans (including loans that were, but are no longer on nonaccrual at year end) had been accrued under the original terms, approximately   $525 million   of interest would have been recorded as income on these loans, compared with   $404 million   actually recorded as interest income in   2017  , versus   $658 million   and   $481 million  , respectively, in   2016  . 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management (  continued  ) 

Table 30   provides a summary of foreclosed assets and an analysis of changes in foreclosed assets. 

Table 30:      Foreclosed Assets 

(1) 
    During fourth quarter 2016, we evaluated a population of foreclosed properties that were previously security for FHA insured loans, and made the decision to retain some of the properties as foreclosed real estate, thereby foregoing the FHA insurance claim. Accordingly, the loans for which we decided not to file a claim are reported as additions to foreclosed assets rather than included as net change in government insured/guaranteed foreclosures.  
              (2) 
    Foreclosed government insured/guaranteed loans are temporarily transferred to and held by us as servicer, until reimbursement is received from FHA or VA. The net change in government insured/guaranteed foreclosed assets is generally made up of inflows from mortgages held for investment and MHFS, and outflows when we are reimbursed by FHA/VA.  
              (3) 
    Includes loans moved into foreclosure from nonaccrual status, PCI loans transitioned directly to foreclosed assets and repossessed automobiles. 
       
    Foreclosed assets at   December 31, 2017  , included $  372 million   of foreclosed residential real estate, of which   32%   is predominantly FHA insured or VA guaranteed and expected to have minimal or no loss content. The remaining foreclosed assets balance of   $270 million   has been written down to estimated net realizable value. Of the   $642 million   in foreclosed assets at   December 31, 2017  ,   55%   have been in the foreclosed assets portfolio one year or less. 

TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs) 

Table 31:      Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs) 

Table 32:      TDRs Balance by Quarter During 2017 

Table 31   and   Table 32   provide information regarding the recorded investment of loans modified in TDRs. The allowance for loan losses for TDRs was   $1.6 billion   and   $2.2 billion   at December 31,   2017   and   2016  , respectively. See Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information regarding TDRs. In those situations where principal is forgiven, the entire amount of such forgiveness is immediately charged off to the extent not done so prior to the modification. When we delay the timing on the repayment of a portion of principal (principal forbearance), we  

charge off the amount of forbearance if that amount is not considered fully collectible. 
  Our nonaccrual policies are generally the same for all loan types when a restructuring is involved. We typically re-underwrite loans at the time of restructuring to determine whether there is sufficient evidence of sustained repayment capacity based on the borrower s documented income, debt to income ratios, and other factors. Loans lacking sufficient evidence of sustained repayment capacity at the time of modification are charged down to the fair value of the collateral,  

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management (  continued  ) 

if applicable. For an accruing loan that has been modified, if the borrower has demonstrated performance under the previous terms and the underwriting process shows the capacity to continue to perform under the restructured terms, the loan will generally remain in accruing status. Otherwise, the loan will be placed in nonaccrual status and may be returned to accruing status when the borrower demonstrates a sustained period of performance, generally six consecutive months of payments, or equivalent, inclusive of consecutive payments made prior to modification. Loans will also be placed on nonaccrual, and a corresponding charge-off is recorded to the loan balance, when  

we believe that principal and interest contractually due under the modified agreement will not be collectible. 
  Table 33   provides an analysis of the changes in TDRs. Loans modified more than once are reported as TDR inflows only in the period they are first modified. Other than resolutions such as foreclosures, sales and transfers to held for sale, we may remove loans held for investment from TDR classification, but only if they have been refinanced or restructured at market terms and qualify as a new loan.   

Table 33:      Analysis of Changes in TDRs 

(1) 
    Inflows include loans that modify, even if they resolve, within the period as well as advances on loans that modified in a prior period. 
              (2) 
    Other outflows include normal amortization/accretion of loan basis adjustments and loans transferred to held-for-sale. It also includes $  6 million   of loans refinanced or restructured at market terms and qualifying as new loans and removed from TDR classification for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, while no loans were removed from TDR classification for the quarters ended December 31, June 30 and March 31, 2017. During   2016  ,   $4 million   of loans refinanced or structured as new loans and were removed from TDR classification.  
              (3) 
    Net change in trial modifications includes: inflows of new TDRs entering the trial payment period, net of outflows for modifications that either (i) successfully perform and enter into a permanent modification, or (ii) did not successfully perform according to the terms of the trial period plan and are subsequently charged-off, foreclosed upon or otherwise resolved.  

LOANS 90 DAYS OR MORE PAST DUE AND STILL ACCRUING    Loans 90 days or more past due as to interest or principal are still accruing if they are (1) well-secured and in the process of collection or (2) real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans or consumer loans exempt under regulatory rules from being classified as nonaccrual until later delinquency, usually 120 days past due. PCI loans are not included in past due and still accruing loans even when they are 90 days or more contractually past due. These PCI loans are considered to be accruing because they continue to earn interest from accretable yield, independent of performance in accordance with their contractual terms. 
  Excluding insured/guaranteed loans, loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing at   December 31, 2017  , were up $  91 million  , or   9%  , from   December 31, 2016  , due to increases related to loan growth in real estate 1-4 family first mortgages and credit cards, as well as higher delinquencies in automobile loans resulting from the impact of the temporary moratorium on repossession activity for loans with CPI policies, which allowed  

aging of those loans to continue up to 120 days, and overall increases in delinquencies in the automobile lending industry. These increases were partially offset by declines in commercial real estate mortgages and other revolving credit and installment loans. 
  Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA for mortgages were   $10.9 billion   at both   December 31, 2017   and 2016. All remaining student loans guaranteed by agencies on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under the FFELP were sold as of March 31, 2017. 
  Table 34   reflects non-PCI loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing by class for loans not government insured/guaranteed. For additional information on delinquencies by loan class, see Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

Table 34:      Loans 90 Days or More Past Due and Still Accruing 

(2) 
    Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA. 
              (3) 
    Includes mortgages held for sale 90 days or more past due and still accruing. 
              (4) 
    Represents loans whose repayments are largely guaranteed by agencies on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under the FFELP. All remaining student loans guaranteed under the FFELP were sold as of March 31, 2017. 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management (  continued  ) 

NET CHARGE-OFFS 
    
  Table 35:      Net Charge-offs    

(1) 
    Quarterly net charge-offs (recoveries) as a percentage of average respective loans are annualized. 
       
    Table 35   presents net charge-offs for the four quarters and full year of   2017   and   2016  . Net charge-offs in   2017   were   $2.9 billion   (  0.31%   of average total loans outstanding) compared with   $3.5 billion   (  0.37%  ) in   2016  .  
  The decrease in commercial and industrial net charge-offs in 2017 reflected continued improvement in our oil and gas portfolio. Our commercial real estate portfolios were in a net recovery position every quarter in 2017 and 2016. Total consumer net charge-offs increased slightly from the prior year due to an increase in credit card and automobile net charge-offs, partially offset by a decrease in residential real estate net  charge-offs. 

ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES      The allowance for credit losses, which consists of the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for unfunded credit commitments, is management s estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date, excluding loans carried at fair value. The detail of the changes in the allowance for credit losses by portfolio segment (including charge-offs and recoveries by loan class) is in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
  We apply a disciplined process and methodology to establish our allowance for credit losses each quarter. This process takes into consideration many factors, including historical and forecasted loss trends, loan-level credit quality ratings and loan grade-specific characteristics. The process involves subjective and complex judgments. In addition, we review a variety of credit metrics and trends. These credit metrics and trends, however, do not solely determine the amount of the allowance as we use several analytical tools. Our  

estimation approach for the commercial portfolio reflects the estimated probability of default in accordance with the borrower s financial strength, and the severity of loss in the event of default, considering the quality of any underlying collateral. Probability of default and severity at the time of default are statistically derived through historical observations of defaults and losses after default within each credit risk rating. Our estimation approach for the consumer portfolio uses forecasted losses that represent our best estimate of inherent loss based on historical experience, quantitative and other mathematical techniques. For additional information on our allowance for credit losses, see the  Critical Accounting Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses  section and Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
  Table 36   presents the allocation of the allowance for credit losses by loan segment and class for the last five years. 

Table 36:      Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL) 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management (  continued  ) 

In addition to the allowance for credit losses, there was   $474 million   at   December 31, 2017  , and   $954 million   at   December 31, 2016  , of nonaccretable difference to absorb losses for PCI loans, which totaled   $12.8 billion   at   December 31, 2017  . The allowance for credit losses is lower than otherwise would have been required without PCI loan accounting. As a result of PCI loans, certain ratios of the Company may not be directly comparable with credit-related metrics for other financial institutions. Additionally, loans purchased at fair value, including loans from the GE Capital business acquisitions in 2016, generally reflect a lifetime credit loss adjustment and therefore do not initially require additions to the allowance as is typically associated with loan growth. For additional information on PCI loans, see the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management   Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans  section, Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report.  
  The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to total nonaccrual loans may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to such factors as the mix of loan types in the portfolio, borrower credit strength and the value and marketability of collateral.  
  The allowance for credit losses   decreased     $580 million  , or   5%  , in   2017  , due to a decrease in our commercial allowance reflecting credit quality improvement, including in the oil and gas portfolio, as well as improvement in our residential real estate portfolios, partially offset by increased allowance in the credit card, automobile and other revolving credit and installment portfolios. Total provision for credit losses was   $2.5 billion   in   2017  ,   $3.8 billion   in   2016   and   $2.4 billion   in   2015  . The provision for credit losses was   $400 million   less than net charge-offs in   2017  , reflecting improvement in the oil and gas portfolio, compared with   $250 million   more than net charge-offs in 2016. The   2015   provision was   $450 million   less than net charge-offs. 

We believe the allowance for credit losses of   $12.0 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , was appropriate to cover credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments, at that date. Approximately   $694 million   of the allowance at   December 31, 2017  , was allocated to our oil and gas portfolio, compared with   $1.3 billion   at   December 31, 2016  . This represented   5.6%   and   8.5%   of total oil and gas loans outstanding at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. However, the entire allowance is available to absorb credit losses inherent in the total loan portfolio. The allowance for credit losses is subject to change and reflects existing factors as of the date of determination, including economic or market conditions and ongoing internal and external examination processes. Due to the sensitivity of the allowance for credit losses to changes in the economic and business environment, it is possible that we will incur incremental credit losses not anticipated as of the balance sheet date. Future allowance levels will be based on a variety of factors, including loan growth, portfolio performance and general economic conditions. Our process for determining the allowance for credit losses is discussed in the  Critical Accounting Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses  section and Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

LIABILITY FOR MORTGAGE LOAN REPURCHASE LOSSES     
  We sell residential mortgage loans to various parties, including (1) government-sponsored entities (GSEs) Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) who include the mortgage loans in GSE-guaranteed mortgage securitizations, (2) SPEs that issue private label MBS, and (3) other financial institutions that purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. In addition, we pool FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed mortgage loans that are then used to back securities guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA). We may be required to repurchase these mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred on loans (collectively, repurchase) in the event of a breach of contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied within a period (usually 90 days or less) after we receive notice of the breach.  
  In connection with our sales and securitization of residential mortgage loans to various parties, we have established a mortgage repurchase liability, initially at fair value, related to various representations and warranties that reflect management s estimate of losses for loans for which we could have a repurchase obligation, whether or not we currently service those loans, based on a combination of factors. Our mortgage repurchase liability estimation process also incorporates a forecast of repurchase demands associated with mortgage insurance rescission activity. 
  Because we typically retain the servicing for the mortgage loans we sell or securitize, we believe the quality of our residential mortgage loan servicing portfolio provides helpful information in evaluating our repurchase liability. Of the   $1.6 trillion   in the residential mortgage loan servicing portfolio at   December 31, 2017  ,   95%   was current and less than   1%   was subprime at origination. Our combined delinquency and foreclosure rate on this portfolio was   5.14%   at   December 31, 2017  , compared with   4.83%   at   December 31, 2016  . Two percent of this portfolio is private label securitizations for which we originated the loans and, therefore, have some repurchase risk. 

The overall level of unresolved repurchase demands and mortgage insurance rescissions outstanding at   December 31, 2017  , was   $108 million  , representing   482   loans, down from   $125 million  , or   597   loans, a year ago both in number of outstanding loans and in total dollar balances. The decrease was predominantly due to private investor demands resolved with minimal repurchase risk. 
  Customary with industry practice, we have the right of recourse against correspondent lenders from whom we have purchased loans with respect to representations and warranties. Historical recovery rates as well as projected lender performance are incorporated in the establishment of our mortgage repurchase liability. 
  We do not typically receive repurchase requests from GNMA, FHA and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) or VA. As an originator of an FHA-insured or VA-guaranteed loan, we are responsible for obtaining the insurance with the FHA or the guarantee with the VA. To the extent we are not able to obtain the insurance or the guarantee we must request permission to repurchase the loan from the GNMA pool. Such repurchases from GNMA pools typically represent a self-initiated process upon discovery of the uninsurable loan (usually within 180 days from funding of the loan). Alternatively, in lieu of repurchasing loans from GNMA pools, we may be asked by FHA/HUD or the VA to indemnify them (as applicable) for defects found in the Post Endorsement Technical Review process or audits performed by FHA/HUD or the VA. The Post Endorsement Technical Review is a process whereby HUD performs underwriting audits of closed/insured FHA loans for potential deficiencies. Our liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses incorporates probable losses associated with such indemnification. 
  Table 37   summarizes the changes in our mortgage repurchase liability. We incurred net losses on repurchased loans and investor reimbursements totaling   $19 million   in   2017  , compared with $  46 million   in   2016  . 

Table 37:      Changes in Mortgage Repurchase Liability 

(1) 
    Represents repurchase liability associated with portfolio of loans underlying mortgage servicing rights acquired during the period. 
              (2) 
    Results from changes in investor demand and mortgage insurer practices, credit deterioration and changes in the financial stability of correspondent lenders. 

Risk Management   Credit Risk Management (  continued  ) 

Our liability for mortgage repurchases, included in  Accrued expenses and other liabilities  in our consolidated balance sheet, represents our best estimate of the probable loss that we expect to incur for various representations and warranties in the contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage loans. The mortgage repurchase liability estimation process requires management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain, including demand expectations, economic factors, and the specific characteristics of the loans subject to repurchase. Our evaluation considers all vintages and the collective actions of the GSEs and their regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), mortgage insurers and our correspondent lenders. We maintain regular contact with the GSEs, the FHFA, and other significant investors to monitor their repurchase demand practices and issues as part of our process to update our repurchase liability estimate as new information becomes available. The liability was   $181 million   at   December 31, 2017  , and $  229 million   at   December 31, 2016  . In   2017  , we released   $39 million  , which increased net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities, compared with a release of   $103 million   in   2016  . The release in   2017   was predominantly due to assumption updates based on recently observed trends.  
  Because of the uncertainty in the various estimates underlying the mortgage repurchase liability, there is a range of losses in excess of the recorded mortgage repurchase liability that are reasonably possible. The estimate of the range of possible loss for representations and warranties does not represent a probable loss, and is based on currently available information, significant judgment, and a number of assumptions that are subject to change. The high end of this range of reasonably possible losses exceeded our recorded liability by   $136 million   at   December 31, 2017  , and was determined based upon modifying the assumptions (particularly to assume significant changes in investor repurchase demand practices) used in our best estimate of probable loss to reflect what we believe to be the high end of reasonably possible adverse assumptions. For additional information on our repurchase liability, see Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
    
  RISKS RELATING TO SERVICING ACTIVITIES      In addition to servicing loans in our portfolio, we act as servicer and/or master servicer of residential mortgage loans included in GSE-guaranteed mortgage securitizations, GNMA-guaranteed mortgage securitizations of FHA-insured/VA-guaranteed mortgages and private label mortgage securitizations, as well as for unsecuritized loans owned by institutional investors. The following discussion summarizes the primary duties and requirements of servicing and related industry developments. 
  The loans we service were originated by us or by other mortgage loan originators. As servicer, our primary duties are typically to (1) collect payments due from borrowers, (2) advance certain delinquent payments of principal and interest on the mortgage loans, (3) maintain and administer any hazard, title or primary mortgage insurance policies relating to the mortgage loans, (4) maintain any required escrow accounts for payment of taxes and insurance and administer escrow payments, (5) foreclose on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the related servicing agreement, consider alternatives to foreclosure, such as loan modifications or short sales, and (6) for loans sold into private label securitizations, manage the foreclosed property through liquidation. As master servicer, our primary duties are typically to (1) supervise, monitor and oversee the servicing of the mortgage loans by the  

servicer, (2) consult with each servicer and use reasonable efforts to cause the servicer to observe its servicing obligations, (3) prepare monthly distribution statements to security holders and, if required by the securitization documents, certain periodic reports required to be filed with the SEC, (4) if required by the securitization documents, calculate distributions and loss allocations on the mortgage-backed securities, (5) prepare tax and information returns of the securitization trust, and (6) advance amounts required by non-affiliated servicers who fail to perform their advancing obligations. 
  Each agreement under which we act as servicer or master servicer generally specifies a standard of responsibility for actions we take in such capacity and provides protection against expenses and liabilities we incur when acting in compliance with the specified standard. For example, private label securitization agreements under which we act as servicer or master servicer typically provide that the servicer and the master servicer are entitled to indemnification by the securitization trust for taking action or refraining from taking action in good faith or for errors in judgment. However, we are not indemnified, but rather are required to indemnify the securitization trustee, against any failure by us, as servicer or master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or against any of our acts or omissions that involve willful misfeasance, bad faith or gross negligence in the performance of, or reckless disregard of, our duties. In addition, if we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security holders. Whole loan sale contracts under which we act as servicer generally include similar provisions with respect to our actions as servicer. The standards governing servicing in GSE-guaranteed securitizations, and the possible remedies for violations of such standards, vary, and those standards and remedies are determined by servicing guides maintained by the GSEs, contracts between the GSEs and individual servicers and topical guides published by the GSEs from time to time. Such remedies could include indemnification or repurchase of an affected mortgage loan. In addition, in connection with our servicing activities, we could become subject to consent orders and settlement agreements with federal and state regulators for alleged servicing issues and practices. In general, these can require us to provide customers with loan modification relief, refinancing relief, and foreclosure prevention and assistance, as well as can impose certain monetary penalties on us. 

Asset/Liability Management 
  Asset/liability management involves evaluating, monitoring and managing interest rate risk, market risk, liquidity and funding. Primary oversight of interest rate risk and market risk resides with the Finance Committee of our Board of Directors (Board), which oversees the administration and effectiveness of financial risk management policies and processes used to assess and manage these risks. Primary oversight of liquidity and funding resides with the Risk Committee of the Board. At the management level we utilize a Corporate Asset/Liability Management Committee (Corporate ALCO), which consists of senior financial, risk, and business executives, to oversee these risks and report on them periodically to the Board s Finance Committee and Risk Committee as appropriate. As discussed in more detail for trading activities below, we employ separate management level oversight specific to market risk.  
    
  INTEREST RATE RISK    Interest rate risk, which potentially can have a significant earnings impact, is an integral part of being a financial intermediary. We are subject to interest rate risk because: 
             
    assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times (for example, if assets reprice faster than liabilities and interest rates are generally rising, earnings will initially increase); 
                
    assets and liabilities may reprice at the same time but by different amounts (for example, when the general level of interest rates is rising, we may increase rates paid on checking and savings deposit accounts by an amount that is less than the general rise in market interest rates); 
                
    short-term and long-term market interest rates may change by different amounts (for example, the shape of the yield curve may affect new loan yields and funding costs differently); 
                
    the remaining maturity of various assets or liabilities may shorten or lengthen as interest rates change (for example, if long-term mortgage interest rates increase sharply, MBS held in the investment securities portfolio may pay down slower than anticipated, which could impact portfolio income); or 
                
    interest rates may also have a direct or indirect effect on loan demand, collateral values, credit losses, mortgage origination volume, the fair value of MSRs and other financial instruments, the value of the pension liability and other items affecting earnings. 
       
  We assess interest rate risk by comparing outcomes under various net interest income simulations using many interest rate scenarios that differ in the direction of interest rate changes, the degree of change over time, the speed of change and the projected shape of the yield curve. These simulations require assumptions regarding drivers of earnings and balance sheet composition such as loan originations, prepayment speeds on loans and investment securities, deposit flows and mix, as well as pricing strategies. 
  Currently, our profile is such that we project net interest income will benefit modestly from higher interest rates as our assets would reprice faster and to a greater degree than our liabilities, while in the case of lower interest rates, our assets would reprice downward and to a greater degree than our liabilities.  
  Our most recent simulations estimate net interest income sensitivity over the next two years under a range of both lower and higher interest rates. Measured impacts from standardized ramps (gradual changes) and shocks (instantaneous changes)  

are summarized in   Table 38  , indicating net interest income sensitivity relative to the Company's base net interest income plan. Ramp scenarios assume interest rates move gradually in parallel across the yield curve relative to the base scenario in year one, and the full amount of the ramp is held as a constant differential to the base scenario in year two. The following describes the simulation assumptions for the scenarios presented in   Table 38  : 
             
    Simulations are dynamic and reflect anticipated growth across assets and liabilities. 
                
    Other macroeconomic variables that could be correlated with the changes in interest rates are held constant. 
                
    Mortgage prepayment and origination assumptions vary across scenarios and reflect only the impact of the higher or lower interest rates. 
                
    Our base scenario deposit forecast incorporates mix changes consistent with the base interest rate trajectory. Deposit mix is modeled to be the same as in the base scenario across the alternative scenarios. In higher rate scenarios, customer activity that shifts balances into higher-yielding products could reduce expected net interest income. 
                
    We hold the size of the projected investment securities portfolio constant across scenarios. 
       
  Table 38:      Net Interest Income Sensitivity Over Next Two-Year Horizon Relative to Base Expectation 

(1) 
    U.S. Constant Maturity Treasury Rate 
     Between 2014 and 2016, we entered into receive fixed interest rate swaps to hedge our LIBOR-based commercial loans, when the expectation was for interest rates to be lower for longer. By doing so, we converted lower-yielding floating rate loans into higher-yielding fixed rate loans. At the peak, we had $86 billion in notional value of loan swaps. Given our desire to be modestly more asset sensitive, we began unwinding these hedges in third quarter 2017, and have currently unwound all these interest rate swaps. Elimination of these swaps will reduce interest income from these loans in 2018, but it has increased our sensitivity to changes in interest rates. Since the swaps were entered into they generated incremental net interest income of approximately $3 billion. The pre-tax loss in other comprehensive income at the time of unwinding the swaps was $1 billion and will be amortized to loan interest income over the remaining life of the original contracts, which is approximately 3  

Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management (  continued  ) 

years. The sensitivity results presented in   Table 38   reflect the full swap portfolio unwinds to best illustrate our profile after the swap repositioning. 
  The sensitivity results above do not capture interest rate sensitive noninterest income and expense impacts. Our interest rate sensitive noninterest income and expense is primarily driven by mortgage activity, and may move in the opposite direction of our net interest income. Typically, in response to higher interest rates, mortgage activity, primarily refinancing activity, generally declines. And in response to lower interest rates, mortgage activity generally increases. Mortgage results are also impacted by the valuation of MSRs and related hedge positions. See the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management   Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  section in this Report for more information. 
  We use the investment securities portfolio and exchange-traded and over-the-counter (OTC) interest rate derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposures. See the  Balance Sheet Analysis   Investment Securities  section in this Report for more information on the use of the available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities portfolios. The notional or contractual amount, credit risk amount and fair value of the derivatives used to hedge our interest rate risk exposures as of   December 31, 2017  , and   December 31, 2016  , are presented in Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report. We use derivatives for asset/liability management in two main ways: 
             
    to convert the cash flows from selected asset and/or liability instruments/portfolios including investments, commercial loans and long-term debt, from fixed-rate payments to floating-rate payments, or vice versa; and 
                
    to economically hedge our mortgage origination pipeline, funded mortgage loans and MSRs using interest rate swaps, swaptions, futures, forwards and options. 
       
  MORTGAGE BANKING INTEREST RATE AND MARKET RISK    We originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which subjects us to various risks, including credit, liquidity and interest rate risks. Based on market conditions and other factors, we reduce credit and liquidity risks by selling or securitizing a majority of the long-term fixed-rate mortgage and ARM loans we originate. On the other hand, we may hold originated ARMs and fixed-rate mortgage loans in our loan portfolio as an investment for our growing base of deposits. We determine whether the loans will be held for investment or held for sale at the time of commitment. We may subsequently change our intent to hold loans for investment and sell some or all of our ARMs or fixed-rate mortgages as part of our corporate asset/liability management. We may also acquire and add to our securities available for sale a portion of the securities issued at the time we securitize MHFS. 
  Interest rate and market risk can be substantial in the mortgage business. Changes in interest rates may potentially reduce total origination and servicing fees, the value of our residential MSRs measured at fair value, the value of MHFS and the associated income and loss reflected in mortgage banking noninterest income, the income and expense associated with instruments (economic hedges) used to hedge changes in the fair value of MSRs and MHFS, and the value of derivative loan commitments (interest rate  locks ) extended to mortgage applicants. 
  Interest rates affect the amount and timing of origination and servicing fees because consumer demand for new mortgages and the level of refinancing activity are sensitive to changes in mortgage interest rates. Typically, a decline in mortgage interest rates will lead to an increase in mortgage originations and fees  

and may also lead to an increase in servicing fee income, depending on the level of new loans added to the servicing portfolio and prepayments. Given the time it takes for consumer behavior to fully react to interest rate changes, as well as the time required for processing a new application, providing the commitment, and securitizing and selling the loan, interest rate changes will affect origination and servicing fees with a lag. The amount and timing of the impact on origination and servicing fees will depend on the magnitude, speed and duration of the change in interest rates. 
  We measure originations of MHFS at fair value where an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist to reliably support fair value pricing models used for these loans. Loan origination fees on these loans are recorded when earned, and related direct loan origination costs are recognized when incurred. We also measure at fair value certain of our other interests held related to residential loan sales and securitizations. We believe fair value measurement for MHFS and other interests held, which we hedge with free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) along with our MSRs measured at fair value, reduces certain timing differences and better matches changes in the value of these assets with changes in the value of derivatives used as economic hedges for these assets. During 2015, 2016, and most of 2017, in response to continued secondary market illiquidity, we continued to originate certain prime non-agency loans to be held for investment for the foreseeable future rather than to be held for sale. 
  We initially measure all of our MSRs at fair value and carry substantially all of them at fair value depending on our strategy for managing interest rate risk. Under this method, the MSRs are recorded at fair value at the time we sell or securitize the related mortgage loans. The carrying value of MSRs carried at fair value reflects changes in fair value at the end of each quarter and changes are included in net servicing income, a component of mortgage banking noninterest income. If the fair value of the MSRs increases, income is recognized; if the fair value of the MSRs decreases, a loss is recognized. We use a dynamic and sophisticated model to estimate the fair value of our MSRs and periodically benchmark our estimates to independent appraisals. The valuation of MSRs can be highly subjective and involve complex judgments by management about matters that are inherently unpredictable. See  Critical Accounting Policies   Valuation of Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights  section in this Report for additional information. Changes in interest rates influence a variety of significant assumptions included in the periodic valuation of MSRs, including prepayment speeds, expected returns and potential risks on the servicing asset portfolio, the value of escrow balances and other servicing valuation elements. 
  An increase in interest rates generally reduces the propensity for refinancing, extends the expected duration of the servicing portfolio and, therefore, increases the estimated fair value of the MSRs. However, an increase in interest rates can also reduce mortgage loan demand and, therefore, reduce origination income. A decline in interest rates generally increases the propensity for refinancing, reduces the expected duration of the servicing portfolio and therefore reduces the estimated fair value of MSRs. This reduction in fair value causes a charge to income for MSRs carried at fair value, net of any gains on free-standing derivatives (economic hedges) used to hedge MSRs. We may choose not to fully hedge the entire potential decline in the value of our MSRs resulting from a decline in interest rates because the potential increase in origination/servicing fees in that scenario provides a partial  natural business hedge.   

The price risk associated with our MSRs is economically hedged with a combination of highly liquid interest rate forward instruments including mortgage forward contracts, interest rate swaps and interest rate options. All of the instruments included in the hedge are marked to market daily. Because the hedging instruments are traded in predominantly highly liquid markets, their prices are readily observable and are fully reflected in each quarter s mark to market. Quarterly MSR hedging results include a combination of directional gain or loss due to market changes as well as any carry income generated. If the economic hedge is effective, its overall directional hedge gain or loss will offset the change in the valuation of the underlying MSR asset. Gains or losses associated with these economic hedges are included in mortgage banking noninterest income. Consistent with our longstanding approach to hedging interest rate risk in the mortgage business, the size of the hedge and the particular combination of forward hedging instruments at any point in time is designed to reduce the volatility of the mortgage business s earnings over various time frames within a range of mortgage interest rates. Because market factors, the composition of the mortgage servicing portfolio and the relationship between the origination and servicing sides of our mortgage business change continually, the types of instruments used in our hedging are reviewed daily and rebalanced based on our evaluation of current market factors and the interest rate risk inherent in our MSRs portfolio. Throughout   2017  , our economic hedging strategy generally used forward mortgage purchase contracts that were effective at offsetting the impact of interest rates on the value of the MSR asset. 
  Mortgage forward contracts are designed to pass the full economics of the underlying reference mortgage securities to the holder of the contract, including both the directional gain and loss from the forward delivery of the reference securities and the corresponding carry income. Carry income represents the contract s price accretion from the forward delivery price to the spot price including both the yield earned on the reference securities and the market implied cost of financing during the period. The actual amount of carry income earned on the hedge each quarter will depend on the amount of the underlying asset that is hedged and the particular instruments included in the hedge. The level of carry income is driven by the slope of the yield curve and other market driven supply and demand factors affecting the specific reference securities. A steep yield curve generally produces higher carry income while a flat or inverted yield curve can result in lower or potentially negative carry income. The level of carry income is also affected by the type of instrument used. In general, mortgage forward contracts tend to produce higher carry income than interest rate swap contracts. Carry income is recognized over the life of the mortgage forward as a component of the contract s mark to market gain or loss. 
  Hedging the various sources of interest rate risk in mortgage banking is a complex process that requires sophisticated modeling and constant monitoring. While we attempt to balance these various aspects of the mortgage business, there are several potential risks to earnings: 
             
    Valuation changes for MSRs associated with interest rate changes are recorded in earnings immediately within the accounting period in which those interest rate changes occur, whereas the impact of those same changes in interest rates on origination and servicing fees occur with a lag and over time. Thus, the mortgage business could be protected from adverse changes in interest rates over a period of time on a cumulative basis but still display large variations in income from one accounting period to the next. 

The degree to which our net gains on loan originations offsets valuation changes for MSRs is imperfect, varies at different points in the interest rate cycle, and depends not just on the direction of interest rates but on the pattern of quarterly interest rate changes. 
                
    Origination volumes, the valuation of MSRs and hedging results and associated costs are also affected by many factors. Such factors include the mix of new business between ARMs and fixed-rate mortgages, the relationship between short-term and long-term interest rates, the degree of volatility in interest rates, the relationship between mortgage interest rates and other interest rate markets, and other interest rate factors. Additional factors that can impact the valuation of the MSRs include changes in servicing and foreclosure costs due to changes in investor or regulatory guidelines, as well as individual state foreclosure legislation, and changes in discount rates due to market participants requiring a higher return due to updated market expectations on costs and risks associated with investing in MSRs. Many of these factors are hard to predict and we may not be able to directly or perfectly hedge their effect. 
                
    While our hedging activities are designed to balance our mortgage banking interest rate risks, the financial instruments we use may not perfectly correlate with the values and income being hedged. For example, the change in the value of ARM production held for sale from changes in mortgage interest rates may or may not be fully offset by LIBOR index-based financial instruments used as economic hedges for such ARMs. Additionally, hedge-carry income on our economic hedges for the MSRs may not continue at recent levels if the spread between short-term and long-term rates decreases, or there are other changes in the market for mortgage forwards that affect the implied carry. 
       
  The total carrying value of our residential and commercial MSRs was   $15.0 billion   and   $14.4 billion   at December 31,   2017   and   2016  , respectively. The weighted-average note rate on our portfolio of loans serviced for others was   4.23%   and   4.26%   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. The carrying value of our total MSRs represented   0.88%   and   0.85%   of mortgage loans serviced for others at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. 
  As part of our mortgage banking activities, we enter into commitments to fund residential mortgage loans at specified times in the future. A mortgage loan commitment is an interest rate lock that binds us to lend funds to a potential borrower at a specified interest rate and within a specified period of time, generally up to 60 days after inception of the rate lock. These loan commitments are derivative loan commitments if the loans that will result from the exercise of the commitments will be held for sale. These derivative loan commitments are recognized at fair value on the balance sheet with changes in their fair values recorded as part of mortgage banking noninterest income. The fair value of these commitments include, at inception and during the life of the loan commitment, the expected net future cash flows related to the associated servicing of the loan as part of the fair value measurement of derivative loan commitments. Changes subsequent to inception are based on changes in fair value of the underlying loan resulting from the exercise of the commitment and changes in the probability that the loan will not fund within the terms of the commitment, referred to as a fall-out factor. The value of the underlying loan commitment is affected by changes in interest rates and the passage of time. 
  Outstanding derivative loan commitments expose us to the risk that the price of the mortgage loans underlying the  

Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management (  continued  ) 

commitments might decline due to increases in mortgage interest rates from inception of the rate lock to the funding of the loan. To minimize this risk, we employ mortgage forwards and options and Eurodollar futures and options contracts as economic hedges against the potential decreases in the values of the loans. We expect that these derivative financial instruments will experience changes in fair value that will either fully or partially offset the changes in fair value of the derivative loan commitments. However, changes in investor demand, such as concerns about credit risk, can also cause changes in the spread relationships between underlying loan value and the derivative financial instruments that cannot be hedged. 
    
  MARKET RISK   TRADING ACTIVITIES    The Finance Committee of our Board of Directors reviews the acceptable market risk appetite for our trading activities. We engage in trading activities to accommodate the investment and risk management activities of our customers (which generally comprises a subset of the transactions recorded as trading and derivative assets and liabilities on our balance sheet), and to execute economic hedging to manage certain balance sheet risks. These activities mostly occur within our Wholesale Banking businesses and to a lesser extent other divisions of the Company. All of our trading assets, and derivative assets and liabilities (including securities, foreign exchange transactions and commodity transactions) are carried at fair value. Income earned related to these trading activities include net interest income and changes in fair value related to trading assets and derivative assets and liabilities. Net interest income earned from trading activity is reflected in the interest income and interest expense components of our income statement. Changes in fair value related to trading assets, and derivative assets and liabilities are reflected in net gains on trading activities, a component of noninterest income in our income statement. 
  Table 39   presents total revenue from trading activities. 
    
  Table 39:      Net Gains (Losses) from Trading Activities 

(1) 
    Represents interest and dividend income earned on trading securities. 
              (2) 
    Represents interest and dividend expense incurred on trading securities we have sold but have not yet purchased. 
              (3) 
    Represents realized gains (losses) from our trading activity and unrealized gains (losses) due to changes in fair value of our trading positions, attributable to the type of business activity. 
              (4) 
    Excludes economic hedging of mortgage banking and asset/liability management activities, for which hedge results (realized and unrealized) are reported with the respective hedged activities. 

Customer accommodation    Customer accommodation activities are conducted to help customers manage their investment and risk management needs. We engage in market-making activities or act as an intermediary to purchase or sell financial instruments in anticipation of or in response to customer needs. This category also includes positions we use to manage our exposure to customer transactions. 
  In our customer accommodation trading, we serve as intermediary between buyer and seller. For example, we may purchase or sell a derivative to a customer who wants to manage interest rate risk exposure. We typically enter into offsetting derivative or security positions with a separate counterparty or exchange to manage our exposure to the derivative with our customer. We earn income on this activity based on the transaction price difference between the customer and offsetting derivative or security positions, which is reflected in the fair value changes of the positions recorded in net gains on trading activities. 
  Customer accommodation trading also includes net gains related to market-making activities in which we take positions to facilitate customer order flow. For example, we may own securities recorded as trading assets (long positions) or sold securities we have not yet purchased, recorded as trading liabilities (short positions), typically on a short-term basis, to facilitate support of buying and selling demand from our customers. As a market maker in these securities, we earn income due to: (1) the difference between the price paid or received for the purchase and sale of the security (bid-ask spread), (2) the net interest income, and (3) the change in fair value of the long or short positions during the short-term period held on our balance sheet. Additionally, we may enter into separate derivative or security positions to manage our exposure related to our long or short security positions. Income earned on this type of market-making activity is reflected in the fair value changes of these positions recorded in net gains on trading activities. 
    
  Economic hedges and other    Economic hedges in trading activities are not designated in a hedge accounting relationship and exclude economic hedging related to our asset/liability risk management and mortgage banking risk management activities. Economic hedging activities include the use of trading securities to economically hedge risk exposures related to non-trading activities or derivatives to hedge risk exposures related to trading assets or trading liabilities. Economic hedges are unrelated to our customer accommodation activities. Other activities include financial assets held for investment purposes that we elected to carry at fair value with changes in fair value recorded to earnings in order to mitigate accounting measurement mismatches or avoid embedded derivative accounting complexities. 
    
  Daily Trading-Related Revenue    Table 40     provides information on the distribution of daily trading-related revenues for the Company s trading portfolio. This trading-related revenue is defined as the change in value of the trading assets and trading liabilities, trading-related net interest income, and trading-related intra-day gains and losses. Net trading-related revenue does not include activity related to long-term positions held for economic hedging purposes, period-end adjustments, and other activity not representative of daily price changes driven by market factors. 

Table 40:      Distribution of Daily Trading-Related Revenues    

Market risk   is the risk of possible economic loss from adverse changes in market risk factors such as interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, equity, commodity prices, mortgage rates, and market liquidity. Market risk is intrinsic to the Company s sales and trading, market making, investing, and risk management activities. 
  The Company uses value-at-risk (VaR) metrics complemented with sensitivity analysis and stress testing in measuring and monitoring market risk. These market risk measures are monitored at both the business unit level and at aggregated levels on a daily basis. Our corporate market risk management function aggregates and monitors all exposures to ensure risk measures are within our established risk appetite. Changes to the market risk profile are analyzed and reported on a daily basis. The Company monitors various market risk exposure measures from a variety of perspectives, including line of business, product, risk type, and legal entity. 
    
  VaR   is a statistical risk measure used to estimate the potential loss from adverse moves in the financial markets. The VaR measures assume that historical changes in market values (historical simulation analysis) are representative of the potential future outcomes and measure the expected loss over a given time interval (for example, 1 day or 10 days) at a given confidence level. Our historical simulation analysis approach uses historical observations of daily changes in each of the market risk factors from each trading day in the previous 12 months. The risk drivers of each market risk exposure are updated on a daily basis. We measure and report VaR for 1-day and 10-day holding periods at a 99% confidence level. This means we would expect to incur single day losses greater than predicted by VaR estimates for the measured positions one time in every 100 trading days. We treat data from all historical periods as equally relevant and consider using data for the previous 12 months as appropriate for determining VaR. We believe using a 12-month look-back period helps ensure the Company s VaR is responsive to current market conditions. 

VaR measurement between different financial institutions is not readily comparable due to modeling and assumption differences from company to company. VaR measures are more useful when interpreted as an indication of trends rather than an absolute measure to be compared across financial institutions. 
  VaR models are subject to limitations which include, but are not limited to, the use of historical changes in market factors that may not accurately reflect future changes in market factors, and the inability to predict market liquidity in extreme market conditions. All limitations such as model inputs, model assumptions, and calculation methodology risk are monitored by the Corporate Market Risk Group and the Corporate Model Risk Group. 
  The VaR models measure exposure to the following categories: 
             
    credit risk   exposures from corporate credit spreads, asset- backed security spreads, and mortgage prepayments. 
                
    interest rate risk   exposures from changes in the level, slope, and curvature of interest rate curves and the volatility of interest rates. 
                
    equity risk   exposures to changes in equity prices and volatilities of single name, index, and basket exposures. 
                
    commodity risk   exposures to changes in commodity prices and volatilities. 
                
    foreign exchange risk   exposures to changes in foreign exchange rates and volatilities. 
       
  VaR is a primary market risk management measure for assets and liabilities classified as trading positions and is used as a supplemental analysis tool to monitor exposures classified as available for sale (AFS) and other exposures that we carry at fair value. 
  Trading VaR is the measure used to provide insight into the market risk exhibited by the Company s trading positions. The  
  Company calculates Trading VaR for risk management purposes to establish line of business and Company-wide risk limits. Trading VaR is calculated based on all trading positions  

Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management (  continued  ) 

classified as trading assets, other liabilities, derivative assets or derivative liabilities on our balance sheet. 

Table 41   shows the Company s Trading General VaR by risk category. The average Company Trading General VaR for 2017 was $  21 million   with a low of   $11 million   and high of   $31 million  .  

Table 41:      Trading 1-Day 99% General VaR by Risk Category 

(1) 
    The period-end VaR was less than the sum of the VaR components described above, which is due to portfolio diversification. The diversification effect arises because the risks are not perfectly correlated causing a portfolio of positions to usually be less risky than the sum of the risks of the positions alone. The diversification benefit is not meaningful for low and high metrics since they may occur on different days. 
       
    Sensitivity Analysis   Given the inherent limitations of the VaR models, the Company uses other measures, including sensitivity analysis, to measure and monitor risk. Sensitivity analysis is the measure of exposure to a single risk factor, such as a 0.01% increase in interest rates or a 1% increase in equity prices. We conduct and monitor sensitivity on interest rates, credit spreads, volatility, equity, commodity, and foreign exchange exposure. Sensitivity analysis complements VaR as it provides an indication of risk relative to each factor irrespective of historical market moves. 
    
  Stress Testing   While VaR captures the risk of loss due to adverse changes in markets using recent historical market data, stress testing is designed to capture the Company s exposure to extreme but low probability market movements. Stress scenarios estimate the risk of losses based on management s assumptions of abnormal but severe market movements such as severe credit spread widening or a large decline in equity prices. These scenarios assume that the market moves happen instantaneously and no repositioning or hedging activity takes place to mitigate losses as events unfold (a conservative approach since experience demonstrates otherwise). 
  An inventory of scenarios is maintained representing both historical and hypothetical stress events that affect a broad range of market risk factors with varying degrees of correlation and differing time horizons. Hypothetical scenarios assess the impact of large movements in financial variables on portfolio values. Typical examples include a 1% (100 basis point) increase across the yield curve or a 10% decline in equity market indexes. Historical scenarios utilize an event-driven approach: the stress scenarios are based on plausible but rare events, and the analysis addresses how these events might affect the risk factors relevant to a portfolio. 
  The Company s stress testing framework is also used in calculating results in support of the Federal Reserve Board s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) and internal stress tests. Stress scenarios are regularly reviewed and updated to address potential market events or concerns. For more detail on the CCAR process, see the  Capital Management  section in this Report. 
    
  Regulatory Market Risk Capital    reflects U.S. regulatory agency risk-based capital regulations that are based on the Basel  

Committee Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. The Company must calculate regulatory capital under the Basel III market risk capital rule, which requires banking organizations with significant trading activities to adjust their capital requirements to reflect the market risks of those activities based on comprehensive and risk sensitive methods and models. The market risk capital rule is intended to cover the risk of loss in value of covered positions due to changes in market conditions. 
    
  Composition of Material Portfolio of Covered Positions    The positions that are  covered  by the market risk capital rule are generally a subset of our trading assets, and derivative assets and liabilities, specifically those held by the Company for the purpose of short-term resale or with the intent of benefiting from actual or expected short-term price movements, or to lock in arbitrage profits. Positions excluded from market risk regulatory capital treatment are subject to the credit risk capital rules applicable to the  non-covered  trading positions. 
  The material portfolio of the Company s  covered  positions is mostly concentrated in the trading assets, and derivative assets and liabilities within Wholesale Banking where the substantial portion of market risk capital resides. Wholesale Banking engages in the fixed income, traded credit, foreign exchange, equities, and commodities markets businesses. Other business segments hold smaller trading positions covered under the market risk capital rule. 
    
  Regulatory Market Risk Capital Components    The capital required for market risk on the Company s  covered  positions is determined by internally developed models or standardized specific risk charges. The market risk regulatory capital models are subject to internal model risk management and validation. The models are continuously monitored and enhanced in response to changes in market conditions, improvements in system capabilities, and changes in the Company s market risk exposure. The Company is required to obtain and has received prior written approval from its regulators before using its internally developed models to calculate the market risk capital charge. 
  Basel III prescribes various VaR measures in the determination of regulatory capital and risk-weighted assets (RWAs). The Company uses the same VaR models for both  

market risk management purposes as well as regulatory capital calculations. For regulatory purposes, we use the following metrics to determine the Company s market risk capital requirements: 
    
  General VaR   measures the risk of broad market movements such as changes in the level of credit spreads, interest rates, equity prices, commodity prices, and foreign exchange rates. General  

VaR uses historical simulation analysis based on 99% confidence level and a 10-day holding period. 
  Table 42   shows the General VaR measure categorized by major risk categories. The average 10-day Company Regulatory General VaR for 2017 was   $29 million   with a low of   $17 million   and high of   $45 million  . 

Table 42:      Regulatory 10-Day 99% General VaR by Risk Category    

(1) 
    The period-end VaR was less than the sum of the VaR components described above, which is due to portfolio diversification. The diversification benefit arises because the risks are not perfectly correlated causing a portfolio of positions to usually be less risky than the sum of the risks of the positions alone. The diversification benefit is not meaningful for low and high metrics since they may occur on different days. 
       Specific Risk   measures the risk of loss that could result from factors other than broad market movements, or name-specific market risk. Specific Risk uses Monte Carlo simulation analysis based on a 99% confidence level and a 10-day holding period. 
    
  Total VaR   (as presented in   Table 43  ) is composed of General VaR and Specific Risk and uses the previous 12 months of historical market data in compliance with regulatory requirements. 
    
  Total Stressed VaR   (as presented in   Table 43  ) uses a historical period of significant financial stress over a continuous 12 month period using historically available market data and is composed of Stressed General VaR and Stressed Specific Risk. Total Stressed VaR uses the same methodology and models as Total VaR. 

Incremental Risk Charge   (as presented in   Table 43  ) captures losses due to both issuer default and migration risk at the 99.9% confidence level over the one-year capital horizon under the assumption of constant level of risk or a constant position assumption. The model covers all non-securitized credit-sensitive trading products. 
  The Company calculates Incremental Risk by generating a portfolio loss distribution using Monte Carlo simulation, which assumes numerous scenarios, where an assumption is made that the portfolio s composition remains constant for a one-year time horizon. Individual issuer credit grade migration and issuer default risk is modeled through generation of the issuer s credit rating transition based upon statistical modeling. Correlation between credit grade migration and default is captured by a multifactor proprietary model which takes into account industry classifications as well as regional effects. Additionally, the impact of market and issuer specific concentrations is reflected in the modeling framework by assignment of a higher charge for portfolios that have increasing concentrations in particular issuers or sectors. Lastly, the model captures product basis risk; that is, it reflects the material disparity between a position and its hedge. 

Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management (  continued  ) 

Table 43   provides information on Total VaR, Total Stressed VaR and the Incremental Risk Charge results for the quarter ended   December 31, 2017  . Incremental Risk Charge uses the higher of the quarterly average or the quarter end result. For the  

fourth quarter, the required capital for market risk equals the quarter end result. 

Table 43:      Market Risk Regulatory Capital Modeled Components 

(1) 
    Results represent the risk-based capital and RWAs based on the VaR and Incremental Risk Charge models. 
       
    Securitized Products Charge    Basel III requires a separate market risk capital charge for positions classified as a securitization or re-securitization. The primary criteria for classification as a securitization are whether there is a transfer of risk and whether the credit risk associated with the underlying exposures has been separated into at least two tranches reflecting different levels of seniority. Covered trading securitizations positions include consumer and commercial asset-backed securities (ABS), commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS), residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS), and collateralized loan and other debt obligations (CLO/CDO) positions. The securitization capital requirements are the greater of the capital requirements of the net long or short exposure, and are capped at the maximum loss that could be incurred on any given transaction.  
  Table 44   shows the aggregate net fair market value of securities and derivative securitization positions by exposure type that meet the regulatory definition of a covered trading securitization position at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  . 
    
  Table 44:      Covered Securitization Positions by Exposure Type (Net Market Value) 

Securitization Due Diligence and Risk Monitoring    The market risk capital rule requires that the Company conduct due diligence on the risk of each securitization position within three days of its purchase. The Company s due diligence seeks to provide an understanding of the features that would materially affect the performance of a securitization or re-securitization. The due diligence analysis is re-performed on a quarterly basis for each securitization and re-securitization position. The Company uses an automated solution to track the due diligence associated with securitization activity. The Company aims to manage the risks associated with securitization and  
  re-securitization positions through the use of offsetting positions and portfolio diversification. 
    
  Standardized Specific Risk Charge      For debt and equity positions that are not evaluated by the approved internal specific risk models, a regulatory prescribed standard specific risk charge is applied. The standard specific risk add-on for sovereign entities, public sector entities, and depository institutions is based on the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) country risk classifications (CRC) and the remaining contractual maturity of the position. These risk add-ons for debt positions range from 0.25% to 12%. The add-on for corporate debt is based on creditworthiness and the remaining contractual maturity of the position. All other types of debt positions are subject to an 8% add-on. The standard specific risk add-on for equity positions is generally 8%. 
    
  Comprehensive Risk Charge/Correlation Trading      The market risk capital rule requires capital for correlation trading positions. The Company s remaining correlation trading exposure covered under the market risk capital rule matured in fourth quarter 2014. 

Table 45   summarizes the market risk-based capital requirements charge and market RWAs in accordance with the Basel III market risk capital rule as of   December 31, 2017   and  

2016  . The market RWAs are calculated as the sum of the components in the table below. 

Table 45:      Market Risk Regulatory Capital and RWAs    

RWA Rollforward        Table 46   depicts the changes in market risk regulatory capital and RWAs under Basel III for the full year and fourth quarter of   2017  . 
    
  Table 46:      Analysis of Changes in Market Risk Regulatory Capital and RWAs    

The largest contributor to the changes to market risk regulatory capital and RWAs for   fourth   quarter   2017   was associated with changes in positions due to normal trading activity.  

VaR Backtesting    The market risk capital rule requires backtesting as one form of validation of the VaR model. Backtesting is a comparison of the daily VaR estimate with the actual clean profit and loss (clean P L) as defined by the market risk capital rule. Clean P L is the change in the value of the Company s covered trading positions that would have occurred had previous end-of-day covered trading positions remained unchanged (therefore, excluding fees, commissions, net interest income, and intraday trading gains and losses). The backtesting analysis compares the daily Total VaR for each of the trading days in the preceding 12 months with the net clean P L. Clean P L does not include credit adjustments and other activity not representative of daily price changes driven by market risk factors. The clean P L measure of revenue is used to evaluate the performance of the Total VaR and is not comparable to our actual daily trading net revenues, as reported elsewhere in this Report. 
  Any observed clean P L loss in excess of the Total VaR is considered a market risk regulatory capital backtesting exception. The actual number of exceptions (that is, the number of business days for which the clean P L losses exceed the corresponding 1-day, 99% Total VaR measure) over the preceding 12 months is used to determine the capital multiplier for the capital calculation. The number of actual backtesting exceptions is dependent on current market performance relative to historic market volatility in addition to model performance and assumptions. This capital multiplier increases from a minimum of three to a maximum of four, depending on the number of exceptions. No backtesting exceptions occurred over the preceding 12 months. Backtesting is also performed at line of business levels within the Company. 
  Table 47   shows daily Total VaR (1-day, 99%) used for regulatory market risk capital backtesting for the 12 months ended   December 31, 2017  . The Company s average Total VaR for   fourth   quarter   2017   was $17 million with a low of $15 million and a high of $20 million.  

Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management (  continued  ) 

Table 47:      Daily Total 1-Day 99% VaR Measure (Rolling 12 Months)     
    Market Risk Governance    The Board s Finance Committee has primary oversight over market risk-taking activities of the Company and reviews the acceptable market risk appetite. Our management-level Market Risk Committee, which reports to the Board s Finance Committee, is responsible for governance and oversight of market risk-taking activities across the Company as well as the establishment of market risk appetite and associated limits. The Corporate Market Risk Group, within Corporate Risk, administers and monitors compliance with the requirements established by the Market Risk Committee. The Corporate Market Risk Group has oversight responsibilities in identifying, measuring and monitoring the Company s market risk. The group is responsible for developing corporate market risk policy, creating quantitative market risk models, establishing independent risk limits, calculating and analyzing market risk capital, and reporting aggregated and line-of-business market risk information. Limits are regularly reviewed to ensure they remain relevant and within the market risk appetite for the Company. An automated limits-monitoring system enables a daily comprehensive review of multiple limits mandated across businesses. Limits are set with inner boundaries that will be periodically breached to promote an ongoing dialogue of risk exposure within the Company. Each line of business that exposes the Company to market risk has direct responsibility for managing market risk in accordance with defined risk tolerances and approved market risk mandates and hedging strategies. We measure and monitor market risk for both management and regulatory capital purposes. 
    
  Model Risk Management    The market risk capital models are governed by our management-level Model Risk Committee policies and procedures, which include model validation. The purpose of model validation includes ensuring models are appropriate for their intended use and that appropriate controls exist to help mitigate the risk of invalid results. Model validation assesses the adequacy and appropriateness of the model,  

including reviewing its key components such as inputs, processing components, logic or theory, output results and supporting model documentation. Validation also includes ensuring significant unobservable model inputs are appropriate given observable market transactions or other market data within the same or similar asset classes. This ensures modeled approaches are appropriate given similar product valuation techniques and are in line with their intended purpose. 
  The Corporate Model Risk Group provides oversight of model validation and assessment processes. Corporate oversight responsibilities include evaluating the adequacy of business unit model risk management programs, maintaining company-wide model validation policies and standards, and reporting the results of these activities to management. In addition to the corporate-level review, all internal valuation models are subject to ongoing review by business-unit-level management. 
    
  MARKET RISK   EQUITY INVESTMENTS    We are directly and indirectly affected by changes in the equity markets. We make and manage direct equity investments in start-up businesses, emerging growth companies, management buy-outs, acquisitions and corporate recapitalizations. We also invest in non-affiliated funds that make similar private equity investments. These private equity investments are made within capital allocations approved by management and the Board. The Board s policy is to review business developments, key risks and historical returns for the private equity investment portfolio at least annually. Management reviews these investments at least quarterly and assesses them for possible OTTI. For nonmarketable investments, the analysis is based on facts and circumstances of each individual investment and the expectations for that investment s cash flows and capital needs, the viability of its business model and our exit strategy. Nonmarketable investments include private equity investments accounted for under the cost method, equity method and fair value option. 

In conjunction with the March 2008 initial public offering (IPO) of Visa, Inc. (Visa), we received approximately 20.7 million shares of Visa Class B common stock, the class which was apportioned to member banks of Visa at the time of the IPO. To manage our exposure to Visa and realize the value of the appreciated Visa shares, we incrementally sold these shares through a series of sales, thereby eliminating this position as of September 30, 2015. As part of these sales, we agreed to compensate the buyer for any additional contributions to a litigation settlement fund for the litigation matters associated with the Class B shares we sold. Our exposure to this retained litigation risk has been updated quarterly and is reflected on our balance sheet. For additional information about the associated litigation matters, see the  Interchange Litigation  section in Note 15 (Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in this Report as supplemented by Note 11 (Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in our 2018 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. 
  As part of our business to support our customers, we trade public equities, listed/OTC equity derivatives and convertible bonds. We have parameters that govern these activities. We also have marketable equity securities in the available-for-sale securities portfolio, including securities relating to our venture capital activities. We manage these investments within capital risk limits approved by management and the Board and monitored by Corporate ALCO and the Market Risk Committee. Gains and losses on these securities are recognized in net income when realized and periodically include OTTI charges. 
  Changes in equity market prices may also indirectly affect our net income by (1) the value of third party assets under management and, hence, fee income, (2) borrowers whose ability to repay principal and/or interest may be affected by the stock market, or (3) brokerage activity, related commission income and other business activities. Each business line monitors and manages these indirect risks. 

Table 48   provides information regarding our marketable and nonmarketable equity investments as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  . 
  Table 48:      Nonmarketable and Marketable Equity Investments 

(1) 
    Represents low income housing tax credit (LIHTC) investments. 
              (2) 
    Represents nonmarketable equity investments for which we have elected the fair value option. See Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets) and Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information.  
              (3) 
    Included in other assets on the balance sheet. See Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information. 
              (4) 
    Included in available-for-sale securities. See Note 5 (Investment Securities) to Financial Statements in this Report for additional information.  

Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management (  continued  ) 

LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING    The objective of effective liquidity management is to ensure that we can meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals and other cash commitments efficiently under both normal operating conditions and under periods of Wells Fargo-specific and/or market stress. To achieve this objective, the Board of Directors establishes liquidity guidelines that require sufficient asset-based liquidity to cover potential funding requirements and to avoid over-dependence on volatile, less reliable funding markets. These guidelines are monitored on a monthly basis by the Corporate ALCO and on a quarterly basis by the Board of Directors. These guidelines are established and monitored for both the consolidated company and for the Parent on a stand-alone basis to ensure that the Parent is a source of strength for its regulated, deposit-taking banking subsidiaries. 
    
  Liquidity Standards    On September 3, 2014, the FRB, OCC and FDIC issued a final rule that implements a quantitative liquidity requirement consistent with the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). The rule requires banking institutions, such as Wells Fargo, to hold high-quality liquid assets (HQLA), such as central bank reserves and government and corporate debt that can be converted easily and quickly into cash, in an amount equal to or greater than its projected net cash outflows during a 30-day stress period. The rule is applicable to the Company on a consolidated basis and to our insured depository institutions with total assets greater than $10 billion. In addition, the FRB finalized rules imposing enhanced liquidity management standards on large bank holding companies (BHC) such as Wells Fargo, and has finalized a rule that requires large bank holding companies to publicly disclose on a quarterly basis certain quantitative and qualitative information regarding their LCR calculations.  
  The FRB, OCC and FDIC have proposed a rule that would implement a stable funding requirement, the net stable funding ratio (NSFR), which would require large banking organizations, such as Wells Fargo, to maintain a sufficient amount of stable funding in relation to their assets, derivative exposures and commitments over a one-year horizon period.  
    
  Liquidity Coverage Ratio    As of   December 31, 2017  , the consolidated Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. were above  

the minimum LCR requirement of 100%, which is calculated as HQLA divided by projected net cash outflows, as each is defined under the LCR rule.   Table 49   presents the Company s quarterly average values for the daily-calculated LCR and its components calculated pursuant to the LCR rule requirements.  
    
  Table 49:        Liquidity Coverage Ratio    

(1) Excludes excess HQLA at Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 
  (2) Net of applicable haircuts required under the LCR rule. 
    
  Liquidity Sources    We maintain liquidity in the form of cash, cash equivalents and unencumbered high-quality, liquid securities. These assets make up our primary sources of liquidity which are presented in   Table 50  . Our primary sources of liquidity are substantially the same in composition as HQLA under the LCR rule; however, our primary sources of liquidity will generally exceed HQLA calculated under the LCR rule due to the applicable haircuts to HQLA and the exclusion of excess HQLA at our subsidiary insured depository institutions required under the LCR rule.  
  Our cash is predominantly on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Securities included as part of our primary sources of liquidity are comprised of U.S. Treasury and federal agency debt, and mortgage-backed securities issued by federal agencies within our investment securities portfolio. We believe these securities provide quick sources of liquidity through sales or by pledging to obtain financing, regardless of market conditions. Some of these securities are within the held-to-maturity portion of our investment securities portfolio and as such are not intended for sale but may be pledged to obtain financing. Some of the legal entities within our consolidated group of companies are subject to various regulatory, tax, legal and other restrictions that can limit the transferability of their funds. We believe we maintain adequate liquidity for these entities in consideration of such funds transfer restrictions. 

Table 50:      Primary Sources of Liquidity   

In addition to our primary sources of liquidity shown in   Table 50  , liquidity is also available through the sale or financing of other securities including trading and/or available-for-sale securities, as well as through the sale, securitization or financing of loans, to the extent such securities and loans are not encumbered. In addition, other securities in our held-to-maturity portfolio, to the extent not encumbered, may be pledged to obtain financing. 

Deposits have historically provided a sizeable source of relatively low-cost funds. At   December 31, 2017  , deposits were   140%   of total loans compared with   135%   at   December 31, 2016  .  
  Additional funding is provided by long-term debt and short-term borrowings. We access domestic and international capital markets for long-term funding (generally greater than one year) through issuances of registered debt securities, private placements and asset-backed secured funding.  

Table 51   shows selected information for short-term borrowings, which generally mature in less than 30 days. 

Table 51:      Short-Term Borrowings 

(1) 
    Highest month-end balance in each of the last five quarters was in   November  , August, June and February 2017, and October 2016. 
              (2) 
    There were no month-end balances in fourth quarter 2017; highest month-end balance in each of the previous four quarters was in July, June and January 2017, and November 2016. 
              (3) 
    Highest month-end balance in each of the last five quarters was in   November  , July, April and February 2017, and December 2016. 
       
    Parent    In February 2017, the Parent filed a registration statement with the SEC for the issuance of senior and subordinated notes, preferred stock and other securities.     The Parent s ability to issue debt and other securities under this registration statement is limited by the debt issuance authority granted by the Board. As of   December 31, 2017  , the Parent was authorized by the Board to issue   $50 billion   in outstanding short-term debt and   $180 billion   in outstanding long-term debt. The Parent's short-term debt issuance authority granted by the Board was limited to debt issued to affiliates, and was revoked by the Board at management's request in January 2018. The Parent's long-term debt issuance authority granted by the Board includes debt issued to affiliates and others. At   December 31, 2017  , the Parent had available   $50.0 billion   in short-term debt issuance authority and   $18.6 billion   in long-term debt issuance authority. In   2017  , the Parent issued   $22.3 billion   of senior notes, of which   $16.4 billion   were registered with the SEC. 
  The Parent s proceeds from securities issued were used for general corporate purposes, and, unless otherwise specified in the applicable prospectus or prospectus supplement, we expect the proceeds from securities issued in the future will be used for the same purposes. Depending on market conditions, we may purchase our outstanding debt securities from time to time in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer, or otherwise. 
    
  Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.    As of December 31, 2017, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. was authorized by its board of directors to issue   $100 billion   in outstanding short-term debt and   $175 billion   in outstanding long-term debt and had available   $97.8 billion   in short-term debt issuance authority and   $113.0 billion   in long-term debt issuance authority. In April 2015, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. established a   $100 billion   bank note program under which, subject to any other debt outstanding under the limits described above, it may issue   $50 billion   in outstanding short-term senior notes and   $50 billion   in outstanding long-term senior or subordinated  

notes. At   December 31, 2017  , Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. had remaining issuance capacity under the bank note program of   $50.0 billion   in short-term senior notes and   $38.0 billion   in long-term senior or subordinated notes. In   2017  , Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. issued   $1.2 billion   of unregistered senior notes, none of which were issued under the bank note program. In January 2018, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. issued $6.0 billion of unregistered senior notes under the bank note program. In addition, during   2017  , Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. executed advances of   $21.9 billion   with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines, and as of   December 31, 2017  , Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. had outstanding advances of   $45.9 billion   across the Federal Home Loan Bank System. In January 2018, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. executed $10.5 billion of Federal Home Loan Bank advances. 
    
  Credit Ratings    Investors in the long-term capital markets, as well as other market participants, generally will consider, among other factors, a company s debt rating in making investment decisions. Rating agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, the level and quality of earnings, and rating agency assumptions regarding the probability and extent of federal financial assistance or support for certain large financial institutions. Adverse changes in these factors could result in a reduction of our credit rating; however, our debt securities do not contain credit rating covenants. 
  On October 3, 2017, Fitch Ratings, Inc. downgraded certain of the Company s ratings by one notch and revised the ratings outlook from negative to stable. On February 6, 2018, Moody s affirmed the Company s ratings and revised the ratings outlook from stable to negative. On February 7, 2018, S P Global Ratings downgraded the Company s ratings by one notch and revised the ratings outlook from negative to stable. Both the Parent and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. remain among the top-rated financial firms in the U.S. 
  See the  Risk Factors  section in this Report for additional information regarding our credit ratings and the potential impact a credit rating downgrade would have on our liquidity  

Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management (  continued  ) 

and operations, as well as Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report for information regarding additional collateral and funding obligations required for certain derivative instruments in the event our credit ratings were to fall below investment grade. 

The current credit ratings of the Parent and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. are presented in   Table 52  . 

Table 52:      Credit Ratings 

Wells Fargo   Company  
      
    Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.  
        
    Senior debt  
      
    Short-term  
  borrowings  
      
    Long-term  
  deposits  
      
    Short-term  
  borrowings  
      Moody's 
    A2 
      
    P-1 
      
    Aa1 
      
    P-1 
      S P 
    A- 
      
    A-2 
      
    A+ 
      
    A-1 
      Fitch Ratings, Inc. 
    A+ 
      
    F1 
      
    AA 
      
    F1+ 
      DBRS 
    AA (low) 
      
    R-1 (middle) 
      
    AA 
      
    R-1 (high) 

FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK MEMBERSHIP    The Federal Home Loan Banks (the FHLBs) are a group of cooperatives that lending institutions use to finance housing and economic development in local communities. We are a member of the FHLBs based in Dallas, Des Moines and San Francisco. Each member of the FHLBs is required to maintain a minimum investment in capital stock of the applicable FHLB. The board of directors of each FHLB can increase the minimum investment  

requirements in the event it has concluded that additional capital is required to allow it to meet its own regulatory capital requirements. Any increase in the minimum investment requirements outside of specified ranges requires the approval of the Federal Housing Finance Board. Because the extent of any obligation to increase our investment in any of the FHLBs depends entirely upon the occurrence of a future event, potential future payments to the FHLBs are not determinable. 

Capital Management 

We have an active program for managing capital through a comprehensive process for assessing the Company s overall capital adequacy. Our objective is to maintain capital at an amount commensurate with our risk profile and risk tolerance objectives, and to meet both regulatory and market expectations. We primarily fund our capital needs through the retention of earnings net of both dividends and share repurchases, as well as through the issuance of preferred stock and long and short-term debt. Retained earnings   increased     $12.2 billion   from December 31, 2016,   predominantly   from Wells Fargo net income of   $22.2 billion  , less common and preferred stock dividends of   $9.3 billion  . During   2017  , we issued   72.0 million   shares of common stock. In April 2017, we issued 27.6 million Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series Y, for an aggregate public offering price of $690 million. During   2017  , we repurchased   196.5 million   shares of common stock in open market transactions, private transactions and from employee benefit plans, at a cost of   $10.7 billion  . We entered into a $1 billion forward repurchase contract with an unrelated third party in January 2018 that settled in February 2018 for 15.7 million shares. We also entered into a $600 million forward repurchase contract with an unrelated third party in February 2018 that is expected to settle in second quarter 2018 for approximately 11 million shares. For additional information about our forward repurchase agreements, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
    
  Regulatory Capital Guidelines 
  The Company and each of our insured depository institutions are subject to various regulatory capital adequacy requirements administered by the FRB and the OCC. Risk-based capital (RBC) guidelines establish a risk-adjusted ratio relating capital to different categories of assets and off-balance sheet exposures as discussed below.  

RISK-BASED CAPITAL AND RISK-WEIGHTED ASSETS    The     Company is subject to final and interim final rules issued by federal banking regulators to implement Basel III capital requirements for U.S. banking organizations. These rules are based on international guidelines for determining regulatory capital issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). The federal banking regulators  capital rules, among other things, require on a fully phased-in basis: 
             
    a minimum Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio of 9.0%, comprised of a 4.5% minimum requirement plus a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% and for us, as a global systemically important bank (G-SIB), a capital surcharge to be calculated annually, which is 2.0% based on our year-end 2016 data; 
                
    a minimum tier 1 capital ratio of 10.5%, comprised of a 6.0% minimum requirement plus the capital conservation buffer of 2.5% and the G-SIB capital surcharge of 2.0%; 
                
    a minimum total capital ratio of 12.5%, comprised of a 8.0% minimum requirement plus the capital conservation buffer of 2.5% and the G-SIB capital surcharge of 2.0%; 
                
    a potential countercyclical buffer of up to 2.5% to be added to the minimum capital ratios, which is currently not in effect but could be imposed by regulators at their discretion if it is determined that a period of excessive credit growth is contributing to an increase in systemic risk; 
                
    a minimum tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0%; and  
                
    a minimum supplementary leverage ratio (SLR) of 5.0% (comprised of a 3.0% minimum requirement plus a supplementary leverage buffer of 2.0%) for large and internationally active bank holding companies (BHCs). 
       
  We were required to comply with the final Basel III capital rules beginning January 2014, with certain provisions subject to phase-in periods. The Basel III capital rules are scheduled to be fully phased in by the end of 2021. The  

Basel III capital rules contain two frameworks for calculating capital requirements, a Standardized Approach, which replaced Basel I, and an Advanced Approach applicable to certain institutions, including Wells Fargo. Accordingly, in the assessment of our capital adequacy, we must report the lower of our CET1, tier 1 and total capital ratios calculated under the Standardized Approach and under the Advanced Approach.  
  Because the Company has been designated as a G-SIB, we will also be subject to the FRB s rule implementing the additional capital surcharge of between 1.0-4.5% on G-SIBs. Under the rule, we must annually calculate our surcharge under two methods and use the higher of the two surcharges. The first method (method one) will consider our size, interconnectedness, cross-jurisdictional activity, substitutability, and complexity, consistent with a methodology developed by the BCBS and the Financial Stability Board (FSB). The second (method two) will use similar inputs, but will replace substitutability with use of short-term wholesale funding and will generally result in higher surcharges than the BCBS methodology. The phase-in period for the G-SIB surcharge began on January 1, 2016 and will become fully effective on January 1, 2019. Based on year-end 2016 data, our 2018 G-SIB surcharge under method two is 2.0% of the  

Company s RWAs, which is the higher of method one and method two. Because the G-SIB surcharge is calculated annually based on data that can differ over time, the amount of the surcharge is subject to change in future years. Under the   Standardized   Approach (fully phased-in), our CET1 ratio of   11.98%   exceeded the minimum of 9.0% by   298   basis points at   December 31, 2017  . 
  The tables that follow provide information about our risk- based capital and related ratios as calculated under Basel III capital guidelines. For banking industry regulatory reporting purposes, we report our capital in accordance with Transition Requirements but are managing our capital based on a fully phased-in calculation. For information about our capital requirements calculated in accordance with Transition Requirements, see Note 27 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
  Table 53   summarizes our CET1, tier 1 capital, total capital, risk-weighted assets and capital ratios on a fully phased-in basis at   December 31, 2017   and   December 31, 2016  . As of   December 31, 2017  , our CET1, tier 1, and total capital ratios were lower using RWAs calculated under the   Standardized   Approach. 

Table 53:      Capital Components and Ratios (Fully Phased-In) (1)    

*Denotes the lowest capital ratio as determined under the Advanced and Standardized Approaches. 
           (1) 
    Fully phased-in regulatory capital amounts, ratios and RWAs are considered non-GAAP financial measures that are used by management, bank regulatory agencies, investors and analysts to assess and monitor the Company s capital position. See   Table 54   for information regarding the calculation and components of CET1, tier 1 capital, total capital and RWAs, as well as the corresponding reconciliation of our regulatory capital amounts to GAAP financial measures. 

Capital Management   (continued) 

Table 54   provides information regarding the calculation and composition of our risk-based capital under the Advanced and Standardized Approaches at   December 31, 2017   and December 31, 2016. 

Table 54:      Risk-Based Capital Calculation and Components    

(1) 
    Represents goodwill and other intangibles on nonmarketable equity investments and on held-for-sale assets, which are included in other assets. 
              (2) 
    Applicable deferred taxes relate to goodwill and other intangible assets. They were determined by applying the combined federal statutory rate and composite state income tax rates to the difference between book and tax basis of the respective goodwill and intangible assets at period end. 
              (3) 
    Under the Advanced Approach the allowance for credit losses that exceeds expected credit losses is eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital, to the extent the excess allowance does not exceed 0.6% of Advanced credit RWAs, and under the Standardized Approach, the allowance for credit losses is includable in Tier 2 Capital up to 1.25% of Standardized credit RWAs, with any excess allowance for credit losses being deducted from total RWAs. 
              (4) 
    RWAs calculated under the Advanced Approach utilize a risk-sensitive methodology, which relies upon the use of internal credit models based upon our experience with internal rating grades. Advanced Approach also includes an operational risk component, which reflects the risk of operating loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems.  
              (5) 
    Under the regulatory guidelines for risk-based capital, on-balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of derivatives and off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of several broad risk categories according to the obligor, or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of any collateral. The aggregate dollar amount in each risk category is then multiplied by the risk weight associated with that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the risk categories are aggregated for determining total RWAs. 

Table 55   presents the changes in Common Equity Tier 1 under the Advanced Approach for the   year ended December 31, 2017  . 

Table 55:      Analysis of Changes in Common Equity Tier 1    

(1) 
    Represents goodwill and other intangibles on nonmarketable equity investments and on held-for-sale assets, which are included in other assets. 
              (2) 
    Applicable deferred taxes relate to goodwill and other intangible assets. They were determined by applying the combined federal statutory rate and composite state income tax rates to the difference between book and tax basis of the respective goodwill and intangible assets at period end. 
       
    Table 56   presents net changes in the components of RWAs under the Advanced and Standardized Approaches for the   year ended December 31, 2017  . 

Table 56:      Analysis of Changes in RWAs    

Capital Management   (continued) 

TANGIBLE COMMON EQUITY    We also evaluate our business based on certain ratios that utilize tangible common equity. Tangible common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure and represents total equity less preferred equity, noncontrolling interests, and goodwill and certain identifiable intangible assets (including goodwill and intangible assets associated with certain of our nonmarketable equity investments but excluding mortgage servicing rights), net of applicable deferred taxes. These tangible common equity ratios are as follows: 
             
    Tangible book value per common share, which represents tangible common equity divided by common shares outstanding. 

Return on average tangible common equity (ROTCE), which represents our annualized earnings contribution as a percentage of tangible common equity. 
       
  The methodology of determining tangible common equity may differ among companies. Management believes that tangible book value per common share and return on average tangible common equity, which utilize tangible common equity, are useful financial measures because they enable investors and others to assess the Company's use of equity. 
  Table 57   provides a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures. 

Table 57:      Tangible Common Equity    

(1) 
    Represents goodwill and other intangibles on nonmarketable equity investments and on held-for-sale assets, which are included in other assets. 
              (2) 
    Applicable deferred taxes relate to goodwill and other intangible assets. They were determined by applying the combined federal statutory rate and composite state income tax rates to the difference between book and tax basis of the respective goodwill and intangible assets at period end. 

SUPPLEMENTARY LEVERAGE RATIO    In April 2014, federal banking regulators finalized a rule that enhances the SLR requirements for BHCs, like Wells Fargo, and their insured depository institutions. The SLR consists of Tier 1 capital divided by the Company s total leverage exposure. Total leverage exposure consists of the total average on-balance sheet assets, plus off-balance sheet exposures, such as undrawn commitments and derivative exposures, less amounts permitted to be deducted from Tier 1 capital. The rule, which became effective on January 1, 2018, requires a covered BHC to maintain a SLR of at least 5.0% (comprised of the 3.0% minimum requirement plus a supplementary leverage buffer of 2.0%) to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. The rule also requires that all of our insured depository institutions maintain a SLR of 6.0% under applicable regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. In September 2014, federal banking regulators finalized additional changes to the SLR requirements to implement revisions to the Basel III leverage framework finalized by the BCBS in January 2014. These additional changes, among other things, modify the methodology for including off- balance sheet items, including credit derivatives, repo-style transactions and lines of credit, in the denominator of the SLR. At   December 31, 2017  , our SLR for the Company was   8.0%   assuming full phase-in of the Advanced Approach capital framework. Based on our review, our current leverage levels would exceed the applicable requirements for each of our insured depository institutions as well. The fully phased-in SLR is considered a non-GAAP financial measure that is used by management, bank regulatory agencies, investors and analysts to assess and monitor the Company s leverage exposure. See   Table 58   for information regarding the calculation and components of the SLR. 
  Table 58:      Fully Phased-In SLR 

(1) 
    Amounts permitted to be deducted from Tier 1 capital primarily include goodwill and other intangible assets, net of associated deferred tax liabilities.  
              (2) 
    Represents adjustments for off balance sheet derivative exposures, and derivative collateral netting as defined for supplementary leverage ratio determination purposes. 
              (3) 
    Adjustments for repo-style transactions represent counterparty credit risk for all repo-style transactions where Wells Fargo   Company is the principal (i.e., principal counterparty facing the client). 
              (4) 
    Adjustments for other off-balance sheet exposures represent the notional amounts of all off-balance sheet exposures (excluding off balance sheet exposures associated with derivative and repo-style transactions) less the adjustments for conversion to credit equivalent amounts under the regulatory capital rule. 
     OTHER REGULATORY CAPITAL MATTERS   In December 2016, the FRB finalized rules to address the amount of equity and unsecured long-term debt a U.S. G-SIB must hold to improve its resolvability and resiliency, often referred to as Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (TLAC). Under the rules, which become effective on January 1, 2019, U.S. G-SIBs will be required to have  

a minimum TLAC amount (consisting of CET1 capital and additional tier 1 capital issued directly by the top-tier or covered BHC plus eligible external long-term debt) equal to the greater of (i) 18% of RWAs and (ii) 7.5% of total leverage exposure (the denominator of the SLR calculation). Additionally, U.S. G-SIBs will be required to maintain (i) a TLAC buffer equal to 2.5% of RWAs plus the firm s applicable G-SIB capital surcharge calculated under method one plus any applicable countercyclical buffer that will be added to the 18% minimum and (ii) an external TLAC leverage buffer equal to 2.0% of total leverage exposure that will be added to the 7.5% minimum, in order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. The rules will also require U.S. G-SIBs to have a minimum amount of eligible unsecured long-term debt equal to the greater of (i) 6.0% of RWAs plus the firm s applicable G-SIB capital surcharge calculated under method two and (ii) 4.5% of the total leverage exposure. In addition, the rules will impose certain restrictions on the operations and liabilities of the top-tier or covered BHC in order to further facilitate an orderly resolution, including prohibitions on the issuance of short-term debt to external investors and on entering into derivatives and certain other types of financial contracts with external counterparties. While the rules permit permanent grandfathering of a significant portion of otherwise ineligible long-term debt that was issued prior to December 31, 2016, long-term debt issued after that date must be fully compliant with the eligibility requirements of the rules in order to count toward the minimum TLAC amount. As a result of the rules, we will need to issue additional long-term debt to remain compliant with the requirements. As of   December 31, 2017  , we estimate that our eligible external TLAC as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets was 24.1% compared with an expected January 1, 2019 required minimum of 22.0%. 
  In addition, as discussed in the  Risk Management   Asset/ Liability Management   Liquidity and Funding   Liquidity Standards  section in this Report, federal banking regulators have issued a final rule regarding the U.S. implementation of the Basel III LCR and a proposed rule regarding the NSFR. 
    
  Capital Planning and Stress Testing 
  Our planned long-term capital structure is designed to meet regulatory and market expectations. We believe that our long-term targeted capital structure enables us to invest in and grow our business, satisfy our customers  financial needs in varying environments, access markets, and maintain flexibility to return capital to our shareholders. Our long-term targeted capital structure also considers capital levels sufficient to exceed capital requirements including the G-SIB surcharge. Accordingly, based on the final Basel III capital rules under the lower of the Standardized or Advanced Approaches CET1 capital ratios, we currently target a long-term CET1 capital ratio at or in excess of 10%, which includes a 2% G-SIB surcharge. Our capital targets are subject to change based on various factors, including changes to the regulatory capital framework and expectations for large banks promulgated by bank regulatory agencies, planned capital actions, changes in our risk profile and other factors. 
  Under the FRB s capital plan rule, large BHCs are required to submit capital plans annually for review to determine if the FRB has any objections before making any capital distributions. The rule requires updates to capital plans in the event of material changes in a BHC s risk profile, including as a result of any significant acquisitions. The FRB assesses the overall financial condition, risk profile, and capital adequacy of BHCs while considering both quantitative and qualitative factors when evaluating capital plans.  

Capital Management   (continued) 

Our 2017 capital plan, which was submitted on April 4, 2017, as part of CCAR, included a comprehensive capital outlook supported by an assessment of expected sources and uses of capital over a given planning horizon under a range of expected and stress scenarios. As part of the 2017 CCAR, the FRB also generated a supervisory stress test, which assumed a sharp decline in the economy and significant decline in asset pricing using the information provided by the Company to estimate performance. The FRB reviewed the supervisory stress results both as required under the Dodd-Frank Act using a common set of capital actions for all large BHCs and by taking into account the Company s proposed capital actions. The FRB published its supervisory stress test results as required under the Dodd-Frank Act on June 22, 2017. On June 28, 2017, the FRB notified us that it did not object to our capital plan included in the 2017 CCAR. 
  Federal banking regulators require stress tests to evaluate whether an institution has sufficient capital to continue to operate during periods of adverse economic and financial conditions. These stress testing requirements set forth the timing and type of stress test activities large BHCs and banks must undertake as well as rules governing stress testing controls, oversight and disclosure requirements. The rules also limit a large BHC s ability to make capital distributions to the extent its actual capital issuances were less than amounts indicated in its capital plan. As required under the FRB s stress testing rule, we must submit a mid-cycle stress test based on second quarter data and scenarios developed by the Company. We submitted the results of the mid-cycle stress test to the FRB and disclosed a summary of the results in October 2017. 
    
  Securities Repurchases 
  From time to time the Board authorizes the Company to repurchase shares of our common stock. Although we announce when the Board authorizes share repurchases, we typically do not give any public notice before we repurchase our shares. Future stock repurchases may be private or open-market repurchases, including block transactions, accelerated or delayed block transactions, forward transactions, and similar transactions. Additionally, we may enter into plans to purchase stock that satisfy the conditions of Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Various factors determine the amount and timing of our share repurchases, including our capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for employee benefit plans and acquisitions, market conditions (including the trading price of our stock), and regulatory and legal considerations, including the FRB s response to our capital plan and to changes in our risk profile. 

In January 2016, the Board authorized the repurchase of 350 million shares of our common stock. At   December 31, 2017  , we had remaining authority to repurchase approximately   71 million   shares, subject to regulatory and legal conditions. In January 2018, the Board authorized the repurchase of an additional 350 million shares of our common stock. For more information about share repurchases during   fourth quarter 2017  , see Part II, Item 5 in our 2017 Form 10-K. 
  Historically, our policy has been to repurchase shares under the  safe harbor  conditions of Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 including a limitation on the daily volume of repurchases. Rule 10b-18 imposes an additional daily volume limitation on share repurchases during a pending merger or acquisition in which shares of our stock will constitute some or all of the consideration. Our management may determine that during a pending stock merger or acquisition when the safe harbor would otherwise be available, it is in our best interest to repurchase shares in excess of this additional daily volume limitation. In such cases, we intend to repurchase shares in compliance with the other conditions of the safe harbor, including the standing daily volume limitation that applies whether or not there is a pending stock merger or acquisition. 
  In connection with our participation in the Capital Purchase Program (CPP), a part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), we issued to the U.S. Treasury Department warrants to purchase 110,261,688 shares of our common stock with an original exercise price of $34.01 per share expiring on October 28, 2018. The terms of the warrants require the exercise price to be adjusted under certain circumstances when the Company s quarterly common stock dividend exceeds $0.34 per share, which began occurring in second quarter 2014. Accordingly, with each quarterly common stock dividend above $0.34 per share, we must calculate whether an adjustment to the exercise price is required by the terms of the warrants, including whether certain minimum thresholds have been met to trigger an adjustment, and notify the holders of any such change. The Board authorized the repurchase by the Company of up to $1 billion of the warrants. At   December 31, 2017  , there were   23,327,854   warrants outstanding, exercisable at   $33.701   per share, and   $452 million   of unused warrant repurchase authority. Depending on market conditions, we may purchase from time to time additional warrants in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise. 

Regulatory Matters 

Since the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010, the U.S. financial services industry has been subject to a significant increase in regulation and regulatory oversight initiatives. This increased regulation and oversight has substantially changed how most U.S. financial services companies conduct business and has increased their regulatory compliance costs. The following highlights the more significant regulations and regulatory oversight initiatives that have affected or may affect our business. For additional information about the regulatory matters discussed below and other regulations and regulatory oversight matters, see Part I, Item 1  Regulation and Supervision  of our   2017   Form 10-K, and the  Capital Management,   Forward-Looking Statements  and  Risk  

Factors  sections and Note 27 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report.  
    
  Dodd-Frank Act 
  The Dodd-Frank Act is the most significant financial reform legislation since the 1930s and is driving much of the current U.S. regulatory reform efforts. The Dodd-Frank Act and many of its provisions became effective in July 2010 and July 2011. The following provides additional information on the Dodd-Frank Act, including the current status of certain of its rulemaking initiatives. 
             
    Enhanced supervision and regulation of systemically important firms  .  The Dodd-Frank Act grants broad  

authority to federal banking regulators to establish enhanced supervisory and regulatory requirements for systemically important firms. The FRB has finalized a number of regulations implementing enhanced prudential requirements for large bank holding companies (BHCs) like Wells Fargo regarding risk-based capital and leverage, risk and liquidity management, and imposing debt-to-equity limits on any BHC that regulators determine poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States. The FRB and OCC have also finalized rules implementing stress testing requirements for large BHCs and national banks. The FRB has also re-proposed, but not yet finalized, additional enhanced prudential standards that would implement single counterparty credit limits and establish remediation requirements for large BHCs experiencing financial distress. Similarly, the FRB has proposed additional requirements regarding effective risk management practices at large BHCs, including its expectations for boards of directors and senior management. In addition to the authorization of enhanced supervisory and regulatory requirements for systemically important firms, the Dodd-Frank Act also established the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the Office of Financial Research, which may recommend new systemic risk management requirements and require new reporting of systemic risks. The OCC, under separate authority, has also finalized guidelines establishing heightened governance and risk management standards for large national banks such as Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. The OCC guidelines require covered banks to establish and adhere to a written risk governance framework in order to manage and control their risk-taking activities. The guidelines also formalize roles and responsibilities for risk management practices within covered banks and create certain risk oversight responsibilities for their boards of directors.  
             
    Regulation of consumer financial products.    The Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to ensure consumers receive clear and accurate disclosures regarding financial products and to protect them from hidden fees and unfair or abusive practices. With respect to residential mortgage lending, the CFPB issued a number of final rules implementing new origination, notification, disclosure and other requirements, as well as additional limitations on the fees and charges that may be increased from the estimates provided by lenders. The CFPB finalized amendments to the rule implementing the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, resulting in a significant expansion of the data points lenders are required to collect beginning January 1, 2018 and report to the CFPB beginning January 1, 2019. The CFPB also expanded the transactions covered by the rule and increased the reporting frequency from annual to quarterly for large volume lenders, such as Wells Fargo, beginning January 1, 2020. With respect to other financial products, the CFPB finalized rules, most of which become effective on April 1, 2019, to make prepaid cards subject to similar consumer protections as those provided by more traditional debit and credit cards such as fraud protection and expanded access to account information. 
     In addition to these rulemaking activities, the CFPB is continuing its on-going supervisory examination activities of the financial services industry with respect to a number of consumer businesses and products, including mortgage lending and servicing, fair lending requirements, student lending activities, and automobile finance. At this time, the  

Company cannot predict the full impact of the CFPB s rulemaking and supervisory authority on our business practices or financial results. 
             
    Volcker Rule.    The Volcker Rule, with limited exceptions, prohibits banking entities from engaging in proprietary trading or owning any interest in or sponsoring or having certain relationships with a hedge fund, a private equity fund or certain structured transactions that are deemed covered funds. Federal banking regulators, the SEC and CFTC (collectively, the Volcker supervisory regulators) jointly released a final rule to implement the Volcker Rule s restrictions. As a banking entity with more than $50 billion in consolidated assets, we are also subject to enhanced compliance program requirements.  
                
    Regulation of swaps and other derivatives activities  .  The Dodd-Frank Act established a comprehensive framework for regulating over-the-counter derivatives and authorized the CFTC and the SEC to regulate swaps and security-based swaps, respectively. The CFTC has adopted rules applicable to our provisionally registered swap dealer, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., that require, among other things, extensive regulatory and public reporting of swaps, central clearing and trading of swaps on exchanges or other multilateral platforms, and compliance with comprehensive internal and external business conduct standards. The SEC is expected to implement parallel rules applicable to security-based swaps. In addition, federal regulators have adopted final rules establishing margin requirements for swaps and security-based swaps not centrally cleared. All of these new rules, as well as others being considered by regulators in other jurisdictions, may negatively impact customer demand for over-the-counter derivatives and may increase our costs for engaging in swaps and other derivatives activities.  
                
    Changes to asset-backed securities (ABS) markets.    The Dodd-Frank Act requires sponsors of certain ABS to hold at least a 5% ownership stake in the ABS. Federal regulatory agencies have issued final rules to implement this credit risk retention requirement, which included an exemption for, among other things, GSE mortgage backed securities. The final rules may impact our ability to issue certain asset-backed securities or otherwise participate in various securitization transactions. 
                
    Regulation of interchange transaction fees (the Durbin Amendment).    On October 1, 2011, the FRB rule enacted to implement the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act that limits debit card interchange transaction fees to those reasonable and proportional to the cost of the transaction became effective. The rule generally established that the maximum allowable interchange fee that an issuer may receive or charge for an electronic debit transaction is the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction. On July 31, 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia ruled that the approach used by the FRB in setting the maximum allowable interchange transaction fee impermissibly included costs that were specifically excluded from consideration under the Durbin Amendment. In August 2013, the FRB filed a notice of appeal of the decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. In March 2014, the Court of Appeals reversed the District Court s decision, but did direct the FRB to provide further explanation regarding its treatment of the costs of monitoring transactions. The plaintiffs did not file a petition for rehearing with the Court of Appeals but filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court. In  

Regulatory Matters   (continued) 

January 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court denied the petition for writ of certiorari.  
    
  Regulatory Capital Guidelines and Capital Plans  
  During 2013, federal banking regulators issued final rules that substantially amended the risk-based capital rules for banking organizations. The rules implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms in the U.S., comply with changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act, and replace the existing Basel I-based capital requirements. We were required to begin complying with the rules on January 1, 2014, subject to phase-in periods that are scheduled to be fully phased in by January 1, 2022. In 2014, federal banking regulators also finalized rules to impose a supplementary leverage ratio on large BHCs like Wells Fargo and our insured depository institutions and to implement the Basel III liquidity coverage ratio. For more information on the final capital, leverage and liquidity rules, and additional capital requirements applicable to us, see the  Capital Management  section in this Report. 
    
   Living Will  Requirements and Related Matters 
  Rules adopted by the FRB and the FDIC under the Dodd-Frank Act require large financial institutions, including Wells Fargo, to prepare and periodically revise resolution plans, so-called  living-wills , that would facilitate their resolution in the event of material distress or failure. Under the rules, resolution plans are required to provide strategies for resolution under the Bankruptcy Code and other applicable insolvency regimes that can be accomplished in a reasonable period of time and in a manner that mitigates the risk that failure would have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the United States. On December 19, 2017, the FRB and FDIC announced that our most recent resolution plan submission did not have any deficiencies; however, they identified a specific shortcoming that would need to be addressed in our next submission. If the FRB or FDIC determines that our resolution plan has deficiencies, they may impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements on us or restrict our growth, activities or operations until we adequately remedy the deficiencies. If the FRB or FDIC ultimately determines that we have been unable to remedy any deficiencies, they could require us to divest certain assets or operations.  
  We must also prepare and submit to the FRB a recovery plan that identifies a range of options that we may consider during times of idiosyncratic or systemic economic stress to remedy any financial weaknesses and restore market confidence without extraordinary government support. Recovery options include the possible sale, transfer or disposal of assets, securities, loan portfolios or businesses. Our insured national bank subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (the  Bank ), must also prepare and submit to the OCC a recovery plan that sets forth the bank s plan to remain a going concern when the bank is experiencing considerable financial or operational stress, but has not yet deteriorated to the point where liquidation or resolution is imminent. If either the FRB or the OCC determine that our recovery plan is deficient, they may impose fines, restrictions on our business or ultimately require us to divest assets. 
  If Wells Fargo were to fail, it may be resolved in a bankruptcy proceeding or, if certain conditions are met, under the resolution regime created by the Dodd-Frank Act known as the  orderly liquidation authority.  The orderly liquidation authority allows for the appointment of the FDIC as receiver for a systemically important financial institution that is in default or in danger of default if, among other things, the resolution of the institution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would have serious  

adverse effects on financial stability in the United States. If the FDIC is appointed as receiver for Wells Fargo   Company (the  Parent ), then the orderly liquidation authority, rather than the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, would determine the powers of the receiver and the rights and obligations of our security holders. The FDIC s orderly liquidation authority requires that security holders of a company in receivership bear all losses before U.S. taxpayers are exposed to any losses, and allows the FDIC to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in certain circumstances.  
  Whether under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or by the FDIC under the orderly liquidation authority, Wells Fargo could be resolved using a  multiple point of entry  strategy, in which the Parent and one or more of its subsidiaries would each undergo separate resolution proceedings, or a  single point of entry  strategy, in which the Parent would likely be the only material legal entity to enter resolution proceedings. The FDIC has announced that a single point of entry strategy may be a desirable strategy under its implementation of the orderly liquidation authority, but not all aspects of how the FDIC might exercise this authority are known and additional rulemaking is possible. 
  The strategy described in our most recent resolution plan submission is a multiple point of entry strategy; however, we have made a decision to move to a single point of entry strategy for our next resolution plan submission. We are not obligated to maintain either a single point of entry or multiple point of entry strategy, and the strategies reflected in our resolution plan submissions are not binding in the event of an actual resolution     of Wells Fargo, whether conducted under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or by the FDIC under the orderly liquidation authority. 
  To facilitate the orderly resolution of systemically important financial institutions in case of material distress or failure, federal banking regulations require that institutions, such as Wells Fargo, maintain a minimum amount of equity and unsecured debt to absorb losses and recapitalize operating subsidiaries. Federal banking regulators have also required measures to facilitate the continued operation of operating subsidiaries notwithstanding the failure of their parent companies, such as limitations on parent guarantees, and have issued guidance encouraging institutions to take legally binding measures to provide capital and liquidity resources to certain subsidiaries in order to facilitate an orderly resolution. In response to the regulators  guidance and to facilitate the orderly resolution of the Company using either a single point of entry or multiple point of entry resolution strategy, on June 28, 2017, the Parent entered into a support agreement (the  Support Agreement ) with WFC Holdings, LLC, an intermediate holding company and subsidiary of the Parent (the  IHC ), and the Bank, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC ( WFS ), and Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC ( WFCS ), each an indirect subsidiary of the Parent. Pursuant to the Support Agreement, the Parent transferred a significant amount of its assets, including the majority of its cash, deposits, liquid securities and intercompany loans (but excluding its equity interests in its subsidiaries and certain other assets), to the IHC and will continue to transfer those types of assets to the IHC from time to time. In the event of our material financial distress or failure, the IHC will be obligated to use the transferred assets to provide capital and/or liquidity to the Bank pursuant to the Support Agreement and to WFS and WFCS through repurchase facilities entered into in connection with the Support Agreement. Under the Support Agreement, the IHC will also provide funding and liquidity to the Parent through subordinated notes and a committed line of  

credit, which, together with the issuance of dividends, is expected to provide the Parent, during business as usual operating conditions, with the same access to cash necessary to service its debts, pay dividends, repurchase its shares, and perform its other obligations as it would have had if it had not entered into these arrangements and transferred any assets. If certain liquidity and/or capital metrics fall below defined triggers, the subordinated notes would be forgiven and the committed line of credit would terminate, which could materially and adversely impact the Parent s liquidity and its ability to satisfy its debts and other obligations, and could result in the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings by the Parent at an earlier time than might have otherwise occurred if the Support Agreement were not implemented. The Parent's and the IHC's respective obligations under the Support Agreement are secured pursuant to a related security agreement. 
    
  Other Regulatory Related Matters 
             
    Department of Labor ERISA fiduciary standard  .  In April 2016, the U.S. Department of Labor adopted a rule under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) that, among other changes and subject to certain exceptions, as of the applicability date of June 9, 2017, makes anyone, including broker-dealers, providing investment advice to retirement investors a fiduciary who must act in the best interest of clients when providing investment advice for direct or indirect compensation to a retirement plan, to a plan fiduciary, participant or beneficiary, or to an investment retirement account (IRA) or IRA holder. The rule impacts the manner in which business is conducted with retirement investors and affects product offerings with respect to retirement plans and IRAs. 
                
    OCC revocation of relief  .  On November 18, 2016, the OCC revoked provisions of certain consent orders that provided Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. relief from specific requirements and limitations regarding rules, policies, and procedures for corporate activities; OCC approval of changes in directors and senior executive officers; and golden parachute payments. As a result, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is no longer eligible for expedited treatment for certain applications; is now required to provide prior written notice to the OCC of a change in directors and senior executive officers; and is now subject to certain regulatory limitations on golden parachute payments. 

Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) rating  .  In March 2017, we announced that the OCC had downgraded our most recent CRA rating, which covers the years 2009   2012, to  Needs to Improve  due to previously issued regulatory consent orders. A  Needs to Improve  rating imposes regulatory restrictions and limitations on certain of the Company s nonbank activities, including its ability to engage in certain nonbank mergers and acquisitions or undertake new financial in nature activities, and CRA performance is taken into account by regulators in reviewing applications to establish bank branches and for approving proposed bank mergers and acquisitions. The rating also results in the loss of expedited processing of applications to undertake certain activities, and requires the Company to receive prior regulatory approval for certain activities, including to issue or prepay certain subordinated debt obligations, open or relocate bank branches, or make certain public welfare investments. In addition, a  Needs to Improve  rating could have an impact on the Company s relationships with certain states, counties, municipalities or other public agencies to the extent applicable law, regulation or policy limits, restricts or influences whether such entity may do business with a company that has a below  Satisfactory  rating. 
                
    FRB consent order regarding governance oversight and compliance and operational risk management.    On February 2, 2018, the Company entered into a consent order with the FRB, which requires the Company to submit to the FRB within 60 days of the date of the consent order plans to further enhance the Board's governance oversight and the Company s compliance and operational risk management. The consent order also requires third-party reviews related to the adoption and implementation of such plans by September 30, 2018. Until these third-party reviews are complete and the plans are approved and implemented to the satisfaction of the FRB, the Company s total consolidated assets will be limited to the level as of December 31, 2017. Compliance with this asset cap will be measured on a two-quarter daily average basis to allow for management of temporary fluctuations. Once the asset cap limitation is removed, a second third-party review must be conducted to assess the efficacy and sustainability of the improvements.  

Critical Accounting Policies   (continued) 

Critical Accounting Policies  

Our significant accounting policies (see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report) are fundamental to understanding our results of operations and financial condition because they require that we use estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Five of these policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. These policies govern: 
             
    the allowance for credit losses; 
                
    the valuation of residential MSRs; 
                
    the fair value of financial instruments;  
                
    income taxes; and 
                
    liability for contingent litigation losses. 
       
  Liability for contingent litigation losses was added as a new critical accounting policy in second quarter 2017, and the accounting policy for PCI loans was removed in fourth quarter 2017 due to no longer being deemed critical.  
  Management and the Board s Audit and Examination committee have reviewed and approved these critical accounting policies. 
    
  Allowance for Credit Losses 
  We maintain an allowance for credit losses, which consists of the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for unfunded credit commitments, which is management s estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments, at the balance sheet date, excluding loans carried at fair value. For a description of our related accounting policies, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to Financial Statements in this Report.  
  Changes in the allowance for credit losses and, therefore, in the related provision for credit losses can materially affect net income. In applying the judgment and review required to determine the allowance for credit losses, management considers changes in economic conditions, customer behavior, and collateral value, among other influences. From time to time, economic factors or business decisions, such as the addition or liquidation of a loan product or business unit, may affect the loan portfolio, causing management to provide for or release amounts from the allowance for credit losses. While our methodology attributes portions of the allowance to specific portfolio segments (commercial and consumer), the entire allowance for credit losses is available to absorb credit losses inherent in the total loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments.  
  Judgment is specifically applied in: 
             
    Credit risk ratings applied to individual commercial loans and unfunded credit commitments.    We estimate the probability of default in accordance with the borrower s financial strength using a borrower quality rating and the severity of loss in the event of default using a collateral quality rating. Collectively, these ratings are referred to as credit risk ratings and are assigned to our commercial loans. Probability of default and severity at the time of default are statistically derived through historical observations of defaults and losses after default within each credit risk rating. Commercial loan risk ratings are evaluated based on each situation by experienced senior credit officers and are  

subject to periodic review by an internal team of credit specialists. 
             
    Economic assumptions applied to pools of consumer loans (statistically modeled).    Losses are estimated using economic variables to represent our best estimate of inherent loss. Our forecasted losses are modeled using a range of economic scenarios.  
                
    Selection of a credit loss estimation model that fits the credit risk characteristics of its portfolio  .  We use both internally developed and vendor supplied models in this process. We often use expected loss, roll rate, net flow, vintage maturation, behavior score, and time series or statistical trend models, most with economic correlations. Management must use judgment in establishing additional input metrics for the modeling processes, considering further stratification into reference data time series, sub-product, origination channel, vintage, loss type, geographic location and other predictive characteristics. The models used to determine the allowance for credit losses are validated in accordance with Company policies by an internal model validation group.  
                
    Assessment of limitations to credit loss estimation models.    We apply our judgment to adjust our modeled estimates to reflect other risks that may be identified from current conditions and developments in selected portfolios. 
                
    Identification and measurement of impaired loans, including loans modified in a TDR.    Our experienced senior credit officers may consider a loan impaired based on their evaluation of current information and events, including loans modified in a TDR. The measurement of impairment is typically based on an analysis of the present value of expected future cash flows. The development of these expectations requires significant management judgment and review.  
                
    An amount for imprecision or uncertainty which reflects management s overall estimate of the effect of quantitative and qualitative factors on inherent credit losses.    This amount represents management s judgment of risks inherent in the processes and assumptions used in establishing the allowance for credit losses. This imprecision considers economic environmental factors, modeling assumptions and performance, process risk, and other subjective factors, including industry trends and emerging risk assessments. 

SENSITIVITY TO CHANGES    Table 59   demonstrates the impact of the sensitivity of our estimates on our allowance for credit losses. 
    
  Table 59:      Allowance Sensitivity Summary    

(1) 
    Represents a one risk rating upgrade throughout our commercial portfolio segment and a more optimistic economic outlook for modeled losses on our consumer portfolio segment. 
              (2) 
    Represents a one risk rating downgrade throughout our commercial portfolio segment, a more pessimistic economic outlook for modeled losses on our consumer portfolio segment, and incremental deterioration for PCI loans. 
       
  The sensitivity analyses provided in the previous table are hypothetical scenarios and are not considered probable. They do not represent management s view of inherent losses in the portfolio as of the balance sheet date. Because significant judgment is used, it is possible that others performing similar analyses could reach different conclusions. See the  Risk Management       Credit Risk Management       Allowance for Credit Losses  section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report for further discussion of our allowance for credit losses.  
    
  Valuation of Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights (MSRs) 
  MSRs are assets that represent the rights to service mortgage loans for others. We recognize MSRs when we purchase servicing rights from third parties, or retain servicing rights in connection with the sale or securitization of loans we originate (asset transfers). We also have MSRs acquired in the past under co-issuer agreements that provide for us to service loans that were originated and securitized by third-party correspondents. 
  We carry our MSRs related to residential mortgage loans at fair value. Periodic changes in our residential MSRs and the economic hedges used to hedge our residential MSRs are reflected in earnings  . 
  We use a model to estimate the fair value of our residential MSRs. The model is validated by an internal model validation group operating in accordance with Company policies  .   The model calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income and incorporates inputs and assumptions that market participants use in estimating fair value. Certain significant inputs and assumptions are not observable in the market and require judgment to determine:  
             
    The mortgage loan prepayment speed used to estimate future net servicing income.    The prepayment speed is the annual rate at which borrowers are forecasted to repay their mortgage loan principal; this rate also includes estimated borrower defaults. We use models to estimate prepayment speeds and borrower defaults which are influenced by changes in mortgage interest rates and borrower behavior. 
                
    The discount rate used to present value estimated future net servicing income.    The discount rate is the required rate of return investors in the market would expect for an asset with similar risk. To determine the discount rate, we consider the risk premium for uncertainties from servicing operations (e.g., possible changes in future servicing costs, ancillary income and earnings on escrow accounts). 

The expected cost to service loans used to estimate future net servicing income.    The cost to service loans includes estimates for unreimbursed expenses, such as delinquency and foreclosure costs, which considers the number of defaulted loans as well as changes in servicing processes associated with default and foreclosure management. 
       
  Both prepayment speed and discount rate assumptions can, and generally will, change quarterly as market conditions and mortgage interest rates change. For example, an increase in either the prepayment speed or discount rate assumption results in a decrease in the fair value of the MSRs, while a decrease in either assumption would result in an increase in the fair value of the MSRs. In recent years, there have been significant market-driven fluctuations in loan prepayment speeds and the discount rate. These fluctuations can be rapid and may be significant in the future. Additionally, while our current valuation reflects our best estimate of servicing costs, future regulatory or investor changes in servicing standards, as well as changes in individual state foreclosure legislation, may have an impact on our servicing cost assumption and our MSR valuation in future periods. 
  For a description of our valuation and sensitivity of MSRs, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies), Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities), Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) and Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
    
  Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
  Fair value represents the price that would be received to sell the financial asset or paid to transfer the financial liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. 
  We use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain financial instruments and to determine fair value disclosures. For example, trading assets, securities available for sale, derivatives and substantially all of our residential MHFS are carried at fair value each period. Other financial instruments, such as certain MHFS and substantially all of our loans held for investment, are not carried at fair value each period but may require nonrecurring fair value adjustments due to application of lower-of-cost-or-market accounting or write-downs of individual assets. We also disclose our estimate of fair value for financial instruments not recorded at fair value, such as loans held for investment or issuances of long-term debt. 
  The accounting provisions for fair value measurements include a three-level hierarchy for disclosure of assets and liabilities recorded at fair value. The classification of assets and liabilities within the hierarchy is based on whether the inputs to the valuation methodology used for measurement are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market-derived or market-based information obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our estimates about market data. For additional information on fair value levels, see Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
  When developing fair value measurements, we maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. When available, we use quoted prices in active markets to measure fair value. If quoted prices in active markets are not available, fair value measurement is based upon models that use primarily market-based or independently sourced market parameters, including interest rate yield curves, prepayment speeds, option volatilities and currency rates.  

Critical Accounting Policies   (continued) 

However, in certain cases, when market observable inputs for model-based valuation techniques are not readily available, we are required to make judgments about assumptions market participants would use to estimate fair value. Additionally, we use third party pricing services to obtain fair values, which are used to either record the price of an instrument or to corroborate internally developed prices. For additional information on our use of pricing services, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) and Note 17 (Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
  The degree of management judgment involved in determining the fair value of a financial instrument is dependent upon the availability of quoted prices in active markets or observable market parameters. For financial instruments with quoted market prices or observable market parameters in active markets, there is minimal subjectivity involved in measuring fair value. When quoted prices and observable data in active markets are not fully available, management judgment is necessary to estimate fair value. Changes in the market conditions, such as reduced liquidity in the capital markets or changes in secondary market activities, may reduce the availability and reliability of quoted prices or observable data used to determine fair value. When significant adjustments are required to price quotes or inputs, it may be appropriate to utilize an estimate based primarily on unobservable inputs. When an active market for a financial instrument does not exist, the use of management estimates that incorporate current market participant expectations of future cash flows, adjusted for an appropriate risk premium, is acceptable. 
  Significant judgment is also required to determine whether certain assets measured at fair value are classified as Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy as described in Note 17 (Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report. When making this judgment, we consider available information, including observable market data, indications of market liquidity and orderliness, and our understanding of the valuation techniques and significant inputs used. For securities in inactive markets, we use a predetermined percentage to evaluate the impact of fair value adjustments derived from weighting both external and internal indications of value to determine if the instrument is classified as Level 2 or Level 3. Otherwise, the classification of Level 2 or Level 3 is based upon the specific facts and circumstances of each instrument or instrument category and judgments are made regarding the significance of the Level 3 inputs to the instruments  fair value measurement in its entirety. If Level 3 inputs are considered significant, the instrument is classified as Level 3. 
  Table 60   presents the summary of the fair value of financial instruments recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, and the amounts measured using significant Level 3 inputs (before derivative netting adjustments). The fair value of the remaining assets and liabilities were measured using valuation methodologies involving market-based or market-derived information (collectively Level 1 and 2 measurements). 

Table 60:      Fair Value Level 3 Summary 

*    Less than 1%. 
           (1) 
    Before derivative netting adjustments. 
       
  See Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) to Financial Statements in this Report for a complete discussion on our fair value of financial instruments, our related measurement techniques and the impact to our financial statements. 
    
  Income Taxes 
  We file consolidated and separate company U.S. federal income tax returns, foreign tax returns and various combined and separate company state tax returns. We evaluate two components of income tax expense: current and deferred income tax expense. Current income tax expense represents our estimated taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period and includes income tax expense related to our uncertain tax positions. Deferred income tax expense results from changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities between periods. We determine deferred income taxes using the balance sheet method. Under this method, the net deferred tax asset or liability is based on the tax effects of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and recognizes enacted changes in tax rates and laws in the period in which they occur. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to management s judgment that realization is  more likely than not.  Uncertain tax positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold are measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that management believes has a greater than 50% likelihood of realization upon settlement. Tax benefits not meeting our realization criteria represent unrecognized tax benefits. We account for interest and penalties as a component of income tax expense. For prior reporting periods, we did not record U.S. tax on undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries to the extent the earnings were indefinitely reinvested outside of the U.S. Foreign taxes paid are generally applied as credits to reduce U.S. income taxes payable. However, in 2017, we recorded an estimate of the U.S. tax expense associated with a deemed repatriation of the Company's previously undistributed foreign earnings as required under the Tax Act. 

The income tax laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant government taxing authorities. In establishing a provision for income tax expense, we must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws. We must also make estimates about when in the future certain items will affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions, both domestic and foreign. Our interpretations may be subjected to review during examination by taxing authorities and disputes may arise over the respective tax positions. We attempt to resolve these disputes during the tax examination and audit process and ultimately through the court systems when applicable. 
  We monitor relevant tax authorities and revise our estimate of accrued income taxes due to changes in income tax laws and their interpretation by the courts and regulatory authorities on a quarterly basis. Revisions of our estimate of accrued income taxes also may result from our own income tax planning and from the resolution of income tax controversies. Such revisions in our estimates may be material to our operating results for any given quarter. 
  See Note 22 (Income Taxes) to Financial Statements in this Report for a further description of our provision for income taxes and related income tax assets and liabilities. 
    
  Liability for Contingent Litigation Losses 
  The Company is involved in a number of judicial, regulatory, arbitration and other proceedings concerning matters arising from the conduct of its business activities, and many of those proceedings expose the Company to potential financial loss. We establish accruals for these legal actions when potential losses associated with the actions become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. For such accruals, we record the amount we consider to be the best estimate within a range of potential losses that are both probable and estimable; however, if we cannot determine a best estimate, then we record the low end of the range of those potential losses. The actual costs of resolving legal actions may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts accrued for those actions. 

We apply judgment when establishing an accrual for potential losses associated with legal actions and in establishing the range of reasonably possible losses in excess of the accrual. Our judgment in establishing accruals and the range of reasonably possible losses in excess of the Company's accrual for probable and estimable losses is influenced by our understanding of information currently available related to the legal evaluation and potential outcome of actions, including input and advice on these matters from our internal counsel, external counsel and senior management. These matters may be in various stages of investigation, discovery or proceedings. They may also involve a wide variety of claims across our businesses, legal entities and jurisdictions. The eventual outcome may be a scenario that was not considered or was considered remote in anticipated occurrence. Accordingly, our estimate of potential losses will change over time and the actual losses may vary significantly.  
  The outcomes of legal actions are unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, and it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible. It is also inherently difficult to estimate the amount of any loss and there may be matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible but not currently estimable. Accordingly, actual losses may be in excess of the established accrual or the range of reasonably possible loss.  
  See Note 15 (Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in this Report for further information. 

Current Accounting Developments   (continued) 

Current Accounting Developments 

Table 61   lists the significant accounting updates applicable to us that have been issued by the FASB but are not yet effective.  

Table 61:      Current Accounting Developments   Issued Standards 
                       Standard 
      
    Description 
      
    Effective date and financial statement impact 
      Accounting Standards Update (ASU or Update) 2018-02   Income Statement-Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220):   Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 
      
    Currently, the effect of remeasuring deferred tax assets and liabilities due to a change in tax laws or rates must be recognized in income from continuing operations in the reporting period that includes the enactment date. That guidance is applicable even in situations in which the related income tax effects were originally recognized in other comprehensive income. The Update permits a one-time reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for these stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. 
      
    The guidance is effective on January 1, 2019. Early application is permitted in any interim period prior to the effective date. Application of the new guidance will result in an increase in retained earnings of approximately $400 million. 

ASU 2017-08   Receivables   Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs (Subtopic 310-20):   Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt Securities 
      
    The Update changes the accounting for certain purchased callable debt securities held at a premium to shorten the amortization period for the premium to the earliest call date rather than to the maturity date. Accounting for purchased callable debt securities held at a discount does not change. The discount would continue to amortize to the maturity date. 
      
    We expect to adopt the guidance in first quarter 2019 using the modified retrospective method with a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the year of adoption. Our investment securities portfolio includes holdings of available-for-sale (AFS) and held-to-maturity (HTM) callable debt securities held at a premium. At adoption, the guidance is expected to result in a cumulative effect adjustment which will be primarily offset with a corresponding adjustment to other comprehensive income related to AFS securities. After adoption, the guidance will reduce interest income prior to the call date because the premium will be amortized over a shorter time period. Our implementation effort includes identifying the population of debt securities subject to the new guidance, which are primarily obligations of U.S. states and political subdivisions, and quantifying the expected impacts. The impact of the Update on our consolidated financial statements will be affected by our portfolio composition at the time of adoption, which may change between December 31, 2017, and the adoption date. 
      ASU 2016-18   Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230):   Restricted Cash 
      
    The Update requires that restricted cash and cash equivalents are included with the total cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows. In addition, the nature of any restrictions will be disclosed in the footnotes to the financial statements. 
      
    We adopted the guidance in first quarter 2018 with retrospective application. We will change the presentation of our cash and cash equivalents on our consolidated statement of cash flows to include both cash and due from banks as well as interest-earning deposits with banks, which are inclusive of any restricted cash. We will make a corresponding change to our consolidated balance sheets. 
      ASU 2016-13   Financial Instruments   Credit Losses (Topic 326):   Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments 
      
    The Update changes the accounting for credit losses on loans and debt securities. For loans and held-to-maturity debt securities, the Update requires a current expected credit loss (CECL) approach to determine the allowance for credit losses. CECL requires loss estimates for the remaining estimated life of the financial asset using historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. Also, the Update eliminates the existing guidance for PCI loans, but requires an allowance for purchased financial assets with more than insignificant deterioration since origination. In addition, the Update modifies the other-than-temporary impairment model for available-for-sale debt securities to require an allowance for credit impairment instead of a direct write-down, which allows for reversal of credit impairments in future periods based on improvements in credit. 
      
    The guidance is effective in first quarter 2020 with a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the year of adoption. While early adoption is permitted beginning in first quarter 2019, we do not expect to elect that option. We are evaluating the impact of the Update on our consolidated financial statements. We expect the Update will result in an increase in the allowance for credit losses given the change to estimated losses over the contractual life adjusted for expected prepayments with an anticipated material impact from longer duration portfolios, as well as the addition of an allowance for debt securities. The amount of the increase will be impacted by the portfolio composition and credit quality at the adoption date as well as economic conditions and forecasts at that time. 

Standard 
      
    Description 
      
    Effective date and financial statement impact 
      ASU 2016-04   Liabilities   Extinguishments of Liabilities (Subtopic 405-20):   Recognition of Breakage for Certain Prepaid Stored-Value Products 
      
    The Update modifies the accounting for certain prepaid card products to require the recognition of breakage. Breakage represents the estimated amount that will not be redeemed by the cardholder for goods or services. 
      
    We adopted the Update in first quarter 2018 with a cumulative-effect adjustment to opening retained earnings. The new guidance resulted in a reduction in the balance of the liability, with an increase to retained earnings given estimated breakage at the date of adoption of approximately $26 million. 
      ASU 2016-02   Leases (Topic 842) 
      
    The Update requires lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet with lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets based on the present value of lease payments. Lessor accounting activities are largely unchanged from existing lease accounting. The Update also eliminates leveraged lease accounting but allows existing leveraged leases to continue their current accounting until maturity, termination or modification. 
      
    We expect to adopt the guidance in first quarter 2019 using the modified retrospective method and practical expedients for transition. The practical expedients allow us to largely account for our existing leases consistent with current guidance except for the incremental balance sheet recognition for lessees. We have started our implementation of the Update which has included an initial evaluation of our leasing contracts and activities. As a lessee we are developing our methodology to estimate the right-of use assets and lease liabilities, which is based on the present value of lease payments (the December 31, 2017, future minimum lease payments were $6.6 billion, as disclosed in Table 7.2 of Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets) in this Report). We do not expect a material change to the timing of expense recognition. Given the limited changes to lessor accounting, we do not expect material changes to recognition or measurement, but we continue to evaluate the guidance and application to our activities. We are evaluating our existing disclosures and will provide additional information as a result of adoption of the Update. 
      ASU 2016-01   Financial Instruments   Overall (Subtopic 825-10):   Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 
      
    The Update amends the presentation and accounting for certain financial instruments, including liabilities measured at fair value under the fair value option and equity investments. The guidance also updates fair value presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments measured at amortized cost.  
      
    We adopted the Update in first quarter 2018 and recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment as of January 1, 2018 that increased retained earnings $106 million and decreased other comprehensive income $118 million. 
  Our investments in marketable equity securities classified as available-for-sale as of the adoption date will be accounted for at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reflected in earnings. Additionally, our share of the unrealized gains or losses of marketable equity securities held by investees in our nonmarketable equity investments accounted for using the equity method will be reflected in earnings as of the adoption date. Previously, such unrealized gains or losses were reflected in other comprehensive income. Upon adoption, we recorded a transition adjustment to reclassify $118 million in net unrealized gains from other comprehensive income to retained earnings. 
  The accounting for our investments in nonmarketable equity instruments accounted for under the cost method of accounting at the adoption date, except for Federal bank stock, will be measured either, at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings, or the measurement alternative. The measurement alternative is similar to the cost method of accounting, except the carrying value is adjusted through earnings for subsequent observable transactions in the same or similar investment. We will account for substantially all of our private equity cost method investments using the measurement alternative and our auction rate securities portfolio will be accounted for at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. Upon adoption, we recorded a transition adjustment of $12 million to decrease retained earnings from our auction rates securities portfolio at fair value. No transition adjustment is recorded for those investments changing to the measurement alternative, which is applied prospectively. 
  In connection with our adoption of this Update, we will present all holdings of marketable equity securities accounted for as available-for-sale and as trading assets as well as nonmarketable equity investments in a new line on the balance sheet labeled  Equity investments.  We will also eliminate the  Trading assets  line on the balance sheet and present trading securities and trading loans in other line items consistent with their form. Additionally, for purposes of disclosing the fair value of loans carried at amortized cost, we will determine the fair value based on  exit price  as required by the Update. Accordingly, the fair value amounts disclosed for such loans will change upon adoption of the Update. 

Current Accounting Developments   (continued) 

Standard 
      
    Description 
      
    Effective date and financial statement impact 
      ASU 2014-09   Revenue from Contracts With Customers (Topic 606) and subsequent related Updates 
      
    The Update modifies the guidance used to recognize revenue from contracts with customers for transfers of goods or services and transfers of nonfinancial assets, unless those contracts are within the scope of other guidance. The Update also requires new qualitative and quantitative disclosures, including disaggregation of revenues and descriptions of performance obligations. 
      
    We adopted the Update in first quarter 2018, and recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment to opening retained earnings to reflect application of the new guidance effective January 1, 2018. This adjustment, which decreased retained earnings by $44 million, is due to changes in the timing of revenue for corporate trust services that are provided over the life of the associated trust. 
     Our accounting policies did not change materially since the principles of revenue recognition from the Update are largely consistent with the prior guidance and practices applied by our businesses. Accordingly, we do not have material changes to the timing or amount of revenue recognition. However, the presentation of some costs associated with the contracts of our broker-dealer and card businesses will change beginning in first quarter 2018. These presentation changes will reduce our revenue with a corresponding offset to reduce expenses. Based on results for 2017, we do not expect the impact of this prospective presentation change to be material to our total revenue and expenses. 
     In Note 20 (Revenue from Contracts with Customers) to Financial Statements in this Report, we describe our key sources of revenue that are within the scope of the new guidance, and include qualitative disclosures to describe how revenue is recognized for the types of services performed. In first quarter 2018, we will provide additional disaggregation of specific categories of revenue, including service charges on deposit accounts, brokerage advisory, trust and investment management, and card fees. 

In addition to the list above, the following Updates are applicable to us but are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements: 
             
    ASU 2017-11   Earnings Per Share (Topic 260); Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (Topic 480); Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815):   (Part I) Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Down Round Features, (Part II) Replacement of the Indefinite Deferral for Mandatorily Redeemable Financial Instruments of Certain Nonpublic Entities and Certain Mandatorily Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests with a Scope Exception 
                 
    ASU 2017-07   Compensation   Retirement Benefits (Topic 715):   Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost 

Forward-Looking Statements    

This document contains  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, we may make forward-looking statements in our other documents filed or furnished with the SEC, and our management may make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, representatives of the media and others. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as  anticipates,   intends,   plans,   seeks,   believes,   estimates,   expects,   target,   projects,   outlook,   forecast,   will,   may,   could,   should,   can  and similar references to future periods. In particular, forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make about: (i) the future operating or financial performance of the Company, including our outlook for future growth; (ii) our noninterest expense and efficiency ratio; (iii) future credit quality and performance, including our expectations regarding future loan losses and allowance levels; (iv) the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses; (v) our expectations regarding net interest income and net interest margin; (vi) loan growth or the reduction or mitigation of risk in our loan portfolios; (vii) future capital or liquidity levels or targets and our estimated Common Equity Tier  

1 ratio under Basel III capital standards; (viii) the performance of our mortgage business and any related exposures; (ix) the expected outcome and impact of legal, regulatory and legislative developments, as well as our expectations regarding compliance therewith; (x) future common stock dividends, common share repurchases and other uses of capital; (xi) our targeted range for return on assets and return on equity; (xii) the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings; and (xiii) the Company s plans, objectives and strategies. 
  Forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts but instead represent our current expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. We caution you, therefore, against relying on any of these forward-looking statements. They are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. While there is no assurance that any list of risks and uncertainties or risk factors is complete,  

important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include the following, without limitation: 
             
    current and future economic and market conditions, including the effects of declines in housing prices, high unemployment rates, U.S. fiscal debt, budget and tax matters (including the impact of the Tax Cuts   Jobs Act), geopolitical matters, and the overall slowdown in global economic growth;  
                
    our capital and liquidity requirements (including under regulatory capital standards, such as the Basel III capital standards) and our ability to generate capital internally or raise capital on favorable terms; 
                
    financial services reform and other current, pending or future legislation or regulation that could have a negative effect on our revenue and businesses, including the Dodd-Frank Act and other legislation and regulation relating to bank products and services; 
                
    the extent of our success in our loan modification efforts, as well as the effects of regulatory requirements or guidance regarding loan modifications; 
                
    the amount of mortgage loan repurchase demands that we receive and our ability to satisfy any such demands without having to repurchase loans related thereto or otherwise indemnify or reimburse third parties, and the credit quality of or losses on such repurchased mortgage loans; 
                
    negative effects relating to our mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices, as well as changes in industry standards or practices, regulatory or judicial requirements, penalties or fines, increased servicing and other costs or obligations, including loan modification requirements, or delays or moratoriums on foreclosures; 
                
    our ability to realize our efficiency ratio target as part of our expense management initiatives, including as a result of business and economic cyclicality, seasonality, changes in our business composition and operating environment, growth in our businesses and/or acquisitions, and unexpected expenses relating to, among other things, litigation and regulatory matters; 
                
    the effect of the current low interest rate environment or changes in interest rates on our net interest income, net interest margin and our mortgage originations, mortgage servicing rights and mortgages held for sale; 
                
    significant turbulence or a disruption in the capital or financial markets, which could result in, among other things, reduced investor demand for mortgage loans, a reduction in the availability of funding or increased funding costs, and declines in asset values and/or recognition of other-than-temporary impairment on securities held in our investment securities portfolio; 

the effect of a fall in stock market prices on our investment banking business and our fee income from our brokerage, asset and wealth management businesses; 
                
    negative effects from the retail banking sales practices matter and from other instances where customers may have experienced financial harm, including on our legal, operational and compliance costs, our ability to engage in certain business activities or offer certain products or services, our ability to keep and attract customers, our ability to attract and retain qualified team members, and our reputation; 
                
    reputational damage from negative publicity, protests, fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations and legal actions; 
                
    a failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors or other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks; 
                
    the effect of changes in the level of checking or savings account deposits on our funding costs and net interest margin; 
                
    fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board; and 
                
    the other risk factors and uncertainties described under  Risk Factors  in this Report. 
       
  In addition to the above factors, we also caution that the amount and timing of any future common stock dividends or repurchases will depend on the earnings, cash requirements and financial condition of the Company, market conditions, capital requirements (including under Basel capital standards), common stock issuance requirements, applicable law and regulations (including federal securities laws and federal banking regulations), and other factors deemed relevant by the Company s Board of Directors, and may be subject to regulatory approval or conditions. 
  For more information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations, refer to our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the discussion under  Risk Factors  in this Report, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on its website at www.sec.gov.  
  Any forward-looking statement made by us speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by law. 

Risk Factors 

An investment in the Company involves risk, including the possibility that the value of the investment could fall substantially and that dividends or other distributions on the investment could be reduced or eliminated. We discuss below risk factors that could adversely affect our financial results and condition, and the value of, and return on, an investment in the Company. 

RISKS RELATED TO THE ECONOMY, FINANCIAL MARKETS, INTEREST RATES AND LIQUIDITY 
    
  As one of the largest lenders in the U.S. and a provider of financial products and services to consumers and businesses across the U.S. and internationally, our financial results have been, and will continue to be, materially     affected by     general economic conditions, particularly     unemployment levels and     home prices in the U.S., and a deterioration in economic conditions or in the financial markets may materially adversely affect  

Risk Factors   (continued) 

our lending and other businesses and our financial results and condition.    We generate revenue from the interest and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services we sell, and a substantial amount of our revenue and earnings comes from the net interest income and fee income that we earn from our consumer and commercial lending and banking businesses, including our mortgage banking business where we currently are the largest mortgage originator in the U.S. These businesses have been, and will continue to be, materially affected by the state of the U.S. economy, particularly unemployment levels and home prices. Although the U.S. economy has continued to gradually improve from the depressed levels of 2008 and early 2009, economic growth has been slow and uneven. In addition, the negative effects and continued uncertainty stemming from U.S. fiscal and political matters, including concerns about deficit levels, taxes and U.S. debt ratings, have impacted and may continue to impact the continuing global economic recovery. Moreover, geopolitical matters, including international political unrest or disturbances, Britain s vote to withdraw from the European Union, as well as continued concerns over commodity prices and global economic difficulties, may impact the stability of financial markets and the global economy. In particular, Britain s vote to withdraw from the European Union could increase economic barriers between Britain and the European Union, limit our ability to conduct business in the European Union, impose additional costs on us, subject us to different laws, regulations and/or regulatory authorities, or adversely impact our business, financial results and operating model. A prolonged period of slow growth in the global economy, particularly in the U.S., or any deterioration in general economic conditions and/or the financial markets resulting from the above matters or any other events or factors that may disrupt or dampen the global economic recovery  ,   could materially adversely affect our financial results and condition.  
  A weakening in business or economic conditions, including higher unemployment levels or declines in home prices, can also adversely affect our borrowers  ability to repay their loans, which can negatively impact our credit performance. If unemployment levels worsen or if home prices fall we would expect to incur elevated charge-offs and provision expense from increases in our allowance for credit losses. These conditions may adversely affect not only consumer loan performance but also commercial and CRE loans, especially for those business borrowers that rely on the health of industries that may experience deteriorating economic conditions. The ability of these and other borrowers to repay their loans may deteriorate, causing us, as one of the largest commercial and CRE lenders in the U.S., to incur significantly higher credit losses. In addition, weak or deteriorating economic conditions make it more challenging for us to increase our consumer and commercial loan portfolios by making loans to creditworthy borrowers at attractive yields. Furthermore, weak economic conditions, as well as competition and/or increases in interest rates, could soften demand for our loans resulting in our retaining a much higher amount of lower yielding liquid assets on our balance sheet. If economic conditions do not continue to improve or if the economy worsens and unemployment rises, which also would likely result in a decrease in consumer and business confidence and spending, the demand for our credit products, including our mortgages, may fall, reducing our interest and noninterest income and our earnings. 
  A deterioration in business and economic conditions, which may erode consumer and investor confidence levels, and/or increased volatility of financial markets, also could adversely affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including  

our investment advisory, mutual fund, securities brokerage, wealth management, and investment banking businesses. In   2017  , approximately   25%   of our revenue was fee income, which included trust and investment fees, card fees and other fees. We earn fee income from managing assets for others and providing brokerage and other investment advisory and wealth management services. Because investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a fall in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. Changes in stock market prices could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage business. The U.S. stock market experienced all-time highs in 2017, but also experienced significant volatility and there is no guarantee that high price levels will continue. Poor economic conditions and volatile or unstable financial markets also can negatively affect our debt and equity underwriting and advisory businesses, as well as our trading and venture capital businesses. Any deterioration in global financial markets and economies, including as a result of any international political unrest or disturbances, may adversely affect the revenues and earnings of our international operations, particularly our global financial institution and correspondent banking services. 
  For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management  and    Credit Risk Management  sections in this Report. 
    
  Changes in interest rates and financial market values could reduce our net interest income and earnings, as well as our other comprehensive income, including as a result of recognizing losses or OTTI on the securities that we hold in our portfolio or trade for our customers.        Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities and other assets we hold less 
  the interest we pay on our deposits, long-term and short-term debt, and other liabilities. Net interest income is a measure of both our net interest margin   the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding   and the amount of earning assets we hold. Changes in either our net interest margin or the amount or mix of earning assets we hold could affect our net interest income and our earnings. Changes in interest rates can affect our net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. If our funding costs rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets or if the yield we earn on our assets falls faster than our funding costs, our net interest margin could contract. 
  The amount and type of earning assets we hold can affect our yield and net interest margin. We hold earning assets in the form of loans and investment securities, among other assets. As noted above, if the economy worsens we may see lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, reducing our net interest income and yield. In addition, our net interest income and net interest margin can be negatively affected by a prolonged low interest rate environment, which is currently being experienced as a result of economic conditions and FRB monetary policies, as it may result in us holding lower yielding loans and securities on our balance sheet, particularly if we are unable to replace the maturing higher yielding assets with similar higher yielding assets. Increases in interest rates, however, may negatively affect loan demand and could result in higher credit losses as borrowers may have more difficulty making higher interest payments. As described below, changes in interest rates also affect our mortgage business, including the value of our MSRs. 

Changes in the slope of the  yield curve    or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates   could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. When the yield curve flattens, or even inverts, our net interest margin could decrease if the cost of our short-term funding increases relative to the yield we can earn on our long-term assets. 
  The interest we earn on our loans may be tied to U.S.-denominated interest rates such as the federal funds rate while the interest we pay on our debt may be based on international rates such as LIBOR. If the federal funds rate were to fall without a corresponding decrease in LIBOR, we might earn less on our loans without any offsetting decrease in our funding costs. This could lower our net interest margin and our net interest income. In addition, our floating rate funding, certain hedging transactions, and certain of the products that we offer, such as floating rate loans and derivatives in connection with customer accommodation activities, reference a benchmark rate, such as LIBOR, or other financial metric in order to determine the applicable interest rate or payment amount. In the event any such benchmark rate or other referenced financial metric is significantly changed, replaced or discontinued (for example, if LIBOR is discontinued), there may be uncertainty or differences in the calculation of the applicable interest rate or payment amount depending on the terms of the governing instrument and there may be significant work required to transition to using any new benchmark rate or other financial metric. This could result in different financial performance for previously booked transactions, require different hedging strategies, or require renegotiation of previously booked transactions, and may impact our existing transaction data, products, systems, operations and pricing processes. 
  We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude and speed of interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. We hedge some of that interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives. We also rely on the  natural hedge  that our mortgage loan originations and servicing rights can provide. 
  We generally do not hedge all of our interest rate risk. There is always the risk that changes in interest rates, credit spreads or option volatility could reduce our net interest income and earnings, as well as our other comprehensive income, in material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than what we assumed. For example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than we assumed or the slope of the yield curve changes, we may incur significant losses on debt securities we hold as investments. To reduce our interest rate risk, we may rebalance our investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt and take other strategic actions. We may incur losses when we take such actions. 
  We hold securities in our investment securities portfolio, including U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities and federal agency MBS, securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions, residential and commercial MBS, corporate debt securities, other asset-backed securities and marketable equity securities, including securities relating to our venture capital activities. We analyze securities held in our investment securities portfolio for OTTI on at least a quarterly basis. The process for determining whether impairment is other than temporary usually requires difficult, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving contractual principal and interest payments on the security.  

Because of changing economic and market conditions, as well as credit ratings, affecting issuers and the performance of the underlying collateral, we may be required to recognize OTTI in future periods. In particular, economic difficulties in the oil and gas industry resulting from prolonged low oil prices may further impact our energy sector investments and require us to recognize OTTI in these investments in future periods. Furthermore, the value of the securities we hold in our investment securities portfolio can fluctuate due to changes in interest rates and other factors. For example, the value of our investments in asset-backed securities can fluctuate due to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, and prepayment rates, as well as defaults by the borrowers on the underlying exposures. The value of our investments in municipal bonds may decline if tax reform, including lower income tax rates, affects the attractiveness of investing in such types of securities. Our net income also is exposed to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, and equity and commodity prices in connection with our trading activities, which are conducted primarily to accommodate the investment and risk management activities of our customers, as well as when we execute economic hedging to manage certain balance sheet risks. The securities held in these activities are carried at fair value with realized and unrealized gains and losses recorded in noninterest income. As part of our business to support our customers, we trade public securities and these securities also are subject to market fluctuations with gains and losses recognized in net income when realized and periodically include OTTI charges. In addition, although high market volatility can increase our exposure to trading-related losses, periods of low volatility may have an adverse effect on our businesses as a result of reduced customer activity levels. Although we have processes in place to measure and monitor the risks associated with our trading activities, including stress testing and hedging strategies, there can be no assurance that our processes and strategies will be effective in avoiding losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 
  The value of our public and private equity investments can fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Certain of these investments are carried under the cost or equity method, while others are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reflected in earnings. Earnings from our equity investments may be volatile and hard to predict, and may have a significant effect on our earnings from period to period. When, and if, we recognize gains may depend on a number of factors, including general economic and market conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when a company goes public, the size of our position relative to the public float, and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. 
  Our venture capital investments could result in significant OTTI losses for those investments carried under the cost or equity method. Our assessment for OTTI is based on a number of factors, including the then current market value of each investment compared with its carrying value. If we determine there is OTTI for an investment, we write-down the carrying value of the investment, resulting in a charge to earnings. The amount of this charge could be significant. 
  For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management   Interest Rate Risk ,    Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk ,    Market Risk   Trading Activities , and    Market Risk   Equity Investments  and the  Balance Sheet Analysis   Investment Securities  sections in this Report and Note 5 (Investment Securities) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

Risk Factors   (continued) 

Effective liquidity management, which ensures that we can meet customer loan requests, customer deposit maturities/withdrawals and other cash commitments, including principal and interest payments on our debt, efficiently under both normal operating conditions and other unpredictable circumstances of industry or financial market stress, is essential for the operation of our business, and our financial results and condition could be materially adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liquidity.        Our liquidity is essential for the operation of our business. We primarily rely on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans we make and the operation of our business. Customer deposits, which include noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing checking, savings certificates, certain market rate and other savings, and certain foreign deposits, have historically provided us with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds. In addition to customer deposits, our sources of liquidity include investments in our securities portfolio, our ability to sell or securitize loans in secondary markets and to pledge loans to access secured borrowing facilities through the FHLB and the FRB, and our ability to raise funds in domestic and international money through capital markets. 
  Our liquidity and our ability to fund and run our business could be materially adversely affected by a variety of conditions and factors, including financial and credit market disruption and volatility or a lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets in general similar to what occurred during the financial crisis in 2008 and early 2009, which may result in a loss of customer deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or our inability to access capital markets on favorable terms. Market disruption and volatility could impact our credit spreads, which are the amount in excess of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury securities, or other benchmark securities, of the same maturity that we need to pay to our funding providers. Increases in interest rates and our credit spreads could significantly increase our funding costs. Other conditions and factors that could materially adversely affect our liquidity and funding include a lack of market or customer confidence in the Company or negative news about the Company or the financial services industry generally which also may result in a loss of deposits and/or negatively affect our ability to access the capital markets; our inability to sell or securitize loans or other assets; and, as described below, reductions in one or more of our credit ratings. Many of the above conditions and factors may be caused by events over which we have little or no control. While market conditions have continued to improve since the financial crisis, there can be no assurance that significant disruption and volatility in the financial markets will not occur in the future. For example, concerns over geopolitical issues, commodity and currency prices, as well as global economic conditions, may cause financial market volatility. 
  In addition, concerns regarding U.S. government debt levels and any associated downgrade of U.S. government debt ratings may cause uncertainty and volatility as well. A downgrade of the sovereign debt ratings of the U.S. government or the debt ratings of related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities, as well as other fiscal or political events could, in addition to causing economic and financial market disruptions, materially adversely affect the market value of the U.S. government securities that we hold, the availability of those securities as collateral for borrowing, and our ability to access capital markets on favorable terms, as well as have other material adverse effects on the operation of our business and our financial results and condition. 

As noted above, we rely heavily on bank deposits for our funding and liquidity. We compete with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. If our competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits our funding costs may increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing deposits or because we lose deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. When customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, we may lose a relatively low cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and negatively affecting our liquidity. 
  If we are unable to continue to fund our assets through customer bank deposits or access capital markets on favorable terms or if we suffer an increase in our borrowing costs or otherwise fail to manage our liquidity effectively (including on an intraday basis), our liquidity, net interest margin, financial results and condition may be materially adversely affected. As we did during the financial crisis, we may also need, or be required by our regulators, to raise additional capital through the issuance of common stock, which could dilute the ownership of existing stockholders, or reduce or even eliminate our common stock dividend to preserve capital or in order to raise additional capital.    
  For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management  section in this Report. 
    
  Adverse changes in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows, financial results and condition.        Our borrowing costs and ability to obtain funding are influenced by our credit ratings. Reductions in one or more of our credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to borrow funds and raise the costs of our borrowings substantially and could cause creditors and business counterparties to raise collateral requirements or take other actions that could adversely affect our ability to raise funding. Credit ratings and credit ratings agencies  outlooks are based on the ratings agencies  analysis of many quantitative and qualitative factors, such as our capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, the level and quality of our earnings, rating agency assumptions regarding the probability and extent of federal financial assistance or support, and other rating agency specific criteria. In addition to credit ratings, our borrowing costs are affected by various other external factors, including market volatility and concerns or perceptions about the financial services industry generally. There can be no assurance that we will maintain our credit ratings and outlooks and that credit ratings downgrades in the future would not materially affect our ability to borrow funds and borrowing costs. 
  Downgrades in our credit ratings also may trigger additional collateral or funding obligations which could negatively affect our liquidity, including as a result of credit-related contingent features in certain of our derivative contracts. Although a one or two notch downgrade in our current credit ratings would not be expected to trigger a material increase in our collateral or funding obligations, a more severe credit rating downgrade of our long-term and short-term credit ratings could increase our collateral or funding obligations and the effect on our liquidity could be material.  
  For information on our credit ratings, see the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management   Liquidity and  

Funding   Credit Ratings  section and for information regarding additional collateral and funding obligations required of certain derivative instruments in the event our credit ratings were to fall below investment grade, see Note 16 (Derivatives) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
    
  We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for liquidity, and federal and state law, as well as certain contractual arrangements, can limit those dividends.   Wells Fargo   Company, the parent holding company (the  Parent ), is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives substantially all of its funding and liquidity from dividends and other distributions from its subsidiaries. We generally use these dividends and distributions, among other things, to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. Federal and state laws limit the amount of dividends and distributions that our bank and some of our nonbank subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, may pay to the Parent. In addition, under a Support Agreement (the  Support Agreement ) dated June 28, 2017 among the Parent, WFC Holdings, LLC, an intermediate holding company and subsidiary of the Parent (the  IHC ), and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, and Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC, each an indirect subsidiary of the Parent, the IHC may be restricted from making dividend payments to the Parent if certain liquidity and/or capital metrics fall below defined triggers. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors. 
  For more information, refer to the  Regulation and Supervision   Dividend Restrictions  and    Holding Company Structure  sections in our   2017   Form 10-K and to Note 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions) and Note 27 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
    
  RISKS RELATED TO FINANCIAL REGULATORY REFORM AND OTHER LEGISLATION AND REGULATIONS 
    
  Enacted legislation and regulation, including the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as future legislation and/or regulation, could require us to change certain of our business practices, reduce our revenue and earnings, impose additional costs on us or otherwise adversely affect our business operations and/or competitive position.    Our parent company, our subsidiary banks and many of our nonbank subsidiaries such as those related to our brokerage and mutual fund businesses, are subject to significant and extensive regulation under state and federal laws in the U.S., as well as the applicable laws of the various jurisdictions outside of the U.S. where we conduct business. These regulations protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers, investors, team members, and the banking and financial system as a whole, not necessarily our security holders. Economic, market and political conditions during the past few years have led to a significant amount of legislation and regulation in the U.S. and abroad affecting the financial services industry, as well as heightened expectations and scrutiny of financial services companies from banking regulators. These laws and regulations may affect the manner in which we do business and the products and services that we provide, affect or restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses or our ability to enter into or acquire new businesses, reduce or limit our revenue in  

businesses or impose additional fees, assessments or taxes on us, intensify the regulatory supervision of us and the financial services industry, and adversely affect our business operations or have other negative consequences. In addition, greater government oversight and scrutiny of financial services companies has increased our operational and compliance costs as we must continue to devote substantial resources to enhancing our procedures and controls and meeting heightened regulatory standards and expectations. Any failure to meet regulatory requirements, standards or expectations could result in fees, penalties, restrictions on our ability to engage in certain business activities, or other adverse consequences. 
  On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act, the most significant financial reform legislation since the 1930s, became law. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, imposes significant requirements and restrictions impacting the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act, including current and future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, could result in a loss of revenue, require us to change certain of our business practices, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, increase our capital requirements and impose additional assessments and costs on us and otherwise adversely affect our business operations and have other negative consequences. 
  Our consumer businesses, including our mortgage, automobile, credit card and other consumer lending and non-lending businesses, are subject to numerous and, in many cases, highly complex consumer protection laws and regulations, as well as enhanced regulatory scrutiny and more and expanded regulatory examinations and/or investigations. In particular, we may be negatively affected by the activities of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which has broad rulemaking powers and supervisory authority over consumer financial products and services. Although the full impact of the CFPB on our businesses is uncertain, the CFPB s activities may increase our compliance costs and require changes in our business practices as a result of new regulations and requirements which could limit or negatively affect the products and services that we currently offer our customers. For example, the CFPB has issued a number of rules impacting residential mortgage lending practices and prepaid cards. If we fail to meet enhanced regulatory requirements and expectations with respect to our consumer businesses, we may be subject to increased costs, fines, penalties, restrictions on our business activities including the products and services we can provide, and/or harm to our reputation. 
  The Dodd-Frank Act s proposed prohibitions or limitations on proprietary trading and private fund investment activities, known as the  Volcker Rule,  also may reduce our revenue. Final rules to implement the requirements of the Volcker Rule were issued in December 2013. Wells Fargo is also subject to enhanced compliance program requirements.  
  In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act established a comprehensive framework for regulating over-the-counter derivatives and authorized the CFTC and SEC to regulate swaps and security-based swaps, respectively. The CFTC has adopted rules applicable to our provisionally registered swap dealer, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., that require, among other things, extensive regulatory and public reporting of swaps, central clearing and trading of swaps on exchanges or other multilateral platforms, and compliance with comprehensive internal and external business conduct standards. The SEC is expected to implement parallel rules applicable to security-based swaps. In addition, federal regulators have adopted final rules establishing margin requirements for swaps and security-based swaps not  

Risk Factors   (continued) 

centrally cleared. All of these new rules, as well as others being considered by regulators in other jurisdictions, may negatively impact customer demand for over-the-counter derivatives and may increase our costs for engaging in swaps and other derivatives activities. 
  The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes changes on the ABS markets by requiring sponsors of certain ABS to hold at least a 5% ownership stake in the ABS. Federal regulatory agencies have issued final rules to implement this credit risk retention requirement, which included an exemption for, among other things, GSE mortgage backed securities. The final rules may impact our ability to issue certain ABS or otherwise participate in various securitization transactions.  
  Through a Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF), the FDIC insures the deposits of our banks up to prescribed limits for each depositor and funds the DIF through assessments on member insured depository institutions. In March 2016, the FDIC issued a final rule, which became effective on July 1, 2016, that imposes on insured depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, such as Wells Fargo, a surcharge of 4.5 cents per $100 of their assessment base, after making certain adjustments. The surcharge is in addition to the base assessments we pay and could significantly increase the overall amount of our deposit insurance assessments. The FDIC expects the surcharge to be in effect for approximately two years; however, if the DIF reserve ratio does not reach 1.35% by December 31, 2018, the final rule provides that the FDIC will impose a shortfall assessment on any bank that was subject to the surcharge. 
  We are also subject to various rules and regulations related to the prevention of financial crimes and combating terrorism, including the U.S. Patriot Act of 2001. These rules and regulations require us to, among other things, implement policies and procedures related to anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and corruption, fraud, compliance, suspicious activities, currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. Although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with these rules and regulations, to the extent they are not fully effective or do not meet heightened regulatory standards or expectations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, restrictions on certain activities, reputational harm, or other adverse consequences. 
  Our businesses are also subject to laws and regulations enacted by U.S. and non-U.S. regulators and governmental authorities relating to the privacy of the information of customers, team members and others. These laws and regulations, among other things, increase our compliance obligations; have a significant impact on our businesses  collection, processing, sharing, use, and retention of personal data and reporting of data breaches; and provide for significantly increased penalties for non-compliance. 
  In April 2016, the U.S. Department of Labor adopted a rule under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) that, among other changes and subject to certain exceptions, as of the applicability date of June 9, 2017, makes anyone, including broker-dealers, providing investment advice to retirement investors a fiduciary who must act in the best interest of clients when providing investment advice for direct or indirect compensation to a retirement plan, to a plan fiduciary, participant or beneficiary, or to an investment retirement account (IRA) or IRA holder. The rule impacts the manner in which business is conducted with retirement investors and affects product offerings with respect to retirement plans and IRAs. 
  On November 18, 2016, the OCC revoked provisions of certain consent orders that provided Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.  

relief from specific requirements and limitations regarding rules, policies, and procedures for corporate activities; OCC approval of changes in directors and senior executive officers; and golden parachute payments. As a result, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is no longer eligible for expedited treatment for certain applications; is now required to provide prior written notice to the OCC of a change in directors and senior executive officers; and is now subject to certain regulatory limitations on golden parachute payments. 
  In March 2017, we announced that the OCC had downgraded our most recent Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) rating, which covers the years 2009-2012, to  Needs to Improve  due to previously issued regulatory consent orders. A  Needs to Improve  rating imposes regulatory restrictions and limitations on certain of the Company s nonbank activities, including its ability to engage in certain nonbank mergers and acquisitions or undertake new financial in nature activities, and CRA performance is taken into account by regulators in reviewing applications to establish bank branches and for approving proposed bank mergers and acquisitions. The rating also results in the loss of expedited processing of applications to undertake certain activities, and requires the Company to receive prior regulatory approval for certain activities, including to issue or prepay certain subordinated debt obligations, open or relocate bank branches, or make certain public welfare investments. In addition, a  Needs to Improve  rating could have an impact on the Company s relationships with certain states, counties, municipalities or other public agencies to the extent applicable law, regulation or policy limits, restricts or influences whether such entity may do business with a company that has a below  Satisfactory  rating. 
  On February 2, 2018, the Company entered into a consent order with the FRB, which requires the Company to submit to the FRB within 60 days of the date of the consent order plans to further enhance the Board's governance oversight and the Company s compliance and operational risk management. The consent order also requires third-party reviews related to the adoption and implementation of such plans by September 30, 2018. Until these third-party reviews are complete and the plans are approved and implemented to the satisfaction of the FRB, the Company s total consolidated assets will be limited to the level as of December 31, 2017, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Compliance with this asset cap will be measured on a two-quarter daily average basis to allow for management of temporary fluctuations. Once the asset cap limitation is removed, a second third-party review must be conducted to assess the efficacy and sustainability of the improvements. The Company may be subject to further actions, including the imposition of consent orders or similar regulatory agreements or civil money penalties, by other federal regulators regarding similar issues, including the Company s risk management policies and procedures. 
  Other future regulatory initiatives that could significantly affect our business include proposals to reform the housing finance market in the United States. These proposals, among other things, consider winding down the GSEs and reducing or eliminating over time the role of the GSEs in guaranteeing mortgages and providing funding for mortgage loans, as well as the implementation of reforms relating to borrowers, lenders, and investors in the mortgage market, including reducing the maximum size of a loan that the GSEs can guarantee, phasing in a minimum down payment requirement for borrowers, improving underwriting standards, and increasing accountability and transparency in the securitization process. Congress also may consider the adoption of legislation to reform  

the mortgage financing market in an effort to assist borrowers experiencing difficulty in making mortgage payments or refinancing their mortgages. The extent and timing of any regulatory reform or the adoption of any legislation regarding the GSEs and/or the home mortgage market, as well as any effect on the Company s business and financial results, are uncertain. 
  Any other future legislation and/or regulation, if adopted, also could significantly change our regulatory environment and increase our cost of doing business, limit the activities we may pursue or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial services companies, and have a material adverse effect on our financial results and condition. 
  For more information, refer to the  Regulatory Matters  section in this Report and the  Regulation and Supervision  section in our   2017   Form 10-K.  
    
  We could be subject to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities or operations if regulators determine that our resolution or recovery plan is deficient.    Pursuant to rules adopted by the FRB and the FDIC, Wells Fargo has prepared and filed a resolution plan, a so-called  living will,  that is designed to facilitate our resolution in the event of material distress or failure. There can be no assurance that the FRB or FDIC will respond favorably to the Company s resolution plans. If the FRB or FDIC determines that our resolution plan has deficiencies, they may impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements on us or restrict our growth, activities or operations until we adequately remedy the deficiencies. If the FRB or FDIC ultimately determines that we have been unable to remedy any deficiencies, they could require us to divest certain assets or operations.  
  We must also prepare and submit to the FRB a recovery plan that identifies a range of options that we may consider during times of idiosyncratic or systemic economic stress to remedy any financial weaknesses and restore market confidence without extraordinary government support. Recovery options include the possible sale, transfer or disposal of assets, securities, loan portfolios or businesses. Our insured national bank subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (the  Bank ), must also prepare and submit to the OCC a recovery plan that sets forth the Bank s plan to remain a going concern when the Bank is experiencing considerable financial or operational stress, but has not yet deteriorated to the point where liquidation or resolution is imminent. If the FRB or the OCC determines that our recovery plan is deficient, they may impose fines, restrictions on our business or ultimately require us to divest assets. 
    
  Our security holders may suffer losses in a resolution of Wells Fargo, whether in a bankruptcy proceeding or under the orderly liquidation authority of the FDIC, even if creditors of our subsidiaries are paid in full.    If Wells Fargo were to fail, it may be resolved in a bankruptcy proceeding or, if certain conditions are met, under the resolution regime created by the Dodd-Frank Act known as the  orderly liquidation authority.  The orderly liquidation authority allows for the appointment of the FDIC as receiver for a systemically important financial institution that is in default or in danger of default if, among other things, the resolution of the institution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the United States. If the FDIC is appointed as receiver for Wells Fargo   Company (the  Parent ), then the orderly liquidation authority, rather than the U.S.  

Bankruptcy Code, would determine the powers of the receiver and the rights and obligations of our security holders. The FDIC s orderly liquidation authority requires that security holders of a company in receivership bear all losses before U.S. taxpayers are exposed to any losses, and allows the FDIC to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in certain circumstances. 
  Whether under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or by the FDIC under the orderly liquidation authority, Wells Fargo could be resolved using a  multiple point of entry  strategy, in which the Parent and one or more of its subsidiaries would each undergo separate resolution proceedings, or a  single point of entry  strategy, in which the Parent would likely be the only material legal entity to enter resolution proceedings. The FDIC has announced that a single point of entry strategy may be a desirable strategy under its implementation of the orderly liquidation authority, but not all aspects of how the FDIC might exercise this authority are known and additional rulemaking is possible. 
  The strategy described in our most recent resolution plan submission is a multiple point of entry strategy; however, we have made a decision to move to a single point of entry strategy for our next resolution plan submission. We are not obligated to maintain either a single point of entry or multiple point of entry strategy, and the strategies reflected in our resolution plan submissions are not binding in the event of an actual resolution of Wells Fargo, whether conducted under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or by the FDIC under the orderly liquidation authority. 
  To facilitate the orderly resolution of systemically important financial institutions in case of material distress or failure, federal banking regulations require that institutions, such as Wells Fargo, maintain a minimum amount of equity and unsecured debt to absorb losses and recapitalize operating subsidiaries. Federal banking regulators have also required measures to facilitate the continued operation of operating subsidiaries notwithstanding the failure of their parent companies, such as limitations on parent guarantees, and have issued guidance encouraging institutions to take legally binding measures to provide capital and liquidity resources to certain subsidiaries in order to facilitate an orderly resolution. In response to the regulators  guidance and to facilitate the orderly resolution of the Company using either a single point of entry or multiple point of entry resolution strategy, on June 28, 2017, the Parent entered into the Support Agreement with WFC Holdings, LLC, an intermediate holding company and subsidiary of the Parent (the  IHC ), and the Bank, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC ( WFS ), and Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC ( WFCS ), each an indirect subsidiary of the Parent. Pursuant to the Support Agreement, the Parent transferred a significant amount of its assets, including the majority of its cash, deposits, liquid securities and intercompany loans (but excluding its equity interests in its subsidiaries and certain other assets), to the IHC and will continue to transfer those types of assets to the IHC from time to time. In the event of our material financial distress or failure, the IHC will be obligated to use the transferred assets to provide capital and/or liquidity to the Bank pursuant to the Support Agreement and to WFS and WFCS through repurchase facilities entered into in connection with the Support Agreement. Under the Support Agreement, the IHC will also provide funding and liquidity to the Parent through subordinated notes and a committed line of credit, which, together with the issuance of dividends, is expected to provide the Parent, during business as usual operating conditions, with the same access to cash necessary to service its debts, pay dividends, repurchase its shares, and perform its other obligations as it would have had if  

Risk Factors   (continued) 

it had not entered into these arrangements and transferred any assets. If certain liquidity and/or capital metrics fall below defined triggers, the subordinated notes would be forgiven and the committed line of credit would terminate, which could materially and adversely impact the Parent s liquidity and its ability to satisfy its debts and other obligations, and could result in the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings by the Parent at an earlier time than might have otherwise occurred if the Support Agreement were not implemented. The Parent's and the IHC's respective obligations under the Support Agreement are secured pursuant to a related security agreement. 
  Any resolution of the Company will likely impose losses on shareholders, unsecured debt holders and other creditors of the Parent, while the Parent s subsidiaries may continue to operate. Creditors of some or all of our subsidiaries may receive significant or full recoveries on their claims, while the Parent s security holders could face significant or complete losses. This outcome may arise whether the Company is resolved under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or by the FDIC under the orderly liquidation authority, and whether the resolution is conducted using a multiple point of entry or a single point of entry strategy. Furthermore, in a multiple point of entry or single point of entry strategy, losses at some or all of our subsidiaries could be transferred to the Parent and borne by the Parent s security holders. Moreover, if either resolution strategy proved to be unsuccessful, our security holders could face greater losses than if the strategy had not been implemented. 
    
  Bank regulations, including Basel capital and liquidity standards and FRB guidelines and rules, may require higher capital and liquidity levels, limiting our ability to pay common stock dividends, repurchase our common stock, invest in our business, or provide loans or other products and services to our customers  .  The Company and each of our insured depository institutions are subject to various regulatory capital adequacy requirements administered by federal banking regulators. In particular, the Company is subject to final and interim final rules issued by federal banking regulators to implement Basel III capital requirements for U.S. banking organizations. These rules are based on international guidelines for determining regulatory capital issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). The federal banking regulators  capital rules, among other things, require on a fully phased-in basis:  
             
    a minimum Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio of 9.0%, comprised of a 4.5% minimum requirement plus a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% and for us, as a global systemically important bank (G-SIB), a capital surcharge to be calculated annually, which is 2.0% based on our year-end 2016 data; 
                
    a minimum tier 1 capital ratio of 10.5%, comprised of a 6.0% minimum requirement plus the capital conservation buffer of 2.5% and the G-SIB capital surcharge of 2.0%; 
                
    a minimum total capital ratio of 12.5%, comprised of a 8.0% minimum requirement plus the capital conservation buffer of 2.5% and the G-SIB capital surcharge of 2.0%; 
                
    a potential countercyclical buffer of up to 2.5% to be added to the minimum capital ratios, which is currently not in effect but could be imposed by regulators at their discretion if it is determined that a period of excessive credit growth is contributing to an increase in systemic risk; 
                
    a minimum tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0%; and 
                
    a minimum supplementary leverage ratio (SLR) of 5.0% (comprised of a 3.0% minimum requirement plus a  

supplementary leverage buffer of 2.0%) for large and internationally active bank holding companies (BHCs). 
    
  We were required to comply with the final Basel III capital rules beginning January 2014, with certain provisions subject to phase-in periods. The Basel III capital rules are scheduled to be fully phased in by the end of 2021. 
  Because the Company has been designated as a G-SIB, we will also be subject to the FRB s rule implementing the additional capital surcharge of between 1.0-4.5% on G-SIBs. Under the rule, we must annually calculate our surcharge under two prescribed methods and use the higher of the two surcharges. The G-SIB surcharge will be phased in beginning on January 1, 2016 and become fully effective on January 1, 2019. Based on year-end 2016 data, our 2018 G-SIB surcharge is 2.0% of the Company s RWAs. However, because the G-SIB surcharge is calculated annually based on data that can differ over time, the amount of the surcharge is subject to change in future periods. 
  In April 2014, federal banking regulators finalized a rule that enhances the SLR requirements for BHCs, like Wells Fargo, and their insured depository institutions. The SLR consists of tier 1 capital under Basel III divided by the Company s total leverage exposure. Total leverage exposure consists of the total average on-balance sheet assets, plus off-balance sheet exposures, such as undrawn commitments and derivative exposures, less amounts permitted to be deducted from tier 1 capital. The rule, which became effective on January 1, 2018, requires a covered BHC to maintain a SLR of at least 5.0% (comprised of the 3.0% minimum requirement plus a supplementary leverage buffer of 2.0%) to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. The rule also requires that all of our insured depository institutions maintain a SLR of 6.0% under applicable regulatory capital adequacy guidelines.  
  In December 2016, the FRB finalized rules to address the amount of equity and unsecured long-term debt a U.S. G-SIB must hold to improve its resolvability and resiliency, often referred to as Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (TLAC). Under the rules, which become effective on January 1, 2019, U.S. G-SIBs will be required to have a minimum TLAC amount (consisting of CET1 capital and additional tier 1 capital issued directly by the top-tier or covered BHC plus eligible external long-term debt) equal to the greater of (i) 18% of RWAs and (ii) 7.5% of total leverage exposure (the denominator of the SLR calculation). Additionally, U.S. G-SIBs will be required to maintain (i) a TLAC buffer equal to 2.5% of RWAs plus the firm s applicable G-SIB capital surcharge calculated under method one of the G-SIB calculation plus any applicable countercyclical buffer that will be added to the 18% minimum and (ii) an external TLAC leverage buffer equal to 2.0% of total leverage exposure that will be added to the 7.5% minimum, in order to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. The rules will also require U.S. G-SIBs to have a minimum amount of eligible unsecured long-term debt equal to the greater of (i) 6.0% of RWAs plus the firm s applicable G-SIB capital surcharge calculated under method two of the G-SIB calculation and        (ii) 4.5% of the total leverage exposure. In addition, the rules will impose certain restrictions on the operations and liabilities of the top-tier or covered BHC in order to further facilitate an orderly resolution, including prohibitions on the issuance of short-term debt to external investors and on entering into derivatives and certain other types of financial contracts with external counterparties. While the rules permit permanent grandfathering of a significant portion of otherwise ineligible long-term debt that was issued prior to December 31, 2016, long- 

term debt issued after that date must be fully compliant with the eligibility requirements of the rules in order to count toward the minimum TLAC amount. As a result of the rules, we will need to issue additional long-term debt to remain compliant with the requirements.  
  In September 2014, federal banking regulators issued a final rule that implements a quantitative liquidity requirement consistent with the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) established by the BCBS. The rule requires banking institutions, such as Wells Fargo, to hold high-quality liquid assets, such as central bank reserves and government and corporate debt that can be converted easily and quickly into cash, in an amount equal to or greater than its projected net cash outflows during a 30-day stress period. The FRB also finalized rules imposing enhanced liquidity management standards on large BHCs such as Wells Fargo, and has finalized a rule that requires large bank holding companies to publicly disclose on a quarterly basis certain quantitative and qualitative information regarding their LCR calculations. 
  As part of its obligation to impose enhanced capital and risk-management standards on large financial firms pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FRB issued a final capital plan rule that requires large BHCs, including the Company, to submit annual capital plans for review and to obtain regulatory approval before making capital distributions. There can be no assurance that the FRB would respond favorably to the Company s future capital plans. The FRB has also finalized a number of regulations implementing enhanced prudential requirements for large BHCs like Wells Fargo regarding risk-based capital and leverage, risk and liquidity management, and imposing debt-to-equity limits on any BHC that regulators determine poses a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States. The FRB and OCC have also finalized rules implementing stress testing requirements for large BHCs and national banks. The FRB has also re-proposed, but not yet finalized, additional enhanced prudential standards that would implement single counterparty credit limits and establish remediation requirements for large BHCs experiencing financial distress. The OCC, under separate authority, has also established heightened governance and risk management standards for large national banks, such as Wells Fargo  
  Bank, N.A. 
  The Basel standards and federal regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital, including common stock dividends and stock repurchases, and may require us to increase our capital and/or liquidity. Any requirement that we increase our regulatory capital, regulatory capital ratios or liquidity, including as a result of business growth, acquisitions or a change in our risk profile, could require us to liquidate assets or otherwise change our business, product offerings and/or investment plans, which may negatively affect our financial results. Although not currently anticipated, proposed capital requirements and/or our regulators may require us to raise additional capital in the future. Issuing additional common stock may dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. In addition, federal banking regulations may increase our compliance costs as well as limit our ability to invest in our business or provide loans or other products and services to our customers.  
  For more information, refer to the  Capital Management  and  Regulatory Matters  sections in this Report and the  Regulation and Supervision  section of our   2017   Form 10-K. 
    
  FRB policies, including policies on interest rates, can significantly affect business and economic conditions and our financial results and condition.    The FRB  

regulates the supply of money in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest income and net interest margin. The FRB s interest rate policies also can materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities and MSRs. In addition, its policies can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in FRB policies are beyond our control and can be hard to predict. The FRB recently increased the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to a target range of 125 to 150 basis points. The FRB has stated that in determining the timing and size of any future adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the FRB will assess realized and expected economic conditions relative to its objectives of maximum employment and 2% inflation. As noted above, a declining or low interest rate environment and a flattening yield curve which may result from the FRB s actions could negatively affect our net interest income and net interest margin as it may result in us holding lower yielding loans and investment securities on our balance sheet. 
    
  CREDIT RISK 
    
  As one of the largest lenders in the U.S., increased credit risk, including as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions,     could require us to increase our     provision for credit losses and     allowance for credit losses     and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.    When we loan money or commit to loan money we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. As one of the largest lenders in the U.S., the credit performance of our loan portfolios significantly affects our financial results and condition. As noted above, if the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more of our customers may have difficulty in repaying their loans or other obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and provision for credit losses. We reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio (including unfunded credit commitments). The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices and higher unemployment, significant loan growth, or other factors. Additionally, the regulatory environment or external factors, such as natural disasters, also can influence recognition of credit losses in our loan portfolios and impact our allowance for credit losses. 
  Our provision for credit losses was   $400 million   less than net charge-offs in 2017 and   $250 million   more than net charge-offs in   2016  , which had a positive effect on our earnings in 2017 but a negative effect in 2016. Future allowance levels may increase or decrease based on a variety of factors, including loan growth, portfolio performance and general economic conditions. While we believe that our allowance for credit losses was appropriate at   December 31, 2017  , there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover future credit losses, especially if housing and employment conditions worsen. In the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions or if we  

Risk Factors   (continued) 

experience significant loan growth, we may be required to build reserves in future periods, which would reduce our earnings. 
  For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  and  Critical Accounting Policies   Allowance for Credit Losses  sections in this Report. 
    
  We may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent our loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral.    Our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated to borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or to borrowers who individually or as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. Similarly, challenging economic or market conditions affecting a particular industry or geography may also impact related or dependent industries or the ability of borrowers living in such affected areas or working in such industries to meet their financial obligations. We experienced the effect of concentration risk in 2009 and 2010 when we incurred greater than expected losses in our residential real estate loan portfolio due to a housing slowdown and greater than expected deterioration in residential real estate values in many markets, including the Central Valley California market and several Southern California metropolitan statistical areas. As California is our largest banking state in terms of loans and deposits, deterioration in real estate values and underlying economic conditions in those markets or elsewhere in California could result in materially higher credit losses. In addition, deterioration in macro-economic conditions generally across the country could result in materially higher credit losses, including for our residential real estate loan portfolio, which includes nonconforming mortgage loans we retain on our balance sheet. We may experience higher delinquencies and higher loss rates as our consumer real estate secured lines of credit reach their contractual end of draw period and begin to amortize. Additionally, we may experience higher delinquencies and higher loss rates as borrowers in our consumer Pick-a-Pay portfolio reach their recast trigger, particularly if interest rates increase significantly which may cause more borrowers to experience a payment increase of more than 7.5% upon recast. 
  We are currently one of the largest CRE lenders in the U.S. A deterioration in economic conditions that negatively affects the business performance of our CRE borrowers, including increases in interest rates and/or declines in commercial property values, could result in materially higher credit losses and have a material adverse effect on our financial results and condition.  
  Challenges and/or changes in foreign economic conditions may increase our foreign credit risk. Our foreign loan exposure represented approximately   7%   of our total consolidated outstanding loans and   4%   of our total assets at   December 31, 2017  . Economic difficulties in foreign jurisdictions could also indirectly have a material adverse effect on our credit performance and results of operations and financial condition to the extent they negatively affect the U.S. economy and/or our borrowers who have foreign operations.  
  For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
    
  We may incur losses on loans, securities and other acquired assets of Wachovia that are materially greater than reflected in our fair value adjustments.    We accounted for the Wachovia merger under the purchase method  

of accounting, recording the acquired assets and liabilities of Wachovia at fair value. All PCI loans acquired in the merger were recorded at fair value based on the present value of their expected cash flows. We estimated cash flows using internal credit, interest rate and prepayment risk models using assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. We may not realize the estimated cash flows or fair value of these loans. In addition, although the difference between the pre-merger carrying value of the credit-impaired loans and their expected cash flows   the  nonaccretable difference    is available to absorb future charge-offs, we may be required to increase our allowance for credit losses and related provision expense because of subsequent additional credit deterioration in these loans. 
  For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management  section in this Report. 
    
  RISKS RELATED TO OUR MORTGAGE BUSINESS 
    
  Our mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter, including from the impact of changes in interest rates on our origination activity and on the value of our MSRs, MHFS and associated economic hedges, and we rely on the GSEs to purchase our conforming loans to reduce our credit risk and provide liquidity to fund new mortgage loans.    We were the largest mortgage originator and residential mortgage servicer in the U.S. as of   December 31, 2017  , and we earn revenue from fees we receive for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. As a result of our mortgage servicing business, we have a sizeable portfolio of MSRs. An MSR is the right to service a mortgage loan   collect principal, interest and escrow amounts   for a fee. We acquire MSRs when we retain the servicing rights after we sell or securitize the loans we have originated or when we purchase the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. We initially measure and carry all our residential MSRs using the fair value measurement method. Fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. When interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our MSRs can decrease. Each quarter we evaluate the fair value of our MSRs, and any decrease in fair value reduces earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs. We also measure at fair value MHFS for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist. In addition, we measure at fair value certain other interests we hold related to residential loan sales and securitizations. Similar to other interest-bearing securities, the value of these MHFS and other interests may be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. For example, if market interest rates increase relative to the yield on these MHFS and other interests, their fair value may fall. 
  When rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations. Under the same conditions, revenue from our MSRs can increase through increases in fair value. When rates fall, mortgage originations usually tend to increase and the value of our MSRs usually tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. Even though they can act as a  natural hedge,  the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the  

fair value of residential MSRs is generally immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the MSRs relating to the new loans would generally accrue over time. It is also possible that, because of economic conditions and/or a weak or deteriorating housing market, even if interest rates were to fall or remain low, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the MSRs value caused by the lower rates. 
  We typically use derivatives and other instruments to hedge our mortgage banking interest rate risk. We may not hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the risk. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring, and is not a perfect science. We may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. We could incur significant losses from our hedging activities. There may be periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk. 
  We rely on GSEs to purchase mortgage loans that meet their conforming loan requirements and on the Federal Housing Authority (FHA) to insure loans that meet their policy requirements. These loans are then securitized into either GSE or GNMA securities that are sold to investors. In order to meet customer needs, we also originate loans that do not conform to either GSE or FHA standards, which are referred to as  nonconforming  loans. We generally retain these nonconforming loans on our balance sheet. When we retain a loan on our balance sheet not only do we forgo fee revenue and keep the credit risk of the loan but we also do not receive any sale proceeds that could be used to generate new loans. If we were unable or unwilling to continue retaining nonconforming loans on our balance sheet, whether due to regulatory, business or other reasons, our ability to originate new nonconforming loans may be reduced, thereby reducing the interest income we earn from originating these loans. Similarly, if the GSEs or the FHA were to limit or reduce their purchases or insuring of loans, our ability to fund, and thus originate new mortgage loans, could also be reduced. We cannot assure that the GSEs or the FHA will not materially limit their purchases or insuring of conforming loans or change their criteria for what constitutes a conforming loan (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). Each of the GSEs is currently in conservatorship, with its primary regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency acting as conservator. We cannot predict if, when or how the conservatorship will end, or any associated changes to the GSEs business structure and operations that could result. As noted above, there are various proposals to reform the housing finance market in the U.S., including the role of the GSEs in the housing finance market. The impact of any such regulatory reform regarding the housing finance market and the GSEs, including whether the GSEs will continue to exist in their current form, as well as any effect on the Company s business and financial results, are uncertain. 
  For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Asset/Liability Management   Mortgage Banking Interest Rate and Market Risk  and  Critical Accounting Policies  sections in this Report. 
    
  We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or reimburse investors and others as a result of breaches in contractual representations and warranties, and we may incur other losses as a result of real or alleged violations of statutes or regulations applicable to the origination of our residential mortgage loans.      The  

origination of residential mortgage loans is governed by a variety of federal and state laws and regulations, including the Truth in Lending Act of 1968 and various anti-fraud and consumer protection statutes, which are complex and frequently changing. We often sell residential mortgage loans that we originate to various parties, including GSEs, SPEs that issue private label MBS, and other financial institutions that purchase mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. We may also pool FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed mortgage loans which back securities guaranteed by GNMA. The agreements under which we sell mortgage loans and the insurance or guaranty agreements with the FHA and VA contain various representations and warranties regarding the origination and characteristics of the mortgage loans. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer for credit losses incurred on loans in the event of a breach of contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied within a period (usually 90 days or less) after we receive notice of the breach. We establish a mortgage repurchase liability related to the various representations and warranties that reflect management s estimate of losses for loans which we have a repurchase obligation. Our mortgage repurchase liability represents management s best estimate of the probable loss that we may expect to incur for the representations and warranties in the contractual provisions of our sales of mortgage loans. Because the level of mortgage loan repurchase losses depends upon economic factors, investor demand strategies and other external conditions that may change over the life of the underlying loans, the level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is difficult to estimate and requires considerable management judgment. As a result of the uncertainty in the various estimates underlying the mortgage repurchase liability, there is a range of losses in excess of the recorded mortgage repurchase liability that are reasonably possible. The estimate of the range of possible loss for representations and warranties does not represent a probable loss, and is based on currently available information, significant judgment, and a number of assumptions that are subject to change. If economic conditions or the housing market worsen or future investor repurchase demand and our success at appealing repurchase requests differ from past experience, we could have increased repurchase obligations and increased loss severity on repurchases, requiring significant additions to the repurchase liability. 
  Additionally, for residential mortgage loans that we originate, borrowers may allege that the origination of the loans did not comply with applicable laws or regulations in one or more respects and assert such violation as an affirmative defense to payment or to the exercise by us of our remedies, including foreclosure proceedings, or in an action seeking statutory and other damages in connection with such violation. If we are not successful in demonstrating that the loans in dispute were originated in accordance with applicable statutes and regulations, we could become subject to monetary damages and other civil penalties, including the loss of certain contractual payments or the inability to exercise certain remedies under the loans. 
  For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management   Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  section in this Report.  
    
  We may be terminated as a servicer or master servicer, be required to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse investors for credit losses on a mortgage  

Risk Factors   (continued) 

loan, or incur costs, liabilities, fines and other sanctions     if we fail to satisfy our servicing obligations, including our obligations with respect to mortgage loan foreclosure actions and servicing flood zone properties.    We act as servicer and/or master servicer for mortgage loans included in securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. As a servicer or master servicer for those loans we have certain contractual obligations to the securitization trusts, investors or other third parties, including, in our capacity as a servicer, foreclosing on defaulted mortgage loans or, to the extent consistent with the applicable securitization or other investor agreement, considering alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or short sales and, in our capacity as a master servicer, overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the servicer. In addition, we may have certain servicing obligations for properties that fall within a flood zone. If we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security holders, causing us to lose servicing income. In addition, we may be required to indemnify the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith or gross negligence. Furthermore, if any of the companies that insure the mortgage loans in our servicing portfolio experience financial difficulties or credit downgrades, we may incur additional costs to obtain replacement insurance coverage with another provider, possibly at a higher cost than the coverage we would replace. For certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. If we have increased repurchase obligations because of claims that we did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have a significant reduction to net servicing income within mortgage banking noninterest income. 
  We may incur costs if we are required to, or if we elect to,  re-execute or re-file documents or take other action in our capacity as a servicer in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. We may incur litigation costs if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. If a court were to overturn a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process, we may have liability to the borrower and/or to any title insurer of the property sold in foreclosure if the required process was not followed. We may also incur costs if we are unable to meet certain foreclosure timelines as prescribed by GSE or other government servicing guidelines. These costs and liabilities may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us, particularly to the extent they relate to securitized mortgage loans. In addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action are missing or defective, we could be obligated to cure the defect or repurchase the loan. We may incur liability to securitization investors relating to delays or deficiencies in our processing of mortgage assignments or other documents necessary to comply with state law governing foreclosures. The fair value of our MSRs may be negatively affected to the extent our servicing costs increase because of higher foreclosure or other servicing related costs. We may be subject to fines and other sanctions imposed by federal or state regulators as a result of actual or perceived deficiencies in our mortgage servicing practices, including with respect to our foreclosure practices or  

our servicing of flood zone properties. Any of these actions may harm our reputation, negatively affect our residential mortgage origination or servicing business, or result in material fines, penalties, equitable remedies, or other enforcement actions.  
  For more information, refer to the  Risk Management   Credit Risk Management   Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses  and    Risks Relating to Servicing Activities,  and  Critical Accounting Policies   Valuation of Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights  sections and Note 14 (Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral, and Other Commitments) and Note 15 (Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in this Report.  
    
  OPERATIONAL AND LEGAL RISK 
    
  A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems, controls or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses.    As a large financial institution that serves over 70 million customers through more than 8,300 locations, 13,000 ATMs, the internet, mobile banking and other distribution channels across the U.S. and internationally, we depend on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. As our customer base and locations have expanded throughout the U.S. and internationally, and as customer, public, legislative and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems, controls and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting, data processing systems or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly, become insufficient based on our evolving business needs, or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; degradation or loss of internet or website availability; climate change related impacts and natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornados, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber attacks. Furthermore, enhancements and upgrades to our infrastructure or operating systems may be time-consuming, entail significant costs, and create risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. Due to the complexity and interconnectedness of our systems, the process of enhancing our infrastructure and operating systems, including their security measures, can itself create a risk of system disruptions and security issues. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers. 
  Information security risks for large financial institutions such as Wells Fargo have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties, including foreign state-sponsored parties.  

Those parties also may attempt to misrepresent personal or financial information to obtain loans or other financial products from us or attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, or other users of our systems to disclose confidential information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. Our banking, brokerage, investment advisory, and capital markets businesses rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, hardware, and networks to conduct their operations. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smartphones, tablet PC s, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Although we believe we have robust information security procedures and controls, our technologies, systems, networks, and our customers  devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of Wells Fargo s or our customers  confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt Wells Fargo s or its customers  or other third parties  business operations. For example, various retailers have reported they were victims of cyber attacks in which large amounts of their customers  data, including debit and credit card information, was obtained. In these situations, we generally incur costs to replace compromised cards and address fraudulent transaction activity affecting our customers. 
  Third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational risk and information security risk to us, including from cyber attacks, information breaches or loss, breakdowns, disruptions or failures of their own systems or infrastructure, or any deficiencies in the performance of their responsibilities. Furthermore, as a result of financial institutions and technology systems becoming more interconnected and complex, any operational or information security incident at a third party may increase the risk of loss or material impact to us or the financial industry as a whole. Moreover, because we rely on third parties to provide services to us and facilitate certain of our business activities, we face increased operational risk. If third parties we rely on do not adequately or appropriately provide their services or perform their responsibilities, or we do not effectively manage or oversee these third party relationships, we may suffer material harm, including business disruptions, losses or costs to remediate any of the deficiencies, reputational damage, legal or regulatory proceedings, or other adverse consequences. 
  To date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, but there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, the prominent size and scale of Wells Fargo and its role in the financial services industry, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, our expanded geographic footprint and international presence, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, and the current global economic and political environment. For example, Wells Fargo and other financial institutions continue to be the target of various evolving and adaptive cyber attacks, including malware and denial-of-service, as part of an effort to disrupt the operations of financial institutions, potentially test their  

cybersecurity capabilities, or obtain confidential, proprietary or other information. Cyber attacks have also focused on targeting the infrastructure of the internet, causing the widespread unavailability of websites and degrading website performance. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and systems designed to protect our networks, computers, software and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for Wells Fargo. We are also proactively involved in industry cybersecurity efforts and working with other parties, including our third-party service providers and governmental agencies, to continue to enhance defenses and improve resiliency to cybersecurity threats. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities or incidents. 
  Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure, controls or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, cyber attacks on us or third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, financial losses, the inability of our customers to transact business with us, violations of applicable privacy and other laws, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, litigation exposure, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. 
    
  Our framework for managing risks may not be fully effective in mitigating risk and loss to us.    Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated, identified or managed. Our risk management framework is also dependent on ensuring that effective operational controls and a sound culture exist throughout the Company. The inability to develop effective operational controls or to foster the appropriate culture in each of our lines of business could adversely impact the effectiveness of our risk management framework  .   Similarly, if we are unable to effectively manage our business or operations, we may be exposed to increased risks or unexpected losses. We are also exposed to risks if we do not accurately or completely execute a process or transaction, whether due to human error or otherwise. In certain instances, we rely on models to measure, monitor and predict risks, such as market and interest rate risks, as well as to help inform business decisions; however, there is no assurance that these models will appropriately capture all relevant risks or accurately predict future events or exposures. In addition, we rely on data to aggregate and assess our various risk exposures and business activities, and any issues with the quality or effectiveness of our data aggregation and validation procedures could result in ineffective risk management practices or business decisions or inaccurate regulatory or other risk reporting. The recent financial and credit crisis and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks, and our regulators remain  

Risk Factors   (continued) 

focused on ensuring that financial institutions build and maintain robust risk management policies and practices. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. 
    
  Risks related to sales practices and other instances where customers may have experienced financial harm.    Various government entities and offices have undertaken formal or informal inquiries, investigations or examinations arising out of certain sales practices of the Company that were the subject of settlements with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of the Los Angeles City Attorney announced by the Company on September 8, 2016. In addition to imposing monetary penalties and other sanctions, regulatory authorities may require admissions of wrongdoing and compliance with other conditions in connection with such matters, which can lead to restrictions on our ability to engage in certain business activities or offer certain products or services, limitations on our ability to access capital markets, limitations on capital distributions, the loss of customers, and/or other direct and indirect adverse consequences. A number of lawsuits have also been filed by  non-governmental parties seeking damages or other remedies related to these sales practices. The ultimate resolution of any of these pending legal proceedings or government investigations, depending on the sanctions and remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may also incur additional costs and expenses in order to address and defend these pending legal proceedings and government investigations, and we may have increased compliance and other costs related to these matters. Furthermore, negative publicity or public opinion resulting from these matters may increase the risk of reputational harm to our business, which can impact our ability to keep and attract customers, affect our ability to attract and retain qualified team members, result in the loss of revenue, or have other material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the ultimate results and conclusions of our company-wide review of sales practices issues are still pending and could lead to an increase in the identified number of potentially impacted customers, additional legal or regulatory proceedings, compliance and other costs, reputational damage, the identification of issues in our practices or methodologies that were used to identify, prevent or remediate sales practices related matters, the loss of additional team members, or further changes in policies and procedures that may impact our business. 
  Furthermore, our priority of rebuilding trust has included an ongoing effort to identify other areas or instances where customers may have experienced financial harm. For example, as we centralize operations in our automobile lending business and tighten controls and oversight of third-party risk management, we have identified certain issues related to historical practices concerning the origination, servicing, and/or collection of consumer automobile loans, including related insurance products. The identification of such other areas or instances where customers may have experienced financial harm could lead to, and in some cases has already resulted in, additional remediation costs, loss of revenue or customers, legal or regulatory proceedings, compliance and other costs, reputational damage, or other adverse consequences. 
  For more information, refer to the  Overview   Sales Practices Matters  and    Additional Efforts to Rebuild Trust   

sections and Note 15 (Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
    
  We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations, or from any failure to meet regulatory standards or expectations.    We maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, we are subject to heightened compliance and regulatory oversight and expectations, particularly due to the evolving and increasing regulatory landscape we operate in. In addition, a single event or issue may give rise to numerous and overlapping investigations and proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies in the U.S. or by multiple regulators and other governmental entities in different jurisdictions. Also, the laws and regulations in jurisdictions in which we operate may be different or even conflict with each other, such as differences between U.S. federal and state law or differences between U.S. and foreign laws as to the products and services we may offer or other business activities we may engage in, which can lead to compliance difficulties or issues. Furthermore, many legal and regulatory regimes require us to report transactions and other information to regulators and other governmental authorities, self-regulatory organizations, exchanges, clearing houses and customers. We are also required to withhold funds and make various tax-related payments, relating to our own tax obligations and those of our customers. We may be subject to fines, penalties, restrictions on our business, or other negative consequences if we do not timely, completely, or accurately provide regulatory reports, customer notices or disclosures, or make tax-related withholdings or payments, on behalf of ourselves or our customers. Moreover, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there was in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. For example, we are subject to regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose penalties or restrictions on certain activities for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. Any violation of these or other applicable laws or regulatory requirements, even if inadvertent or unintentional, or any failure to meet regulatory standards or expectations could result in fees, penalties, restrictions on our ability to engage in certain business activities, reputational harm, loss of customers or other negative consequences. 
    
  Negative publicity, including as a result of our actual or alleged conduct or public opinion of the financial services industry generally, could damage our reputation and business.    Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business and has increased substantially because of the financial crisis, our size and profile in the financial services industry, and sales practices related matters and other instances where customers may have experienced financial harm. The reputation of the financial services industry in general has been damaged as a result of the financial crisis and other matters affecting the financial services industry, and negative public opinion about the financial services industry generally or Wells Fargo specifically could adversely affect our ability to keep  

and attract customers. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including sales practices; mortgage, automobile or other consumer lending practices; servicing and foreclosure activities; management of client accounts or investments; lending, investing or other business relationships; corporate governance; regulatory compliance; risk management; and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community or other organizations in response to that conduct. Although we have policies and procedures in place intended to detect and prevent conduct by team members and third party service providers that could potentially harm customers or our reputation, there is no assurance that such policies and procedures will be fully effective in preventing such conduct. Furthermore, our actual or perceived failure to address or prevent any such conduct or otherwise to effectively manage our business or operations could result in significant reputational harm. In addition, because we conduct most of our businesses under the  Wells Fargo  brand, negative public opinion about one business also could affect our other businesses. The proliferation of social media websites utilized by Wells Fargo and other third parties, as well as the personal use of social media by our team members and others, including personal blogs and social network profiles, also may increase the risk that negative, inappropriate or unauthorized information may be posted or released publicly that could harm our reputation or have other negative consequences, including as a result of our team members interacting with our customers in an unauthorized manner in various social media outlets. 
  Wells Fargo and other financial institutions have been targeted from time to time by protests and demonstrations, which have included disrupting the operation of our retail banking locations and have resulted in negative public commentary about financial institutions, including the fees charged for various products and services. There can be no assurance that continued protests or negative publicity for the Company specifically or large financial institutions generally will not harm our reputation and adversely affect our business and financial results. 
    
  Risks related to legal actions.    Wells Fargo and some of its subsidiaries are involved in judicial, regulatory, arbitration, and other proceedings or investigations concerning matters arising from the conduct of our business activities. Although we believe we have a meritorious defense in all significant legal actions pending against us, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome. We establish accruals for legal actions when potential losses associated with the actions become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. We may still incur costs for a legal action even if we have not established an accrual. In addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal action may be substantially higher than any amounts accrued for that action. The ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding or investigation, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 
  As noted above, we are subject to heightened regulatory oversight and scrutiny, which may lead to regulatory investigations, proceedings or enforcement actions. In addition to imposing monetary penalties and other sanctions, regulatory authorities may require criminal pleas or other admissions of wrongdoing and compliance with other conditions in connection with settling such matters, which can lead to reputational harm, loss of customers, restrictions on the ability to access capital markets, limitations on capital distributions, the inability to  

engage in certain business activities or offer certain products or services, and/or other direct and indirect adverse effects.  
  For more information, refer to Note 15 (Legal Actions) to Financial Statements in this Report. 
    
  RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY S COMPETITIVE OPERATING ENVIRONMENT 
    
  We face significant and increasing competition in the rapidly evolving financial services industry.        We compete with other financial institutions in a highly competitive industry that is undergoing significant changes as a result of financial regulatory reform, technological advances, increased public scrutiny stemming from the financial crisis and continued challenging economic conditions. Our success depends on our ability to develop and maintain deep and enduring relationships with our customers based on the quality of our customer service, the wide variety of products and services that we can offer our customers and the ability of those products and services to satisfy our customers  needs, the pricing of our products and services, the extensive distribution channels available for our customers, our innovation, and our reputation. Continued or increased competition in any one or all of these areas may negatively affect our customer relationships, market share and results of operations and/or cause us to increase our capital investment in our businesses in order to remain competitive. In addition, our ability to reposition or reprice our products and services from time to time may be limited and could be influenced significantly by the current economic, regulatory and political environment for large financial institutions as well as by the actions of our competitors. Furthermore, any changes in the types of products and services that we offer our customers and/or the pricing for those products and services could result in a loss of customer relationships and market share and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 
  Continued technological advances and the growth of     e-commerce have made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally were banking products, and for financial institutions and other companies to provide electronic and internet-based financial solutions, including electronic securities trading, lending and payment solutions. We may not respond effectively to these and other competitive threats from existing and new competitors and may be forced to sell products at lower prices, increase our investment in our business to modify or adapt our existing products and services, and/or develop new products and services to respond to our customers  needs. To the extent we are not successful in developing and introducing new products and services or responding or adapting to the competitive landscape or to changes in customer preferences, we may lose customer relationships and our revenue growth and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 
    
  Our ability to attract and retain qualified team members is critical to the success of our business and failure to do so could adversely affect our business performance, competitive position and future prospects.    The success of Wells Fargo is heavily dependent on the talents and efforts of our team members, including our senior leaders, and in many areas of our business, including commercial banking, brokerage, investment advisory, capital markets, risk management and technology, the competition for highly qualified personnel is intense. We also seek to retain a pipeline of team members to provide continuity of succession for our senior leadership positions. In order to attract and retain  

Risk Factors   (continued) 

highly qualified team members, we must provide competitive compensation. As a large financial institution and additionally to the extent we remain subject to consent orders we may be subject to limitations on compensation by our regulators that may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain these qualified team members, especially if some of our competitors may not be subject to these same compensation limitations. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified team members, including successors for senior leadership positions, our business performance, competitive position and future prospects may be adversely affected. 
    
  RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
    
  Changes in accounting policies or accounting standards, and changes in how accounting standards are interpreted or applied, could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition.    Our accounting policies are fundamental to determining and understanding our financial results and condition. As described below, some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Any changes in our accounting policies could materially affect our financial statements. 
  From time to time the FASB and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. For example, Accounting Standards Update 2016-13 -   Financial Instruments-Credit Losses   (Topic 326), which becomes effective in first quarter 2020, will replace the current  incurred loss  model for the allowance for credit losses with an  expected loss  model referred to as the Current Expected Credit Loss model, or CECL. CECL could materially affect how we determine our allowance and report our financial results and condition.  
  In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and our outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. We may be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively or apply an existing standard differently, also retroactively, in each case potentially resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. 
  For more information, refer to the  Current Accounting Developments  section in this Report. 
    
  Our financial statements are based in part on assumptions and estimates which, if wrong, could cause unexpected losses in the future, and our financial statements depend on our internal controls over financial reporting.    Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves for mortgage repurchases, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, among other items. Several of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. For a description of these policies, refer  

to the  Critical Accounting Policies  section in this Report. If assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses. 
  Certain of our financial instruments, including trading assets, derivative assets and liabilities, investment securities, certain loans, MSRs, private equity investments, structured notes and certain repurchase and resale agreements, among other items, require a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our financial statements. Where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on management judgment, and there is no assurance that our models will capture or appropriately reflect all relevant inputs required to accurately determine fair value. Some of these and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable price levels, making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on significant estimation and judgment. In addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain loans and securities may make it more difficult to value certain balance sheet items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to further change or adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings. 
  The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) requires our management to evaluate the Company s disclosure controls and procedures and its internal control over financial reporting and requires our auditors to issue a report on our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to disclose, in our annual report on Form 10-K, the existence of any  material weaknesses  in our internal controls. We cannot assure that we will not identify one or more material weaknesses as of the end of any given quarter or year, nor can we predict the effect on our stock price of disclosure of a material weakness. Sarbanes-Oxley also limits the types of non-audit services our outside auditors may provide to us in order to preserve their independence from us. If our auditors were found not to be  independent  of us under SEC rules, we could be required to engage new auditors and re-file financial statements and audit reports with the SEC. We could be out of compliance with SEC rules until new financial statements and audit reports were filed, limiting our ability to raise capital and resulting in other adverse consequences. 
    
  RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS 
    
  Acquisitions may require regulatory approvals and conditions, and we may experience difficulty integrating any acquired company or business.    We regularly explore opportunities to expand our products, services and assets by acquiring companies or businesses in the financial services industry. We generally must receive federal regulatory approvals before we can acquire a bank, bank holding company or certain other financial services businesses depending on the size of the financial services business to be acquired. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and concerns regarding the large size of financial institutions such as Wells Fargo, the regulatory process for approving acquisitions has become more complex and regulatory approvals may be more difficult to obtain. We cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. We might be required to sell banks, branches and/or business units or assets or issue additional equity as a condition to receiving regulatory approval for an acquisition. When we do announce an acquisition, our stock price may fall depending on the size of the acquisition, the type of business to be acquired, the purchase price, and the potential dilution to existing stockholders or our  

earnings per share if we issue common stock in connection with the acquisition. 
  Difficulty in integrating an acquired company or business may cause us not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key team members, an increase in our compliance costs or risk profile, disruption of our business or the acquired business, or otherwise harm our ability to retain customers and team members or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Time and resources spent on integration may also impair our ability to grow our existing businesses. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. Many of  

the foregoing risks may be increased if the acquired company or business operates internationally or in a geographic location where we do not already have significant business operations and/or team members. 
    
  *   *   * 
    
  Any factor described in this Report or in any of our other SEC filings could by itself, or together with other factors, adversely affect our financial results and condition. Refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC in   2018   for material changes to the above discussion of risk factors. There are factors not discussed above or elsewhere in this Report that could adversely affect our financial results and condition. 

Controls and Procedures  

Disclosure Controls and Procedures 

The Company s management evaluated the effectiveness, as of   December 31, 2017  , of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures. The Company s chief executive officer and chief financial officer participated in the evaluation. Based on this evaluation, the Company s chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of   December 31, 2017  . 

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Company s principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the Company s Board, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and includes those policies and procedures that: 
             
    pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of assets of the Company; 
                
    provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and 
                
    provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. No change occurred during any quarter in   2017   that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting. Management s report on internal control over financial reporting is set forth below and should be read with these limitations in mind.  

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  The Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company. Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2017  , using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in   Internal Control       Integrated Framework (2013)  . Based on this assessment, management concluded that as of   December 31, 2017  , the Company s internal control over financial reporting was effective. 
  KPMG LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the Company s financial statements included in this Annual Report, issued an audit report on the Company s internal control over financial reporting. KPMG s audit report appears on the following page. 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  The Stockholders and Board of Directors 
  Wells Fargo   Company: 
    
  Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
    
  We have audited Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries  (the Company) internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2017  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control       Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2017  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control       Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
    
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ( PCAOB ), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended   December 31, 2017  , and the related notes (collectively, the  consolidated financial statements ), and our report dated   March 1, 2018  , expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. 
    
  Basis for Opinion 
    
  The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
    
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
    
  Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
    
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
    
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

/s/ KPMG LLP                          
    
  San Francisco, California 
  March 1, 2018 

Financial Statements 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 

(1) 
    Parenthetical amounts represent assets and liabilities for which we have elected the fair value option. 
              (2) 
    Our consolidated assets at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , include the following assets of certain variable interest entities (VIEs) that can only be used to settle the liabilities of those VIEs: Cash and due from banks,   $116 million   and   $168 million  ; Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements and other short-term investments,   $376 million   and   $74 million  ; Trading assets,   $294 million   and   $130 million  ; Investment securities,   $0 million   and   $0 million  ; Net loans,   $12.5 billion   and   $12.6 billion  ; Derivative assets,   $0 million   and   $1 million  ; Other assets,   $349 million   and   $452 million  ; and Total assets,   $13.6 billion   and   $13.4 billion  , respectively. 
              (3) 
    Our consolidated liabilities at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , include the following VIE liabilities for which the VIE creditors do not have recourse to Wells Fargo: Derivative liabilities,   $5 million   and $  33 million  ; Accrued expenses and other liabilities,   $132 million   and   $107 million  ; Long-term debt,   $1.5 billion   and   $3.7 billion  ; and Total liabilities,   $1.6 billion   and   $3.8 billion  , respectively. 
        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 

(1) 
    For the year ended   December 31, 2015  , includes   $500 million   related to a private forward repurchase transaction entered into in fourth quarter   2015   that settled in first quarter   2016   for   9.2 million   shares of common stock. For the year ended   December 31, 2016  , includes   $750 million   related to a private forward repurchase transaction that settled in first quarter   2017   for   14.7 million   shares of common stock. See Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) for additional information. 
              (2) 
    Effective January 1, 2016, we adopted changes in consolidation accounting pursuant to Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2015-02:   Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis  . Accordingly, we recorded a   $121 million   net increase to beginning noncontrolling interests as a cumulative-effect adjustment. 
      The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 
    
  (continued on following pages) 

(continued from previous pages) 

(1) 
    Financial information has been revised to reflect the impact of the adoption in fourth quarter 2017 of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2017-12       Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815):   Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities  . See Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) for more information. 
              (2) 
    Effective January 1, 2017, we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2016-09 (  Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting).   Accordingly, tax benefit from stock incentive compensation is reported in income tax expense in the consolidated statement of income. 
     The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 

(1) 
    Prior periods have been revised to conform to the current period presentation. 
              (2) 
    Prior periods have been revised to reflect classification changes due to entity restructuring activities. 
     The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. See Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) for noncash activities. 

Notes to Financial Statements 

See the Glossary of Acronyms at the end of this Report for terms used throughout the Financial Statements and related Notes. 
               Note 1:    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 

Wells Fargo   Company is a diversified financial services company. We provide banking, trust and investments, mortgage banking, investment banking, retail banking, brokerage, and consumer and commercial finance through banking locations, the internet and other distribution channels to consumers, businesses and institutions in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and in foreign countries. When we refer to  Wells Fargo,   the Company,   we,   our  or  us,  we mean Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries (consolidated). Wells Fargo   Company (the Parent) is a financial holding company and a bank holding company. We also hold a majority interest in a real estate investment trust, which has publicly traded preferred stock outstanding. 
  Our accounting and reporting policies conform with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and practices in the financial services industry. To prepare the financial statements in conformity with GAAP, management must make estimates based on assumptions about future economic and market conditions (for example, unemployment, market liquidity, real estate prices, etc.) that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, income and expenses during the reporting period and the related disclosures. Although our estimates contemplate current conditions and how we expect them to change in the future, it is reasonably possible that actual conditions could be worse than anticipated in those estimates, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Management has made significant estimates in several areas, including: 
             
    allowance for credit losses (Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses));  
                
    valuations of residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) (Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities) and Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities)) and financial instruments (Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities)); 
                
    income taxes (Note 22 (Income Taxes)); and 
                
    liabilities for contingent litigation losses (Note 15 (Legal Actions)). 
       
  Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
    
  Accounting Standards Adopted in   2017    
  In   2017  , we adopted the following new accounting guidance: 
             
    Accounting Standards Update (ASU or Update) 2017-12     Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities; 
                
    ASU 2016-09     Compensation   Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting; 
                
    ASU 2016-07     Investments       Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Simplifying the Transition to the Equity Method of Accounting; 
                 
    ASU 2016-05     Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Effect of Derivative Contract Novations on Existing Hedge Accounting Relationships. 
       
  ASU 2017-12   provides targeted improvements to the hedge accounting model intended to facilitate financial reporting that more closely reflects an entity s risk management activities and to simplify application of hedge accounting. Changes under the    

new guidance include expansion of the types of risk management strategies eligible for hedge accounting, easing the documentation and effectiveness assessment requirements, changing how ineffectiveness is measured, and changing the presentation and disclosure requirements for hedge accounting activities.  
  We early adopted ASU 2017-12 in fourth quarter 2017. Our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, include a cumulative-effect adjustment to opening retained earnings and adjustments to our 2017 earnings to reflect application of the new guidance effective January 1, 2017. The new guidance significantly reduces but does not eliminate interest-rate related hedge ineffectiveness and mitigates certain components of foreign currency related hedge ineffectiveness. In particular, we continued to experience hedge ineffectiveness volatility related to certain hedges of foreign-currency denominated debt liabilities. The adjustment as of January 1, 2017, reduced retained earnings by   $381 million   and increased other comprehensive income by   $168 million  . The effect of adoption on previously reported year-to-date results through September 30, 2017, increased net income by   $169 million   (  $242 million   pre-tax) and decreased other comprehensive income by   $163 million  . 
    
  ASU 2016-09   simplifies the accounting for share-based payment awards issued to employees. We have income tax effects based on changes in our stock price from the grant date to the vesting date of the employee stock compensation. The Update requires these income tax effects to be recognized in the statement of income within income tax expense instead of within additional paid-in capital. In addition, the Update requires changes to the Statement of Cash Flows including the classification between the operating and financing section for tax activity related to employee stock compensation, which we adopted retrospectively. We recorded excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies within income tax expense in the statement of income in first quarter 2017, on a prospective basis. 
    
  ASU 2016-07   eliminates the requirement for companies to retroactively apply the equity method of accounting for investments when increases in ownership interests or degree of influence result in the adoption of the equity method. Under the guidance, the equity method should be applied prospectively in the period in which the ownership changes occur. We adopted this change in first quarter 2017. The Update has been applied on a prospective basis and did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
    
  ASU 2016-06   clarifies the criteria entities should use when evaluating whether embedded contingent put and call options in debt instruments should be separated from the debt instrument and accounted for separately as derivatives. The Update clarifies that companies should not consider whether the event that triggers the ability to exercise put or call options is related to interest rates or credit risk. We adopted this change in first quarter 2017. The Update did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
    
  ASU 2016-05   clarifies that a change in the counterparty to a derivative instrument that has been designated as an accounting hedge does not require the hedging relationship to be  

Note 1:    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   (continued) 

dedesignated as long as all other hedge accounting criteria continue to be met. We adopted the guidance in first quarter 2017. The Update did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
    
  Accounting Standards with Retrospective Application 
  The following accounting pronouncements have been issued by the FASB but are not yet effective: 
      
  ASU 2016-18   requires that amounts described as restricted cash and cash equivalents be included with cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. In addition, we will be required to disclose information in our footnotes about the nature of the restriction on cash and cash equivalents. The Update is effective for us in first quarter 2018 with retrospective application. The Update did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
    
  ASU 2016-15   addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice for reporting in the Statement of Cash Flows. The Update is effective for us in first quarter 2018 with retrospective application. The Update did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
    
  Consolidation 
  Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Parent and our subsidiaries in which we have a controlling interest.  
  We are also a variable interest holder in certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or where the entity does not have enough equity at risk to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties (referred to as variable interest entities (VIEs)). Our variable interest arises from contractual, ownership or other monetary interests in the entity, which change with fluctuations in the fair value of the entity s net assets. We consolidate a VIE if we are the primary beneficiary. We are the primary beneficiary if we have a controlling financial interest, which includes both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE and a variable interest that potentially could be significant to the VIE. To determine whether or not a variable interest we hold could potentially be significant to the VIE, we consider both qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the nature, size and form of our involvement with the VIE. We assess whether or not we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE on an ongoing basis. 
   Significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. When we have significant influence over operating and financing decisions for a company but do not own a majority of the voting equity interests, we account for the investment using the equity method of accounting, which requires us to recognize our proportionate share of the company s earnings. If we do not have significant influence, we recognize the equity investment at cost except for (1) marketable equity securities, which we recognize at fair value with changes in fair value included in other comprehensive income (OCI), and (2) nonmarketable equity investments for which we have elected the fair value option. Investments accounted for under the equity or cost method are included in other assets. 

Cash and Due From Banks 
  Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash items in transit, and amounts due from other depository institutions. 
    
  Trading Assets 
  Trading assets are predominantly securities, including corporate debt, U.S. government agency obligations and other securities   and certain loans held for market-making purposes to support the buying and selling demands of our customers  . Interest-only strips and other retained interests in securitizations that can be contractually prepaid or otherwise settled in a way that the holder would not recover substantially all of its recorded investment are classified as trading assets. Trading assets are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in net gains from trading activities. For securities and loans in trading assets, interest and dividend income are recorded in interest income.  
    
  Investments 
  Our investments include various debt and marketable equity securities and nonmarketable equity investments. We classify debt and marketable equity securities as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity securities based on our intent to hold to maturity. Our nonmarketable equity investments are reported in other assets.  
    
  AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES      Debt securities that we might not hold until maturity and marketable equity securities are classified as available-for-sale securities and reported at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses, after applicable income taxes, are reported in cumulative OCI. 
  We conduct other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) analysis on a quarterly basis or more often if a potential loss-triggering event occurs. The initial indicator of OTTI for both debt and equity securities is a decline in fair value below the amount recorded for an investment and the severity and duration of the decline. 
  For a debt security for which there has been a decline in the fair value below amortized cost basis, we recognize OTTI if we (1) have the intent to sell the security, (2) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, or (3) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. 
  Estimating recovery of the amortized cost basis of a debt security is based upon an assessment of the cash flows expected to be collected. If the present value of cash flows expected to be collected, discounted at the security s effective yield, is less than amortized cost, OTTI is considered to have occurred. In performing an assessment of the cash flows expected to be collected, we consider all relevant information including: 
             
    the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than the amortized cost basis; 
                
    the historical and implied volatility of the fair value of the security; 
                
    the cause of the price decline, such as the general level of interest rates or adverse conditions specifically related to the security, an industry or a geographic area; 
                
    the issuer s financial condition, near-term prospects and ability to service the debt; 
                
    the payment structure of the debt security and the likelihood of the issuer being able to make payments that increase in the future; 
                
    for asset-backed securities, the credit performance of the underlying collateral, including delinquency rates, level of non-performing assets, cumulative losses to date, collateral  

value and the remaining credit enhancement compared with expected credit losses; 
             
    any change in rating agencies  credit ratings at evaluation date from acquisition date and any likely imminent action; 
                
    independent analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings and other independent market data; and 
                
    recoveries or additional declines in fair value subsequent to the balance sheet date. 
       
  If we intend to sell the security, or if it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the security before recovery of amortized cost basis, an OTTI write-down is recognized in earnings equal to the entire difference between the amortized cost basis and fair value of the security. For debt securities that are considered other-than-temporarily impaired that we do not intend to sell or it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell before recovery, the OTTI write-down is separated into an amount representing the credit loss, which is recognized in earnings, and the amount related to all other factors, which is recognized in OCI. The measurement of the credit loss component is equal to the difference between the debt security s amortized cost basis and the present value of its expected future cash flows discounted at the security s effective yield. The remaining difference between the security s fair value and the present value of expected future cash flows is due to factors that are not credit-related and, therefore, is recognized in OCI. We believe that we will fully collect the carrying value of securities on which we have recorded a non-credit-related impairment in OCI. 
  We hold investments in perpetual preferred securities (PPS) that are structured in equity form but have many of the characteristics of debt instruments, including periodic cash flows in the form of dividends, call features, ratings that are similar to debt securities and pricing like long-term callable bonds. 
  Because of the hybrid nature of these securities, we evaluate PPS for OTTI using a model similar to the model we use for debt securities as described above. Among the factors we consider in our evaluation of PPS are whether there is any evidence of deterioration in the credit of the issuer as indicated by a decline in cash flows or a rating agency downgrade to below investment grade and the estimated recovery period. OTTI write-downs of PPS are recognized in earnings equal to the difference between the cost basis and fair value of the security. Based upon the factors considered in our OTTI evaluation, we believe our investments in PPS currently rated investment grade will be fully realized and, accordingly, have not recognized OTTI on such securities. 
  For marketable equity securities other than PPS, OTTI evaluations focus on whether evidence exists that supports recovery of the unrealized loss within a timeframe consistent with temporary impairment. This evaluation considers the severity of and length of time fair value is below cost, our intent and ability to hold the security until forecasted recovery of the fair value of the security, and the investee s financial condition, capital strength, and near-term prospects. 
  We recognize realized gains and losses on the sale of investment securities in noninterest income using the specific identification method. 
  Unamortized premiums and discounts are recognized in interest income over the contractual life of the security using the interest method. As principal repayments are received on securities (i.e., primarily mortgage-backed securities (MBS)) a proportionate amount of the related premium or discount is recognized in income so that the effective interest rate on the remaining portion of the security continues unchanged. 

HELD-TO-MATURITY SECURITIES      Debt securities for which the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are reported at historical cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts. We recognize OTTI when there is a decline in fair value and we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. The amortized cost is written-down to fair value with the credit loss component recorded to earnings and the remaining component recognized in OCI. The OTTI assessment related to whether we expect recovery of the amortized cost basis and determination of any credit loss component recognized in earnings for held-to-maturity securities is the same as described for available-for-sale securities. Security transfers to the held-to-maturity classification are recorded at fair value. Unrealized gains or losses from the transfer of available-for-sale securities continue to be reported in cumulative OCI and are amortized into earnings over the remaining life of the security using the effective interest method. 
    
  NONMARKETABLE EQUITY INVESTMENTS    Nonmarketable equity investments include low income housing tax credit investments, equity securities that are not publicly traded and securities acquired for various purposes, such as to meet regulatory requirements (for example, Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) stock). We have elected the fair value option for some of these investments with the remainder of these investments accounted for under the cost or equity method, which we review at least quarterly for possible OTTI. Our review typically includes an analysis of the facts and circumstances of each investment, the expectations for the investment s cash flows and capital needs, the viability of its business model and our exit strategy. We reduce the asset value when we consider declines in value to be other than temporary. We recognize the estimated loss as a loss from equity investments in noninterest income.  
    
  Securities Purchased and Sold Agreements 
  Securities purchased under resale agreements and securities sold under repurchase agreements are accounted for as collateralized financing transactions and are recorded at the acquisition or sale price plus accrued interest. We monitor the fair value of securities purchased and sold and obtain collateral from or return it to counterparties when appropriate. These financing transactions do not create material credit risk given the collateral provided and the related monitoring process. 
    
  Mortgages and Loans Held for Sale 
  Mortgages held for sale (MHFS) include commercial and residential mortgages originated for sale and securitization in the secondary market, which is our principal market, or for sale as whole loans. We have elected the fair value option for substantially all residential MHFS (see Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities)). The remaining residential MHFS are held at the lower of cost or fair value (LOCOM) and are valued on an aggregate portfolio basis. Commercial MHFS are held at LOCOM and are valued on an individual loan basis. 
  Loans held for sale (LHFS) are carried at LOCOM. Generally, consumer loans are valued on an aggregate portfolio basis, and commercial loans are valued on an individual loan basis. 
  Gains and losses on MHFS are recorded in mortgage banking noninterest income. Gains and losses on LHFS are recorded in other noninterest income. Direct loan origination costs and fees for MHFS and LHFS under the fair value option are recognized in income at origination. For MHFS and LHFS  

Note 1:    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   (continued) 

recorded at LOCOM, loan costs and fees are deferred at origination and are recognized in income at time of sale. Interest income on MHFS and LHFS is calculated based upon the note rate of the loan and is recorded in interest income. 
  Our lines of business are authorized to originate held-for-investment loans that meet or exceed established loan product profitability criteria, including minimum positive net interest margin spreads in excess of funding costs. When a determination is made at the time of commitment to originate loans as held for investment, it is our intent to hold these loans to maturity or for the  foreseeable future,  subject to periodic review under our management evaluation processes, including corporate asset/liability management. In determining the  foreseeable future  for loans, management considers (1) the current economic environment and market conditions, (2) our business strategy and current business plans, (3) the nature and type of the loan receivable, including its expected life, and (4) our current financial condition and liquidity demands. If subsequent changes, including changes in interest rates, significantly impact the ongoing profitability of certain loan products, we may subsequently change our intent to hold these loans, and we would take actions to sell such loans. Upon such management determination, we immediately transfer these loans to the MHFS or LHFS portfolio at LOCOM. 
    
  Loans 
  Loans are reported at their outstanding principal balances net of any unearned income, cumulative charge-offs, unamortized deferred fees and costs on originated loans and unamortized premiums or discounts on purchased loans. PCI loans are reported net of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments. See the  Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans  section in this Note for our accounting policy for PCI loans. 
  Unearned income, deferred fees and costs, and discounts and premiums are amortized to interest income over the contractual life of the loan using the interest method. Loan commitment fees are generally deferred and amortized into noninterest income on a straight-line basis over the commitment period. 
  We have certain private label and co-brand credit card loans through a program agreement that involves our active participation in the operating activity of the program with a third party. We share in the economic results of the loans subject to this agreement. We consider the program to be a collaborative arrangement and therefore report our share of revenue and losses on a net basis in interest income for loans, other noninterest income and provision for credit losses as applicable. Our net share of revenue from this activity represented less than   1%   of our total revenues for   2017  . 
  Loans also include direct financing leases that are recorded at the aggregate of minimum lease payments receivable plus the estimated residual value of the leased property, less unearned income. Leveraged leases, which are a form of direct financing leases, are recorded net of related non-recourse debt. Leasing income is recognized as a constant percentage of outstanding lease financing balances over the lease terms in interest income. 
    
  NONACCRUAL AND PAST DUE LOANS    We generally place loans on nonaccrual status when: 
             
    the full and timely collection of interest or principal becomes uncertain (generally based on an assessment of the borrower s financial condition and the adequacy of collateral, if any); 
                
    they are   90 days   (  120 days   with respect to real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages) past due for interest  

or principal, unless both well-secured and in the process of collection; 
             
    part of the principal balance has been charged off, except for credit card loans, which are generally not placed on nonaccrual status, but are generally fully charged off when the loan reaches 180 days past due;  
                
    for junior lien mortgages, we have evidence that the related first lien mortgage may be   120 days   past due or in the process of foreclosure regardless of the junior lien delinquency status; or 
                
    consumer real estate and automobile loans receive notification of bankruptcy, regardless of their delinquency status. 
       
  PCI loans are written down at acquisition to fair value using an estimate of cash flows deemed to be collectible and an accretable yield is established. Accordingly, such loans are not classified as nonaccrual because they continue to earn interest from accretable yield, independent of performance in accordance of their contractual terms, and we expect to fully collect the new carrying values of such loans (that is, the new cost basis arising out of purchase accounting). 
  When we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse the accrued unpaid interest receivable against interest income and suspend amortization of any net deferred fees. If the ultimate collectability of the recorded loan balance is in doubt on a nonaccrual loan, the cost recovery method is used and cash collected is applied to first reduce the carrying value of the loan. Otherwise, interest income may be recognized to the extent cash is received. Generally, we return a loan to accrual status when all delinquent interest and principal become current under the terms of the loan agreement and collectability of remaining principal and interest is no longer doubtful. 
  We typically re-underwrite modified loans at the time of a restructuring to determine if there is sufficient evidence of sustained repayment capacity based on the borrower s financial strength, including documented income, debt to income ratios and other factors. If the borrower has demonstrated performance under the previous terms and the underwriting process shows the capacity to continue to perform under the restructured terms, the loan will generally remain in accruing status. When a loan classified as a troubled debt restructuring (TDR) performs in accordance with its modified terms, the loan either continues to accrue interest (for performing loans) or will return to accrual status after the borrower demonstrates a sustained period of performance (generally six consecutive months of payments, or equivalent, inclusive of consecutive payments made prior to the modification). Loans will be placed on nonaccrual status and a corresponding charge-off is recorded if we believe it is probable that principal and interest contractually due under the modified terms of the agreement will not be collectible. 
  Our loans are considered past due when contractually required principal or interest payments have not been made on the due dates. 
    
  LOAN CHARGE-OFF POLICIES    For commercial loans, we generally fully charge off or charge down to net realizable value (fair value of collateral, less estimated costs to sell) for loans secured by collateral when: 
             
    management judges the loan to be uncollectible; 
                
    repayment is deemed to be protracted beyond reasonable time frames; 
                
    the loan has been classified as a loss by either our internal loan review process or our banking regulatory agencies; 

the customer has filed bankruptcy and the loss becomes evident owing to a lack of assets; or 
                
    the loan is   180 days   past due unless both well-secured and in the process of collection. 
       
  For consumer loans, we fully charge off or charge down to net realizable value when deemed uncollectible due to bankruptcy or other factors, or no later than reaching a defined number of days past due, as follows: 
             
    1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages   We generally charge down to net realizable value when the loan is   180 days   past due. 
                
    Automobile loans   We generally fully charge off when the loan is   120 days   past due. 
                
    Credit card loans   We generally fully charge off when the loan is   180 days   past due. 
                
    Unsecured loans (closed end)   We generally fully charge off when the loan is   120 days   past due. 
                
    Unsecured loans (open end)   We generally fully charge off when the loan is   180 days   past due. 
                
    Other secured loans   We generally fully or partially charge down to net realizable value when the loan is   120 days   past due. 
       
  IMPAIRED LOANS    We consider a loan to be impaired when, based on current information and events, we determine that we will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the loan contract, including scheduled interest payments. This evaluation is generally based on delinquency information, an assessment of the borrower s financial condition and the adequacy of collateral, if any. Our impaired loans predominantly include loans on nonaccrual status in the commercial portfolio segment and loans modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual status. 
  When we identify a loan as impaired, we generally measure the impairment, if any, based on the difference between the recorded investment in the loan (net of previous charge-offs, deferred loan fees or costs and unamortized premium or discount) and the present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the loan s effective interest rate. When the value of an impaired loan is calculated by discounting expected cash flows, interest income is recognized using the loan s effective interest rate over the remaining life of the loan. When collateral is the sole source of repayment for the impaired loan, rather than the borrower s income or other sources of repayment, we charge down to net realizable value. 
    
  TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS    In situations where, for economic or legal reasons related to a borrower s financial difficulties, we grant a concession for other than an insignificant period of time to the borrower that we would not otherwise consider, the related loan is classified as a TDR. These modified terms may include rate reductions, principal forgiveness, term extensions, payment forbearance and other actions intended to minimize our economic loss and to avoid foreclosure or repossession of the collateral, if applicable. For modifications where we forgive principal, the entire amount of such principal forgiveness is immediately charged off. Loans classified as TDRs, including loans in trial payment periods (trial modifications), are considered impaired loans. Other than resolutions such as foreclosures, sales and transfers to held-for-sale, we may remove loans held for investment from TDR classification, but only if they have been refinanced or restructured at market terms and qualify as a new loan. 

PURCHASED CREDIT-IMPAIRED LOANS      Loans acquired with evidence of credit deterioration since their origination and where it is probable that we will not collect all contractually required principal and interest payments are PCI loans. PCI loans are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition, and the historical allowance for credit losses related to these loans is not carried over. Fair value at date of acquisition is generally determined using a discounted cash flow method and any excess cash flow expected to be collected over the carrying value (estimated fair value at acquisition date) is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest income using an effective yield method over the remaining life of the loan, or pool of loans if aggregated based on common risk characteristics. The difference between contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition, considering the impact of prepayments, is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. Based on quarterly evaluations of remaining cash flows expected to be collected, expected decreases may result in recording a provision for loss and expected increases may result in a prospective yield adjustment after first reversing any allowance for losses related to the loan, or pool of loans. 
  Resolutions of loans may include sales of loans to third parties, receipt of payments in settlement with the borrower, or foreclosure of the collateral. For individual PCI loans, gains or losses on sales to third parties are included in other noninterest income, and gains or losses as a result of a settlement with the borrower are included in interest income. Our policy is to remove an individual loan from a pool based on comparing the amount received from its resolution with its contractual amount. Any difference between these amounts is absorbed by the nonaccretable difference for the entire pool,     which assumes that the amount received from resolution approximates pool performance expectations.     Any material change in remaining effective yield caused by this removal method is addressed by our quarterly cash flow evaluation process for each 
  pool.  
  Modified PCI loans are not removed from a pool even if those loans would otherwise be deemed TDRs. Modified PCI loans that are accounted for individually are considered TDRs and removed from PCI accounting if there has been a concession granted in excess of the original nonaccretable difference. We include these TDRs in our impaired loans. 
    
  FORECLOSED ASSETS    Foreclosed assets obtained through our lending activities primarily include real estate. Generally, loans have been written down to their net realizable value prior to foreclosure. Any further reduction to their net realizable value is recorded with a charge to the allowance for credit losses at foreclosure. We allow up to 90 days after foreclosure to finalize determination of net realizable value. Thereafter, changes in net realizable value are recorded to noninterest expense. The net realizable value of these assets is reviewed and updated periodically depending on the type of property. Certain government-guaranteed mortgage loans upon foreclosure are included in accounts receivable, not foreclosed assets. These receivables were loans predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA and are measured based on the balance expected to be recovered from the FHA or VA.  
    
  ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES (ACL)    The allowance for credit losses is management s estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments, at the balance sheet date. We have an established process to determine the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses that assesses the losses inherent in our portfolio and related  

Note 1:    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   (continued) 

unfunded credit commitments. We develop and document our allowance methodology at the portfolio segment level       commercial loan portfolio and consumer loan portfolio. While we attribute portions of the allowance to our respective commercial and consumer portfolio segments, the entire allowance is available to absorb credit losses inherent in the total loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments. 
  Our process involves procedures to appropriately consider the unique risk characteristics of our commercial and consumer loan portfolio segments. For each portfolio segment, losses are estimated collectively for groups of loans with similar characteristics, individually or pooled for impaired loans or, for PCI loans, based on the changes in cash flows expected to be collected. 
  Our allowance levels are influenced by loan volumes, loan grade migration or delinquency status, historic loss experience and other conditions influencing loss expectations, such as economic conditions.  
    
  COMMERCIAL PORTFOLIO SEGMENT ACL METHODOLOGY    Generally, commercial loans are assessed for estimated losses by grading each loan using various risk factors as identified through periodic reviews. Our estimation approach for the commercial portfolio reflects the estimated probability of default in accordance with the borrower s financial strength and the severity of loss in the event of default, considering the quality of any underlying collateral. Probability of default and severity at the time of default are statistically derived through historical observations of default and losses after default within each credit risk rating. These estimates are adjusted as appropriate based on additional analysis of long-term average loss experience compared to previously forecasted losses, external loss data or other risks identified from current economic conditions and credit quality trends. The estimated probability of default and severity at the time of default are applied to loan equivalent exposures to estimate losses for unfunded credit commitments. 
  The allowance also includes an amount for the estimated impairment on nonaccrual commercial loans and commercial loans modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual status. 
    
  CONSUMER PORTFOLIO SEGMENT ACL METHODOLOGY    For consumer loans that are not identified as a TDR, we generally determine the allowance on a collective basis utilizing forecasted losses to represent our best estimate of inherent loss. We pool loans, generally by product types with similar risk characteristics, such as residential real estate mortgages and credit cards. As appropriate and to achieve greater accuracy, we may further stratify selected portfolios by sub-product, origination channel, vintage, loss type, geographic location and other predictive characteristics. Models designed for each pool are utilized to develop the loss estimates. We use assumptions for these pools in our forecast models, such as historic delinquency and default, loss severity, home price trends, unemployment trends, and other key economic variables that may influence the frequency and severity of losses in the pool. 
  In determining the appropriate allowance attributable to our residential mortgage portfolio, we take into consideration portfolios determined to be at elevated risk, such as junior lien mortgages behind delinquent first lien mortgages and junior lien lines of credit subject to near term significant payment increases. We incorporate the default rates and high severity of loss for these higher risk portfolios, including the impact of our established loan modification programs. Accordingly, the loss content associated with the effects of loan modifications and  

higher risk portfolios has been captured in our ACL methodology. 
  We separately estimate impairment for consumer loans that have been modified in a TDR (including trial modifications), whether on accrual or nonaccrual status. 
    
  OTHER ACL MATTERS    The allowance for credit losses for both portfolio segments includes an amount for imprecision or uncertainty that may change from period to period. This amount represents management s judgment of risks inherent in the processes and assumptions used in establishing the allowance. This imprecision considers economic environmental factors, modeling assumptions and performance, process risk, and other subjective factors, including industry trends and emerging risk assessments. 
    
  Securitizations and Beneficial Interests 
  In certain asset securitization transactions that meet the applicable criteria to be accounted for as a sale, assets are sold to an entity referred to as a Special Purpose Entity (SPE), which then issues beneficial interests in the form of senior and subordinated interests collateralized by the assets. In some cases, we may retain beneficial interests issued by the entity. Additionally, from time to time, we may also re-securitize certain assets in a new securitization transaction. 
  The assets and liabilities transferred to an SPE are excluded from our consolidated balance sheet if the transfer qualifies as a sale and we are not required to consolidate the SPE. 
  For transfers of financial assets recorded as sales, we recognize and initially measure at fair value all assets obtained (including beneficial interests) and liabilities incurred. We record a gain or loss in noninterest income for the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the assets sold. Fair values are based on quoted market prices, quoted market prices for similar assets, or if market prices are not available, then the fair value is estimated using discounted cash flow analyses with assumptions for credit losses, prepayments and discount rates that are corroborated by and verified against market observable data, where possible. Retained interests and liabilities incurred from securitizations with off-balance sheet entities, including SPEs and VIEs, where we are not the primary beneficiary, are classified as investment securities, trading account assets, loans, MSRs, derivative assets and liabilities, other assets, other liabilities (including liabilities for mortgage repurchase losses), or long-term debt and are accounted for as described herein. 
    
  Mortgage Servicing Rights (MSRs) 
  We recognize the rights to service mortgage loans for others, or MSRs, as assets whether we purchase the MSRs or the MSRs result from a sale or securitization of loans we originate (asset transfers). We initially record all of our MSRs at fair value. Subsequently, residential loan MSRs are carried at fair value. All of our MSRs related to our commercial mortgage loans are subsequently measured at LOCOM. The valuation and sensitivity of MSRs is discussed further in Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities), Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) and Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities). 
  For MSRs carried at fair value, changes in fair value are reported in mortgage banking noninterest income in the period in which the change occurs. MSRs subsequently measured at LOCOM are amortized in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net servicing income. The amortization of MSRs is reported in mortgage banking noninterest income, analyzed  

monthly and adjusted to reflect changes in prepayment speeds, as well as other factors. 
  MSRs accounted for at LOCOM are periodically evaluated for impairment based on the fair value of those assets. For purposes of impairment evaluation and measurement, we stratify MSRs based on the predominant risk characteristics of the underlying loans, including investor and product type. If, by individual stratum, the carrying amount of these MSRs exceeds fair value, a valuation allowance is established. The valuation allowance is adjusted as the fair value changes. 
    
  Premises and Equipment 
  Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Capital leases, where we are the lessee, are included in premises and equipment at the capitalized amount less accumulated amortization. 
  We primarily use the straight-line method of depreciation and amortization. Estimated useful lives range up to   40 years   for buildings, up to   10 years   for furniture and equipment, and the shorter of the estimated useful life (up to   8 years  ) or the lease term for leasehold improvements. We amortize capitalized leased assets on a straight-line basis over the lives of the respective leases. 
    
  Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets 
  Goodwill is recorded in business combinations under the purchase method of accounting when the purchase price is higher than the fair value of net assets, including identifiable intangible assets. 
  We assess goodwill for impairment at a reporting unit level on an annual basis or more frequently in certain circumstances. We have determined that our reporting units are one level below the operating segments and distinguish these reporting units based on how the segments and reporting units are managed, taking into consideration the economic characteristics, nature of the products, and customers of the segments and reporting units. At the time we acquire a business, we allocate goodwill to applicable reporting units based on their relative fair value, and if we have a significant business reorganization, we may reallocate the goodwill. If we sell a business, a portion of goodwill is included with the carrying amount of the divested business. 
  We have the option of performing a qualitative assessment of goodwill. We may also elect to bypass the qualitative test and proceed directly to a quantitative test. If we perform a qualitative assessment of goodwill to test for impairment and conclude it is more likely than not that a reporting unit s fair value is greater than its carrying amount, quantitative tests are not required. However, if we determine it is more likely than not that a reporting unit s fair value is less than its carrying amount, then we complete a quantitative assessment to determine if there is goodwill impairment. We apply various quantitative valuation methodologies, including discounted cash flow and earnings multiple approaches, to determine the estimated fair value, which is compared to the carrying value of each reporting unit. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount, an additional test is required to measure the amount of impairment. We recognize impairment losses as a charge to other noninterest expense (unless related to discontinued operations) and an adjustment to the carrying value of the goodwill asset. Subsequent reversals of goodwill impairment are prohibited. 
  We amortize core deposit and other customer relationship intangibles on an accelerated basis over useful lives not exceeding 10 years. We review such intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that  

their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment is indicated if the sum of undiscounted estimated future net cash flows is less than the carrying value of the asset. Impairment is permanently recognized by writing down the asset to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value. 
    
  Derivatives and Hedging Activities 
  DERIVATIVES    We recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. On the date we enter into a derivative contract, we designate the derivative as (1) qualifying for hedge accounting in a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment, including hedges of foreign currency exposure ( fair value hedge ), (2) qualifying for hedge accounting in a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability ( cash flow hedge ), or (3) held for customer accommodation trading or asset/liability risk management or other purposes, including economic hedges not qualifying for hedge accounting. For derivatives not designated as a fair value or cash flow hedge, we report changes in the fair values in current period noninterest income. 
    
  DOCUMENTATION AND EFFECTIVENESS ASSESSMENT FOR ACCOUNTING HEDGES      For fair value and cash flow hedges qualifying for hedge accounting, we formally document at inception the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, our risk management objective, strategy and our evaluation of effectiveness for our hedge transactions. This process includes linking all derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges to specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific forecasted transactions. We assess hedge effectiveness using regression analysis, both at inception of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis. For fair value hedges, the regression analysis involves regressing the periodic change in fair value of the hedging instrument against the periodic changes in fair value of the asset or liability being hedged due to changes in the hedged risk(s). For cash flow hedges, the regression analysis involves regressing the periodic changes in fair value of the hedging instrument against the periodic changes in fair value of the hypothetical derivative. The hypothetical derivative has terms that identically match and offset the cash flows of the forecasted transaction being hedged due to changes in the hedged risk(s). The assessment for fair value and cash flow hedges includes an evaluation of the quantitative measures of the regression results used to validate the conclusion of high effectiveness. Periodically, as required, we also formally assess whether the derivative we designated in each hedging relationship is expected to be and has been highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item using the regression analysis method. 
    
  FAIR VALUE HEDGES    For a fair value hedge, we record changes in the fair value of the derivative and the hedged asset or liability due to the hedged risk in current period net income, except for certain derivatives in which a portion is recorded to OCI. We present derivative gains or losses in the same income statement category as the hedged asset or liability, as follows: 
             
    For fair value hedges of interest rate risk, amounts are reflected in net interest income. 
                
    For hedges of foreign currency risk, amounts representing the fair value changes less the accrual for periodic cash flow settlements are reflected in noninterest income. The periodic cash flow settlements are reflected in net interest income. 

Note 1:    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   (continued) 

For hedges of both interest rate risk and foreign currency risk, amounts representing the fair value change less the accrual for periodic cash flow settlements is attributed to both net interest income and noninterest income. The periodic cash flow settlements are reflected in net interest income. 
       
  The entire derivative gain or loss is included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness for all fair value hedge relationships, except for hedges of foreign-currency denominated available-for-sale investment securities and long-term debt liabilities, as follows: 
             
    When hedged with cross-currency swaps, the change in fair value of the derivative attributable to cross-currency basis spread changes component is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. The initial fair value of the excluded component is amortized to net interest income. For these hedges, the difference between changes in fair value of the excluded component and the amount recorded in earnings is recorded in OCI  . 
                
    When hedged with foreign currency forward derivatives, the change in fair value of the derivative attributable to the time value component related to the changes in the difference between the spot and forward price is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. For these hedges, the changes in fair value of the excluded component are recorded in net interest income.  
       
  CASH FLOW HEDGES    For a cash flow hedge, we record changes in the fair value of the derivative in OCI. We subsequently reclassify gains and losses from these changes in fair value from OCI to net income in the same period(s) that the hedged transaction affects net income and in the same income statement category as the hedged item, thus to net interest income. The entire gain or loss on these derivatives is included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness.  
    
  DISCONTINUING HEDGE ACCOUNTING    We discontinue hedge accounting prospectively when (1) a derivative is no longer highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item, (2) a derivative expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, (3) we elect to discontinue the designation of a derivative as a hedge, or (4) in a cash flow hedge, a derivative is de-designated because it is no longer probable that a forecasted transaction will occur. 
  When we discontinue fair value hedge accounting, we no longer adjust the previously hedged asset or liability for changes in fair value, and remaining cumulative adjustments to the hedged item are accounted for in the same manner as other components of the carrying amount of the asset or liability. If the derivative continues to be held after fair value hedge accounting ceases, we carry the derivative on the balance sheet at its fair value with changes in fair value included in noninterest income. 
  When we discontinue cash flow hedge accounting and it is probable that the forecasted transaction will occur, the accumulated amount reported in OCI at the de-designation date continues to be reported in OCI until the forecasted transaction affects net income at which point the related OCI amount is reclassified to net income. If cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued and it is probable the forecasted transaction will no longer occur, the accumulated gains and losses reported in OCI at the de-designation date is immediately reclassified to net income. If the derivative continues to be held after cash flow hedge accounting ceases, we carry the derivative on the balance  

sheet at its fair value with changes in fair value included in noninterest income. 
    
  EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES    We may purchase or originate financial instruments that contain an embedded derivative. At inception of the financial instrument, we assess (1) if the economic characteristics of the embedded derivative are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the financial instrument (host contract), (2) if the financial instrument that embodies both the embedded derivative and the host contract is not measured at fair value with changes in fair value reported in net income, and (3) if a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded instrument would meet the definition of a derivative. If the embedded derivative meets all of these conditions, we separate it from the host contract by recording the bifurcated derivative at fair value and the remaining host contract at the difference between the basis of the hybrid instrument and the fair value of the bifurcated derivative. The bifurcated derivative is carried at fair value with changes recorded in current period noninterest income. 
    
  COUNTERPARTY CREDIT RISK AND NETTING    By using derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty credit risk, which is the risk that counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as expected. If a counterparty fails to perform, our counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset on our balance sheet. The amounts reported as a derivative asset are derivative contracts in a gain position, and to the extent subject to legally enforceable master netting arrangements, net of derivatives in a loss position with the same counterparty and cash collateral received. We minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, executing master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. Counterparty credit risk related to derivatives is considered in determining fair value and our assessment of hedge effectiveness. To the extent derivatives subject to master netting arrangements meet the applicable requirements, including determining the legal enforceability of the arrangement, it is our policy to present derivative balances and related cash collateral amounts net on the balance sheet. In the second quarter of 2017, we adopted Settlement to Market treatment for the cash collateralizing our interest rate derivative contracts with certain centrally cleared counterparties. As a result of this adoption, derivative balances with these counterparties are considered settled by the collateral. 
  For additional information on our derivatives and hedging activities, see Note 16 (Derivatives). 
    
  Operating Lease Assets 
  Operating lease rental income for leased assets is recognized in other income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Related depreciation expense is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life, considering the estimated residual value of the leased asset. The useful life may be adjusted to the term of the lease depending on our plans for the asset after the lease term. On a periodic basis, leased assets are reviewed for impairment. Impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of leased assets exceeds fair value and is not recoverable. The carrying amount of leased assets is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the lease payments and the estimated residual value upon the eventual disposition of the equipment. 

Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses 
  In connection with our sales and securitization of residential mortgage loans to various parties, we establish a mortgage repurchase liability, initially at fair value, related to various representations and warranties that reflect management s estimate of losses for loans for which we could have a repurchase obligation, whether or not we currently service those loans, based on a combination of factors. Such factors include default expectations, expected investor repurchase demands (influenced by current and expected mortgage loan file requests and mortgage insurance rescission notices, as well as estimated levels of origination defects) and appeals success rates (where the investor rescinds the demand based on a cure of the defect or acknowledges that the loan satisfies the investor s applicable representations and warranties), reimbursement by correspondent and other third-party originators, and projected loss severity. We continually update our mortgage repurchase liability estimate during the life of the loans. 
  The liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is included in other liabilities. For additional information on our repurchase liability, see Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities). 
    
  Pension Accounting 
  We account for our defined benefit pension plans using an actuarial model. Two principal assumptions in determining net periodic pension cost are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. 
  A discount rate is used to estimate the present value of our future pension benefit obligations. We use a consistent methodology to determine the discount rate using a yield curve with maturity dates that closely match the estimated timing of the expected benefit payments for our plans. The yield curve is derived from a broad-based universe of high quality corporate bonds as of the measurement date. 
  Our determination of the reasonableness of our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is highly quantitative by nature. We evaluate the current asset allocations and expected returns under two sets of conditions: (1) projected returns using several forward-looking capital market assumptions, and (2) historical returns for the main asset classes dating back to 1970 or the earliest period for which historical data was readily available for the asset classes included. Using long-term historical data allows us to capture multiple economic environments, which we believe is relevant when using historical returns. We place greater emphasis on the forward-looking return and risk assumptions than on historical results. We use the resulting projections to derive a base line expected rate of return and risk level for the Cash Balance Plan s prescribed asset mix. We evaluate the portfolio based on: (1) the established target asset allocations over short term (  one  -year) and longer term (  ten  -year) investment horizons, and (2) the range of potential outcomes over these horizons within specific standard deviations. We perform the above analyses to assess the reasonableness of our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. We consider the expected rate of return to be a long-term average view of expected returns. The use of an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets may cause us to recognize pension income returns that are greater or less than the actual returns of plan assets in any given year. Differences between expected and actual returns in each year, if any, are included in our net actuarial gain or loss amount, which is recognized in OCI. We generally amortize net actuarial gain or loss in excess of a   5%   corridor from accumulated OCI into net periodic pension cost over the estimated average remaining participation period, which at   December 31, 2017  , is   20 years  . See Note 21 (Employee  

Benefits and Other Expenses) for additional information on our pension accounting. 
    
  Income Taxes 
  We file consolidated and separate company U.S. federal income tax returns, foreign tax returns and various combined and separate company state tax returns. 
  We evaluate two components of income tax expense: current and deferred income tax expense. Current income tax expense represents our estimated taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period and includes income tax expense related to our uncertain tax positions. Deferred income tax expense results from changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities between periods. We determine deferred income taxes using the balance sheet method. Under this method, the net deferred tax asset or liability is based on the tax effects of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and recognizes enacted changes in tax rates and laws in the period in which they occur. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to management's judgment that realization is  more likely than not . Uncertain tax positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold are measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize. An uncertain tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that management believes has a greater than 50% likelihood of realization upon settlement. Tax benefits not meeting our realization criteria represent unrecognized tax benefits. We account for interest and penalties as a component of income tax expense. We do not record U.S. tax on undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries to the extent the earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside of the U.S. Foreign taxes paid are generally applied as credits to reduce U.S. income taxes payable. In 2017, we did however, record an estimate of the U.S. tax expense associated with a deemed repatriation as required under the Tax Act. 
  See Note 22 (Income Taxes) to Financial Statements in this Report for a further description of our provision for income taxes and related income tax assets and liabilities. 
    
  Stock-Based Compensation 
  We have stock-based employee compensation plans as more fully discussed in Note 19 (Common Stock and Stock Plans). Our Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan provides for awards of incentive and nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted shares, restricted share rights (RSRs), performance share awards (PSAs) and stock awards without restrictions. For most awards, we measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments, such as stock options, RSRs or PSAs, based on the fair value of the award on the grant date. The cost is normally recognized in our income statement over the vesting period of the award; awards with graded vesting are expensed on a straight-line method. Awards that continue to vest after retirement are expensed over the shorter of the period of time between the grant date and the final vesting period or between the grant date and when a team member becomes retirement eligible; awards to team members who are retirement eligible at the grant date are subject to immediate expensing upon grant. 
  Beginning in 2013, certain RSRs and all PSAs granted include discretionary conditions that can result in forfeiture and are subject to variable accounting. For these awards, the associated compensation expense fluctuates with changes in our stock price. For PSAs, compensation expense also fluctuates based on the estimated outcome of meeting the performance conditions.  

Note 1:    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   (continued) 

Earnings Per Common Share 
  We compute earnings per common share by dividing net income (after deducting dividends on preferred stock) by the average number of common shares outstanding during the year. We compute diluted earnings per common share by dividing net income (after deducting dividends on preferred stock) by the average number of common shares outstanding during the year plus the effect of common stock equivalents (for example, stock options, restricted share rights, convertible debentures and warrants) that are dilutive. 
    
  Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
  We use fair value measurements in our fair value disclosures and to record certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis, such as trading assets, or on a nonrecurring basis, such as measuring impairment on assets carried at amortized cost. 
    
  DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUE      We base our fair values on the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. These fair value measurements are based on exit prices and determined by maximizing the use of observable inputs. However, for certain instruments we must utilize unobservable inputs in determining fair value due to the lack of observable inputs in the market, which requires greater judgment in measuring fair value. 
  In instances where there is limited or no observable market data, fair value measurements for assets and liabilities are based primarily upon our own estimates or combination of our own estimates and third-party vendor or broker pricing, and the measurements are often calculated based on current pricing for products we offer or issue, the economic and competitive environment, the characteristics of the asset or liability and other such factors. As with any valuation technique used to estimate fair value, changes in underlying assumptions used, including discount rates and estimates of future cash flows, could significantly affect the results of current or future values. Accordingly, these fair value estimates may not be realized in an actual sale or immediate settlement of the asset or liability. 
  We incorporate lack of liquidity into our fair value measurement based on the type of asset or liability measured and the valuation methodology used. For example, for certain residential MHFS and certain securities where the significant inputs have become unobservable due to illiquid markets and vendor or broker pricing is not used, we use a discounted cash flow technique to measure fair value. This technique incorporates forecasting of expected cash flows (adjusted for credit loss assumptions and estimated prepayment speeds) discounted at an appropriate market discount rate to reflect the lack of liquidity in the market that a market participant would consider. For other securities where vendor or broker pricing is used, we use either unadjusted broker quotes or vendor prices or vendor or broker prices adjusted by weighting them with internal discounted cash flow techniques to measure fair value. These unadjusted vendor or broker prices inherently reflect any lack of liquidity in the market, as the fair value measurement represents an exit price from a market participant viewpoint. 

Where markets are inactive and transactions are not orderly, transaction or quoted prices for assets or liabilities in inactive markets may require adjustment due to the uncertainty of whether the underlying transactions are orderly. For items that use price quotes in inactive markets, we analyze the degree of market inactivity and distressed transactions to determine the appropriate adjustment to the price quotes. 
  We continually assess the level and volume of market activity in our investment security classes in determining adjustments, if any, to price quotes. Given market conditions can change over time, our determination of which securities markets are considered active or inactive can change. If we determine a market to be inactive, the degree to which price quotes require adjustment, can also change. See Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) for discussion of the fair value hierarchy and valuation methodologies applied to financial instruments to determine fair value.  
    
  Private Share Repurchases 
  During   2017   and   2016  , we repurchased approximately   89 million   shares and   56 million   shares of our common stock, respectively, under private forward repurchase contracts. We enter into these transactions with unrelated third parties to complement our open-market common stock repurchase strategies, to allow us to manage our share repurchases in a manner consistent with our capital plans, currently submitted under the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), and to provide an economic benefit to the Company. 
  Our payments to the counterparties for these private share repurchase contracts are recorded in permanent equity in the quarter paid and are not subject to re-measurement. The classification of the up-front payments as permanent equity assures that we have appropriate repurchase timing consistent with our capital plans, which contemplated a fixed dollar amount available per quarter for share repurchases pursuant to Federal Reserve Board (FRB) supervisory guidance. In return, the counterparty agrees to deliver a variable number of shares based on a per share discount to the volume-weighted average stock price over the contract period. There are no scenarios where the contracts would not either physically settle in shares or allow us to choose the settlement method.  
  We had   no   unsettled private share repurchase contracts at   December 31, 2017  . At   December 31, 2016  , we had a   $750 million   private forward repurchase contract outstanding that settled in first quarter   2017   for   14.7 million   shares of common stock. Our total number of outstanding shares of common stock is not reduced until settlement of the private share repurchase contract. 

SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION    Noncash activities are presented in   Table 1.1  , including information on transfers affecting MHFS, LHFS, and MSRs. 

Table 1.1:      Supplemental Cash Flow Information    

SUBSEQUENT EVENTS    We have evaluated the effects of events that have occurred subsequent to   December 31, 2017  , and there have been no material events that would require recognition in our   2017   consolidated financial statements or disclosure in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. 

Note 2:    Business Combinations 

We regularly explore opportunities to acquire financial services companies and businesses. Generally, we do not make a public announcement about an acquisition opportunity until a definitive agreement has been signed. We also periodically review existing businesses to ensure they remain strategically aligned with our operating business model and risk profile. 

Business combinations completed in   2017  ,   2016   and   2015   are presented in   Table 2.1  . As of   December 31, 2017  , we had   no   pending acquisitions. 

Table 2.1:      Business Combinations Activity    
                                   Name of acquisition 
      
    Location 
      
    Type of business 
      
    Date 
      
    Total assets 
  (in millions) 
      
      2017: 

Golden Capital Management, LLC 
      
    Charlotte, NC 
      
    Asset Management 
      
    July 1 
      
    $ 
    83 

2016: 
      GE Railcar Services 
      
    Chicago, IL 
      
    Railcar and locomotive leasing 
      
    January 1 
      
    $ 
    4,339 
      
      GE Capital's Commercial Distribution Finance and Vendor Finance Businesses 
      
    North America, Asia, Australia / New Zealand and EMEA 
      
    Specialty Lending 
      
    March 1, July 1, August 1   October 1 
      
    32,531 
      
      Analytic Investors, LLC 
      
    Los Angeles, CA 
      
    Asset Management 
      
    October 1 
      
    106 

$ 
    36,976 
      
      2015: 
      hs.Financial Products GmbH 
      
    Germany 
      
    Asset Management 
      
    November 30 
      
    $ 
    3 

We also completed   one   significant divestiture in 2017. On   November 30, 2017  , we completed the divestiture of Wells Fargo Insurance Services, USA. The transaction resulted in a pre-tax gain for 2017 of   $848 million  .  

Note 3:    Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions 

Federal Reserve Board (FRB) regulations require that each of our subsidiary banks maintain reserve balances on deposit with the Federal Reserve Banks. The total daily average required reserve balance for all our subsidiary banks was   $12.3 billion   in   2017   and   $10.7 billion   in   2016  . 
  Federal law restricts the amount and the terms of both credit and non-credit transactions between a bank and its nonbank affiliates. These covered transactions may not exceed   10%   of the bank s capital and surplus (which for this purpose represents Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, as calculated under the risk-based capital (RBC) guidelines, plus the balance of the allowance for credit losses excluded from Tier 2 capital) with any single nonbank affiliate and   20%   of the bank s capital and surplus with all its nonbank affiliates. Transactions that are extensions of credit may require collateral to be held to provide added security to the bank. For further discussion of RBC, see Note 27 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) in this Report. 
  Dividends paid by our subsidiary banks are subject to various federal and state regulatory limitations. Dividends that may be paid by a national bank without the express approval of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) are limited to that bank s retained net profits for the preceding two calendar years plus retained net profits up to the date of any dividend declaration in the current calendar year. Retained net profits, as defined by the OCC, consist of net income less dividends declared during the period.  
  We also have a state-chartered subsidiary bank that is subject to state regulations that limit dividends. Under these provisions and regulatory limitations, our national and state-chartered subsidiary banks could have declared additional dividends of   $20.9 billion   at   December 31, 2017  . We have elected to retain higher capital at our national and state-chartered subsidiary banks in order to meet internal capital policy minimums and regulatory requirements. Our nonbank subsidiaries are also limited by certain federal and state statutory provisions and regulations covering the amount of dividends that may be paid in any given year. In addition, under a Support Agreement dated June 28, 2017 among Wells Fargo   Company, the parent holding company (the  Parent ), WFC Holdings, LLC, an intermediate holding company and subsidiary of the Parent (the  IHC ), and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, and Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC, each an indirect subsidiary of the Parent, the IHC may be restricted from making dividend payments to the Parent if certain liquidity and/or capital metrics fall below defined triggers. Based on retained earnings at   December 31, 2017  , our nonbank subsidiaries could have declared additional dividends of   $23.9 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , without obtaining prior approval. 

The FRB s Capital Plan Rule (codified at 12 CFR 225.8 of Regulation Y) establishes capital planning and prior notice and approval requirements for capital distributions including dividends by certain large bank holding companies. The FRB has also published guidance regarding its supervisory expectations for capital planning, including capital policies regarding the process relating to common stock dividend and repurchase decisions in the FRB s SR Letter 15-18. The effect of this guidance is to require the approval of the FRB (or specifically under the Capital Plan Rule, a notice of non-objection) for the Company to repurchase or redeem common or perpetual preferred stock as well as to raise the per share quarterly dividend from its current level of   $0.39   per share as declared by the Company s Board of Directors on January 23, 2018, payable on March 1, 2018. 

Note 4:      Federal Funds Sold, Securities Purchased under Resale Agreements and Other     Short-Term Investments 

Table 4.1   provides the detail of federal funds sold, securities purchased under short-term resale agreements (generally less than one year) and other short-term investments. Substantially all of the interest-earning deposits at   December 31, 2017   and   2016   were held at Federal Reserve Banks. 
    
  Table 4.1:      Fed Funds Sold and Other Short-Term Investments    

As part of maintaining our memberships in certain clearing organizations, we are required to stand ready to provide liquidity meant to sustain market clearing activity in the event unforeseen events occur or are deemed likely to occur. This includes commitments we have entered into to purchase securities under resale agreements from a central clearing organization that, at its option, require us to provide funding under such agreements. We do not have any outstanding amounts funded, and the amount of our unfunded contractual commitment was   $2.8 billion   and   $2.9 billion   as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. 

We have classified securities purchased under long-term resale agreements (generally one year or more), which totaled   $19.0 billion   and   $21.3 billion   in loans at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. For additional information on the collateral we receive from other entities under resale agreements and securities borrowings, see the  Offsetting of Resale and Repurchase Agreements and Securities Borrowing and Lending Agreements  section in Note 14 (Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral, and Other Commitments). 

Note 5:    Investment Securities   (continued) 

Note 5:    Investment Securities 

Table 5.1   provides the amortized cost and fair value by major categories of available-for-sale securities, which are carried at fair value, and held-to-maturity debt securities, which are  

carried at amortized cost. The net unrealized gains (losses) for available-for-sale securities are reported on an after-tax basis as a component of cumulative OCI. 

Table 5.1:      Amortized Cost and Fair Value    

(2) 
    The  Other  category of available-for-sale securities largely includes asset-backed securities collateralized by student loans. Included in the  Other  category of held-to-maturity securities are asset-backed securities collateralized by automobile leases or loans and cash with a cost basis and fair value of   $114 million   each at   December 31, 2017  , and   $1.3 billion   each at   December 31, 2016  .   Also included in the  Other  category of held-to-maturity securities are asset-backed securities collateralized by dealer floorplan loans with a cost basis and fair value of   $0 billion   each at   December 31, 2017  , and   $1.1 billion   each at   December 31, 2016  . 
               (4) 
    At   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , we held   no   securities of any single issuer (excluding the U.S. Treasury and federal agencies and government-sponsored entities (GSEs)) with a book value that exceeded 10% of stockholder's equity. 

Gross Unrealized Losses and Fair Value 
  Table 5.2   shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value of securities in the investment securities portfolio by length of time that individual securities in each category have been in a continuous loss position. Debt securities on which we have taken  

credit-related OTTI write-downs are categorized as being  less than 12 months  or  12 months or more  in a continuous loss position based on the point in time that the fair value declined to below the cost basis and not the period of time since the credit-related OTTI write-down. 

Table 5.2:      Gross Unrealized Losses and Fair Value   

Note 5:    Investment Securities   (continued) 

We have assessed each security with gross unrealized losses included in the previous table for credit impairment. As part of that assessment we evaluated and concluded that we do not intend to sell any of the securities and that it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell prior to recovery of the amortized cost basis. For debt securities, we evaluate, where necessary, whether credit impairment exists by comparing the present value of the expected cash flows to the securities  amortized cost basis. For equity securities, we consider numerous factors in determining whether impairment exists, including our intent and ability to hold the securities for a period of time sufficient to recover the cost basis of the securities.  
  For descriptions of the factors we consider when analyzing securities for impairment, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) and below.  
    
  SECURITIES OF U.S. TREASURY AND FEDERAL AGENCIES AND FEDERAL AGENCY MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES (MBS)    The unrealized losses associated with U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities and federal agency MBS are generally driven by changes in interest rates and not due to credit losses given the explicit or implicit guarantees provided by the U.S. government. 
    
  SECURITIES OF U.S. STATES AND POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS    The unrealized losses associated with securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions are usually driven by changes in the relationship between municipal and term funding credit curves rather than by changes to the credit quality of the underlying securities. Substantially all of these investments with unrealized losses are investment grade. The securities were generally underwritten in accordance with our own investment standards prior to the decision to purchase. Some of these securities are guaranteed by a bond insurer, but we did not rely on this guarantee when making our investment decision. These investments will continue to be monitored as part of our ongoing impairment analysis but are expected to perform, even if the rating agencies reduce the credit rating of the bond insurers. As a result, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities. 
    
  RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL MBS    The unrealized losses associated with private residential MBS and commercial MBS are generally driven by changes in projected collateral losses, credit spreads and interest rates. We assess for credit impairment by estimating the present value of expected cash flows. The key assumptions for determining expected cash flows include default rates, loss severities and/or prepayment rates. We estimate security losses by forecasting the underlying mortgage loans in each transaction. We use forecasted loan performance to project cash flows to the various tranches in the structure. We also consider cash flow forecasts and, as applicable, independent industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings, and other independent market data. Based upon our assessment of the expected credit losses and the credit enhancement level of the securities, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities. 

CORPORATE DEBT SECURITIES    The unrealized losses associated with corporate debt securities are predominantly related to unsecured debt obligations issued by various corporations. We evaluate the financial performance of each issuer on a quarterly basis to determine if the issuer can make all contractual principal and interest payments. Based upon this assessment, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities. 
    
  COLLATERALIZED LOAN AND OTHER DEBT OBLIGATIONS    The unrealized losses associated with collateralized loan and other debt obligations relate to securities predominantly backed by commercial collateral. The unrealized losses are typically driven by changes in projected collateral losses, credit spreads and interest rates. We assess for credit impairment by estimating the present value of expected cash flows. The key assumptions for determining expected cash flows include default rates, loss severities and prepayment rates. We also consider cash flow forecasts and, as applicable, independent industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings, and other independent market data. Based upon our assessment of the expected credit losses and the credit enhancement level of the securities, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities. 
    
  OTHER DEBT SECURITIES    The unrealized losses associated with other debt securities predominantly relate to other asset-backed securities. The losses are usually driven by changes in projected collateral losses, credit spreads and interest rates. We assess for credit impairment by estimating the present value of expected cash flows. The key assumptions for determining expected cash flows include default rates, loss severities and prepayment rates. Based upon our assessment of the expected credit losses and the credit enhancement level of the securities, we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of these securities. 
    
  MARKETABLE EQUITY SECURITIES      Our marketable equity securities include investments in perpetual preferred securities, which provide attractive tax-equivalent yields. We evaluate these hybrid financial instruments with investment-grade ratings for impairment using an evaluation methodology similar to the approach used for debt securities. Perpetual preferred securities are not considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired if there is no evidence of credit deterioration or investment rating downgrades of any issuers to below investment grade, and we expect to continue to receive full contractual payments. We will continue to evaluate the prospects for these securities for recovery in their market value in accordance with our policy for estimating OTTI. We have recorded impairment write-downs on perpetual preferred securities where there was evidence of credit deterioration. 
    
  OTHER INVESTMENT SECURITIES     MATTERS    The fair values of our investment securities could decline in the future if the underlying performance of the collateral for the residential and commercial MBS or other securities deteriorate, and our credit enhancement levels do not provide sufficient protection to our contractual principal and interest. As a result, there is a risk that significant OTTI may occur in the future. 

Table 5.3   shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value of debt and perpetual preferred investment securities by those rated investment grade and those rated less than investment grade, according to their lowest credit rating by Standard   Poor s Rating Services (S P) or Moody s Investors Service (Moody s). Credit ratings express opinions about the credit quality of a security. Securities rated investment grade, that is those rated BBB- or higher by S P or Baa3 or higher by Moody s, are generally considered by the rating agencies and market participants to be low credit risk. Conversely, securities rated below investment grade, labeled as  speculative grade  by the rating agencies, are considered to be distinctively higher  

credit risk than investment grade securities. We have also included securities not rated by S P or Moody s in the table below based on our internal credit grade of the securities (used for credit risk management purposes) equivalent to the credit rating assigned by major credit agencies. The unrealized losses and fair value of unrated securities categorized as investment grade based on internal credit grades were   $32 million   and   $6.9 billion  , respectively, at   December 31, 2017  , and   $54 million   and   $7.0 billion  , respectively, at   December 31, 2016  . If an internal credit grade was not assigned, we categorized the security as non-investment grade. 

Table 5.3:      Gross Unrealized Losses and Fair Value by Investment Grade    

Note 5:    Investment Securities   (continued) 

Contractual Maturities 
  Table 5.4   shows the remaining contractual maturities and contractual weighted-average yields (taxable-equivalent basis) of available-for-sale debt securities. The remaining contractual  

principal maturities for MBS do not consider prepayments. Remaining expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations before the underlying mortgages mature. 

Table 5.4:      Contractual Maturities    

(1) 
    Weighted-average yields displayed by maturity bucket are weighted based on fair value and predominantly represent contractual coupon rates without effect for any related hedging derivatives. 

Table 5.5   shows the amortized cost and weighted-average yields of held-to-maturity debt securities by contractual maturity. 

Table 5.5:      Amortized Cost by Contractual Maturity    

(1) 
    Weighted-average yields displayed by maturity bucket are weighted based on amortized cost and predominantly represent contractual coupon rates. 
         
  Table 5.6   shows the fair value of held-to-maturity debt securities by contractual maturity. 

Table 5.6:      Fair Value by Contractual Maturity    

Note 5:    Investment Securities   (continued) 

Realized Gains and Losses 
  Table 5.7   shows the gross realized gains and losses on sales and OTTI write-downs related to the available-for-sale securities portfolio, which includes marketable equity securities, as well as  

net realized gains and losses on nonmarketable equity investments (see Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets)). 

Table 5.7:      Realized Gains and Losses    

Other-Than-Temporary Impairment 
  Table 5.8   shows the detail of total OTTI write-downs included in earnings for available-for-sale debt securities, marketable equity  

securities and nonmarketable equity investments. There were   no   OTTI write-downs on held-to-maturity securities during the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   or   2015  . 

Table 5.8:      OTTI Write-downs    

Other-Than-Temporarily Impaired Debt Securities 
  Table 5.9   shows the detail of OTTI write-downs on available-for-sale debt securities included in earnings and the related changes in OCI for the same securities. 

Table 5.9:      OTTI Write-downs Included in Earnings    

(1) 
    Represents amounts recorded to OCI for impairment, due to factors other than credit, on debt securities that have also had credit-related OTTI write-downs during the period. Increases represent initial or subsequent non-credit-related OTTI on debt securities. Decreases represent partial to full reversal of impairment due to recoveries in the fair value of securities due to non-credit factors. 
       
    Table 5.10   presents a rollforward of the OTTI credit loss that has been recognized in earnings as a write-down of available-for-sale debt securities we still own (referred to as  credit-impaired  debt securities) and do not intend to sell. Recognized credit loss  

represents the difference between the present value of expected future cash flows discounted using the security s current effective interest rate and the amortized cost basis of the security prior to considering credit loss. 

Table 5.10:      Rollforward of OTTI Credit Loss    

(1) 
    Recoveries of previous credit impairments result from increases in expected cash flows subsequent to credit loss recognition. Such recoveries are reflected prospectively as interest yield adjustments using the effective interest method. 

Note 6:    Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses   (continued) 

Note 6:    Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses 

Table 6.1   presents total loans outstanding by portfolio segment and class of financing receivable. Outstanding balances include a total net reduction of   $3.9 billion   and   $4.4 billion   at  

December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively, for unearned income, net deferred loan fees, and unamortized discounts and premiums.  

Table 6.1:      Loans Outstanding    

Our foreign loans are reported by respective class of financing receivable in the table above. Substantially all of our foreign loan portfolio is commercial loans. Loans are classified as foreign primarily based on whether the borrower s primary  

address is outside of the United States.   Table 6.2   presents total commercial foreign loans outstanding by class of financing receivable. 

Table 6.2:      Commercial Foreign Loans Outstanding    

Loan Concentrations    
  Loan concentrations may exist when there are amounts loaned to borrowers engaged in similar activities or similar types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that would cause them to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. At   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , we did not have concentrations representing   10%   or more of our total loan portfolio in domestic commercial and industrial loans and lease financing by industry or CRE loans (real estate mortgage and real estate construction) by state or property type. Real estate 1-4 family non-PCI mortgage loans to borrowers in the state of California represented   12%   of total loans at   December 31, 2017  , compared with   11%   at December 31,   2016  , and PCI loans were under   1%   in both years. These California loans are generally diversified among the larger metropolitan areas in California, with no single area consisting of more than   4%   of total loans. We continuously monitor changes in real estate values and underlying economic or market conditions for all geographic areas of our real estate 1-4 family mortgage portfolio as part of our credit risk management process. 
  Some of our real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgage loans include an interest-only feature as part of the loan terms. These interest-only loans were approximately   4%   of total loans at   December 31, 2017  , and   7%   at   December 31, 2016  . Substantially all of these interest-only loans at origination were considered to be prime or near prime. We do not offer option adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) products, nor do we offer variable-rate mortgage products with fixed payment amounts, commonly referred to within the financial services industry as negative amortizing mortgage loans. We acquired an option payment loan portfolio (Pick-a-Pay) from Wachovia at December 31, 2008. A majority of the portfolio was identified as PCI loans. Since the acquisition, we have reduced our exposure to the option payment portion of the portfolio through our modification efforts and loss mitigation actions. At   December 31, 2017  , approximately   1%   of total loans remained with the payment option feature compared with   10%   at December 31, 2008. 
  Our first and junior lien lines of credit products generally have draw periods of   10  ,   15   or   20 years  , with variable interest rate and payment options during the draw period of (1) interest only or (2)   1.5%   of total outstanding balance plus accrued  

interest. During the draw period, the borrower has the option of converting all or a portion of the line from a variable interest rate to a fixed rate with terms including interest-only payments for a fixed period between   three   to   seven   years or a fully amortizing payment with a fixed period between   five   to   30 years  . At the end of the draw period, a line of credit generally converts to an amortizing payment schedule with repayment terms of up to      30 years   based on the balance at time of conversion. At   December 31, 2017  , our lines of credit portfolio had an outstanding balance of   $49.9 billion  , of which   $12.3 billion  , or   25%  , is in its amortization period, another   $3.0 billion  , or   6%  , of our total outstanding balance, will reach their end of draw period during   2018   through   2019  ,   $9.3 billion  , or   19%  , during   2020   through   2022  , and   $25.3 billion  , or   50%  , will convert in subsequent years. This portfolio had unfunded credit commitments of   $62.3 billion   at   December 31, 2017  . The lines that enter their amortization period may experience higher delinquencies and higher loss rates than the lines in their draw period. At   December 31, 2017  ,   $575 million  , or   5%  , of outstanding lines of credit that are in their amortization period were 30 or more days past due, compared with   $690 million  , or   2%  , for lines in their draw period. We have considered this increased inherent risk in our allowance for credit loss estimate. In anticipation of our borrowers reaching the end of their contractual commitment, we have created a program to inform, educate and help these borrowers transition from interest-only to fully-amortizing payments or full repayment. We monitor the performance of the borrowers moving through the program in an effort to refine our ongoing program strategy. 
    
  Loan Purchases, Sales, and Transfers 
  Table 6.3   summarizes the proceeds paid or received for purchases and sales of loans and transfers from loans held for investment to mortgages/loans held for sale at lower of cost or fair value. This loan activity primarily includes loans purchased and sales of whole loan or participating interests, whereby we receive or transfer a portion of a loan after origination. The table excludes PCI loans and loans recorded at fair value, including loans originated for sale because their loan activity normally does not impact the allowance for credit losses. 

Table 6.3:      Loan Purchases, Sales, and Transfers    

(1) 
    Excludes activity in government insured/guaranteed real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loans. As servicer, we are able to buy delinquent insured/guaranteed loans out of the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) pools, and manage and/or resell them in accordance with applicable requirements. These loans are predominantly insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Accordingly, these loans have limited impact on the allowance for loan losses. 
              (2) 
    Purchases include loans and capital leases from the 2016 GE Capital business acquisitions. 

Note 6:    Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses   (continued) 

Commitments to Lend 
  A commitment to lend is a legally binding agreement to lend funds to a customer, usually at a stated interest rate, if funded, and for specific purposes and time periods. We generally require a fee to extend such commitments. Certain commitments are subject to loan agreements with covenants regarding the financial performance of the customer or borrowing base formulas on an ongoing basis that must be met before we are required to fund the commitment. We may reduce or cancel consumer commitments, including home equity lines and credit card lines, in accordance with the contracts and applicable law. 
  We may, as a representative for other lenders, advance funds or provide for the issuance of letters of credit under syndicated loan or letter of credit agreements. Any advances are generally repaid in less than a week and would normally require default of both the customer and another lender to expose us to loss. These temporary advance arrangements totaled approximately   $85 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , and   $77 billion   at   December 31, 2016  . 
  We issue commercial letters of credit to assist customers in purchasing goods or services, typically for international trade. At   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , we had   $982 million   and   $1.1 billion  , respectively, of outstanding issued commercial letters of credit. We also originate multipurpose lending commitments under which borrowers have the option to draw on the facility for different purposes in one of several forms, including a standby letter of credit. See Note 14 (Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral, and Other Commitments) for additional information on standby letters of credit. 
  When we make commitments, we are exposed to credit risk. The maximum credit risk for these commitments will generally be lower than the contractual amount because a significant portion of these commitments are expected to expire without being used by the customer. In addition, we manage the potential risk in commitments to lend by limiting the total amount of commitments, both by individual customer and in total, by monitoring the size and maturity structure of these commitments and by applying the same credit standards for these commitments as for all of our credit activities. 

For loans and commitments to lend, we generally require collateral or a guarantee. We may require various types of collateral, including commercial and consumer real estate, automobiles, other short-term liquid assets such as accounts receivable or inventory and long-lived assets, such as equipment and other business assets. Collateral requirements for each loan or commitment may vary based on the loan product and our assessment of a customer s credit risk according to the specific credit underwriting, including credit terms and structure. 
  The contractual amount of our unfunded credit commitments, including unissued standby and commercial letters of credit, is summarized by portfolio segment and class of financing receivable in   Table 6.4  . The table excludes the issued standby and commercial letters of credit and temporary advance arrangements described above. 
  Table 6.4:      Unfunded Credit Commitments    

Allowance for Credit Losses 
    Table 6.5   presents the allowance for credit losses, which consists of the allowance for loan losses and the allowance for unfunded credit commitments.  

Table 6.5:      Allowance for Credit Losses    

(1) 
    Certain impaired loans with an allowance calculated by discounting expected cash flows using the loan s effective interest rate over the remaining life of the loan recognize changes in allowance attributable to the passage of time as interest income. 

Note 6:    Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses   (continued) 

Table 6.6   summarizes the activity in the allowance for credit losses by our commercial and consumer portfolio segments.  

Table 6.6:      Allowance Activity by Portfolio Segment    

Table 6.7   disaggregates our allowance for credit losses and recorded investment in loans by impairment methodology. 

Table 6.7:      Allowance by Impairment Methodology    

(1) 
    Represents loans collectively evaluated for impairment in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 450-20,   Loss Contingencies   (formerly FAS 5), and pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010-20 regarding allowance for non-impaired loans. 
              (2) 
    Represents loans individually evaluated for impairment in accordance with ASC 310-10,   Receivables   (formerly FAS 114), and pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010-20 regarding allowance for impaired loans. 
              (3) 
    Represents the allowance and related loan carrying value determined in accordance with ASC 310-30  , Receivables   Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality   (formerly SOP 3-3) and pursuant to amendments by ASU 2010-20 regarding allowance for PCI loans. 

Credit Quality 
  We monitor credit quality by evaluating various attributes and utilize such information in our evaluation of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses. The following sections provide the credit quality indicators we most closely monitor. The credit quality indicators are generally based on information as of our financial statement date, with the exception of updated Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) scores and updated loan-to-value (LTV)/combined LTV (CLTV). We obtain FICO scores at loan origination and the scores are generally updated at least quarterly, except in limited circumstances, including compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA). Generally, the LTV and CLTV indicators are updated in the second month of each quarter, with updates no older than September 30,   2017  . See the  Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans  section in this Note for credit quality information on our PCI portfolio. 

COMMERCIAL CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS    In addition to monitoring commercial loan concentration risk, we manage a consistent process for assessing commercial loan credit quality. Generally, commercial loans are subject to individual risk assessment using our internal borrower and collateral quality ratings. Our ratings are aligned to Pass and Criticized categories. The Criticized category includes Special Mention, Substandard, and Doubtful categories which are defined by bank regulatory agencies. 
  Table 6.8   provides a breakdown of outstanding commercial loans by risk category. Of the   $16.6 billion   in criticized commercial and industrial loans and   $4.6 billion   in criticized commercial real estate (CRE) loans at   December 31, 2017  ,   $1.9 billion   and   $665 million  , respectively, have been placed on nonaccrual status and written down to net realizable collateral value. 

Table 6.8:      Commercial Loans by Risk Category    

Table 6.9   provides past due information for commercial loans, which we monitor as part of our credit risk management practices. 

Table 6.9:      Commercial Loans by Delinquency Status    

Note 6:    Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses   (continued) 

CONSUMER CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS    We have various classes of consumer loans that present unique risks. Loan delinquency, FICO credit scores and LTV for loan types are common credit quality indicators that we monitor and utilize in our evaluation of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses for the consumer portfolio segment. 

Many of our loss estimation techniques used for the allowance for credit losses rely on delinquency-based models; therefore, delinquency is an important indicator of credit quality and the establishment of our allowance for credit losses.   Table 6.10   provides the outstanding balances of our consumer portfolio by delinquency status. 

Table 6.10:      Consumer Loans by Delinquency Status    

Of the   $3.0 billion   of consumer loans not government insured/guaranteed that are 90 days or more past due at   December 31, 2017  ,   $1.0 billion   was accruing, compared with   $3.5 billion   past due and   $908 million   accruing at   December 31, 2016  . 
  Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loans 180 days or more past due totaled   $1.1 billion  , or   0.4%   of total first mortgages (excluding PCI), at   December 31, 2017  , compared with   $1.7 billion  , or   0.6%  , at   December 31, 2016  . 

Table 6.11   provides a breakdown of our consumer portfolio by FICO. The   December 31, 2017  , FICO scores for real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages reflect a new FICO score version we adopted in first quarter 2017 to monitor and manage those portfolios. In general, the impact for us is a shift to higher scores, particularly to the 800+ level, as the new FICO score version utilizes a more refined approach that better distinguishes borrower credit risk.   Most   of the scored consumer portfolio has an updated FICO of 680 and above, reflecting a strong current borrower credit profile. FICO is not available for certain loan types, or may not be required if we deem it unnecessary due to strong collateral and other borrower attributes. Substantially all loans not requiring a FICO score are securities-based loans originated through retail brokerage, and totaled   $8.5 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , and   $8.0 billion   at   December 31, 2016  . 

Table 6.11:      Consumer Loans by FICO    

(2) 
    Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA. 
       
    LTV refers to the ratio comparing the loan s unpaid principal balance to the property s collateral value. CLTV refers to the combination of first mortgage and junior lien mortgage (including unused line amounts for credit line products) ratios. LTVs and CLTVs are updated quarterly using a cascade approach which first uses values provided by automated valuation models (AVMs) for the property. If an AVM is not available, then the value is estimated using the original appraised value adjusted by the change in Home Price Index (HPI) for the property location. If an HPI is not available, the original appraised value is used. The HPI value is normally the only method considered for high value properties, generally with an original value of   $1 million   or more, as the AVM values have proven less accurate for these properties. 

Table 6.12   shows the most updated LTV and CLTV distribution of the real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgage loan portfolios. We consider the trends in residential real estate markets as we monitor credit risk and establish our allowance for credit losses. In the event of a default, any loss should be limited to the portion of the loan amount in excess of the net realizable value of the underlying real estate collateral value. Certain loans do not have an LTV or CLTV due to industry data availability and portfolios acquired from or serviced by other institutions. 

Note 6:    Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses   (continued) 

Table 6.12:      Consumer Loans by LTV/CLTV    

(1) 
    Reflects total loan balances with LTV/CLTV amounts in excess of 100%. In the event of default, the loss content would generally be limited to only the amount in excess of 100% LTV/CLTV. 
              (2) 
    Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA. 
       
    NONACCRUAL LOANS      Table 6.13   provides loans on nonaccrual status. PCI loans are excluded from this table because they continue to earn interest from accretable yield, independent of performance in accordance with their contractual terms. 
    
  Table 6.13:      Nonaccrual Loans    

LOANS IN PROCESS OF FORECLOSURE    Our recorded investment in consumer mortgage loans collateralized by residential real estate property that are in process of foreclosure was   $6.3 billion   and   $8.1 billion   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively, which included   $4.0 billion   and   $4.8 billion  , respectively, of loans that are government insured/guaranteed. We commence the foreclosure process on consumer real estate loans when a borrower becomes 120 days delinquent in accordance with Consumer Finance Protection Bureau Guidelines. Foreclosure procedures and timelines vary depending on whether the property address resides in a judicial or non-judicial state. Judicial states require the foreclosure to be processed through the state s courts while non-judicial states are processed without court intervention. Foreclosure timelines vary according to state law. 

LOANS 90 DAYS OR MORE PAST DUE AND STILL ACCRUING       Certain loans 90 days or more past due as to interest or principal are still accruing, because they are (1) well-secured and in the process of collection or (2) real estate 1 4 family mortgage loans or consumer loans exempt under regulatory rules from being classified as nonaccrual until later delinquency, usually 120 days past due. PCI loans of   $1.4 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , and   $2.0 billion   at   December 31, 2016  , are not included in these past due and still accruing loans even though they are 90 days or more contractually past due. These PCI loans are considered to be accruing because they continue to earn interest from accretable yield, independent of performance in accordance with their contractual terms. 
  Table 6.14   shows non-PCI loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing by class for loans not government insured/guaranteed. 
    
  Table 6.14:      Loans 90 Days or More Past Due and Still Accruing    

(1) 
    Represents loans whose repayments are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA. 
              (2) 
    Includes mortgage loans held for sale 90 days or more past due and still accruing. 
              (3) 
    Represents loans whose repayments are largely guaranteed by agencies on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education under the FFELP. All remaining student loans guaranteed under the FFELP were sold as of March 31, 2017. 

Note 6:    Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses   (continued) 

IMPAIRED LOANS        Table 6.15   summarizes key information for impaired loans. Our impaired loans predominantly include loans on nonaccrual status in the commercial portfolio segment and loans modified in a TDR, whether on accrual or nonaccrual status. These impaired loans generally have estimated losses which are included in the allowance for credit losses. We have impaired loans with no allowance for credit losses when loss content has been previously recognized through charge-offs and we do not anticipate additional charge-offs or losses, or certain  

loans are currently performing in accordance with their terms and for which no loss has been estimated. Impaired loans exclude PCI loans.   Table 6.15   includes trial modifications that totaled   $194 million   at   December 31, 2017  , and   $299 million   at   December 31, 2016  . 
  For additional information on our impaired loans and allowance for credit losses, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies). 

Table 6.15:      Impaired Loans Summary    

(1) 
    Excludes the unpaid principal balance for loans that have been fully charged off or otherwise have zero recorded investment. 
              (2) 
    Includes the recorded investment of   $1.4 billion   and   $1.5 billion   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively, of government insured/guaranteed loans that are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA and generally do not have an allowance. Impaired loans may also have limited, if any, allowance when the recorded investment of the loan approximates estimated net realizable value as a result of charge-offs prior to a TDR modification. 

Commitments to lend additional funds on loans whose terms have been modified in a TDR amounted to   $579 million   and   $403 million   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. 
  Table 6.16   provides the average recorded investment in impaired loans and the amount of interest income recognized on impaired loans by portfolio segment and class. 

Table 6.16:      Average Recorded Investment in Impaired Loans    

(1) 
    Includes interest recognized on accruing TDRs, interest recognized related to certain impaired loans which have an allowance calculated using discounting, and amortization of purchase accounting adjustments related to certain impaired loans.  
       
    TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs)      When, for economic or legal reasons related to a borrower s financial difficulties, we grant a concession for other than an insignificant period of time to a borrower that we would not otherwise consider, the related loan is classified as a TDR, the balance of which totaled   $17.8 billion   and   $20.8 billion   at December 31,   2017   and   2016  , respectively. We do not consider loan resolutions such as foreclosure or short sale to be a TDR. 
  We may require some consumer borrowers experiencing financial difficulty to make trial payments generally for a period of three to four months, according to the terms of a planned permanent modification, to determine if they can perform according to those terms. These arrangements represent trial modifications, which we classify and account for as TDRs. While loans are in trial payment programs, their original terms are not considered modified and they continue to advance through delinquency status and accrue interest according to their original terms.  

Table 6.17   summarizes our TDR modifications for the periods presented by primary modification type and includes the financial effects of these modifications. For those loans that modify more than once, the table reflects each modification that occurred during the period. Loans that both modify and pay off within the period, as well as changes in recorded investment during the period for loans modified in prior periods, are not included in the table. 

Note 6:    Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses   (continued) 

Table 6.17:      TDR Modifications    

(1) 
    Amounts represent the recorded investment in loans after recognizing the effects of the TDR, if any. TDRs may have multiple types of concessions, but are presented only once in the first modification type based on the order presented in the table above. The reported amounts include loans remodified of   $2.1 billion  ,   $1.6 billion   and   $2.1 billion  , for the years ended December 31,   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015  , respectively. 
              (2) 
    Principal modifications include principal forgiveness at the time of the modification, contingent principal forgiveness granted over the life of the loan based on borrower performance, and principal that has been legally separated and deferred to the end of the loan, with a zero percent contractual interest rate. 
              (3) 
    Other concessions include loans discharged in bankruptcy, loan renewals, term extensions and other interest and noninterest adjustments, but exclude modifications that also forgive principal and/or reduce the contractual interest rate.  
              (4) 
    Charge-offs include write-downs of the investment in the loan in the period it is contractually modified. The amount of charge-off will differ from the modification terms if the loan has been charged down prior to the modification based on our policies. In addition, there may be cases where we have a charge-off/down with no legal principal modification. Modifications resulted in legally forgiving principal (actual, contingent or deferred) of   $32 million  ,   $67 million   and   $100 million   for the years ended December 31,   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015  , respectively. 
              (5) 
    Reflects the effect of reduced interest rates on loans with an interest rate concession as one of their concession types, which includes loans reported as a principal primary modification type that also have an interest rate concession. 
              (6) 
    Trial modifications are granted a delay in payments due under the original terms during the trial payment period. However, these loans continue to advance through delinquency status and accrue interest according to their original terms. Any subsequent permanent modification generally includes interest rate related concessions; however, the exact concession type and resulting financial effect are usually not known until the loan is permanently modified. Trial modifications for the period are presented net of previously reported trial modifications that became permanent in the current period. 

Table 6.18   summarizes permanent modification TDRs that have defaulted in the current period within 12 months of their permanent modification date. We are reporting these defaulted TDRs based on a payment default definition of 90 days past due for the commercial portfolio segment and 60 days past due for the consumer portfolio segment. 

Table 6.18:      Defaulted TDRs    

Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans 
  Substantially all of our PCI loans were acquired from Wachovia on December 31, 2008, at which time we acquired commercial and consumer loans with a carrying value of   $18.7 billion   and   $40.1 billion  , respectively. The unpaid principal balance on December 31, 2008 was   $98.2 billion   for the total of commercial and consumer PCI loans.   Table 6.19   presents PCI loans net of any remaining purchase accounting adjustments. Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage PCI loans are predominantly Pick-a-Pay loans. 
    
  Table 6.19:      PCI Loans    

Note 6:    Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses   (continued) 

ACCRETABLE YIELD      The excess of cash flows expected to be 
   collected over the carrying value of PCI loans is referred to as the accretable yield and is recognized in interest income using an effective yield method over the remaining life of the loan, or pools of loans. The accretable yield is affected by: 
             
    changes in interest rate indices for variable rate PCI loans   expected future cash flows are based on the variable rates in effect at the time of the regular evaluations of cash flows expected to be collected; 
                
    changes in prepayment assumptions   prepayments affect the estimated life of PCI loans which may change the amount of interest income, and possibly principal, expected to be collected; and 
                
    changes in the expected principal and interest payments over the estimated life   updates to expected cash flows are driven by the credit outlook and actions taken with  

borrowers. Changes in expected future cash flows from loan modifications are included in the regular evaluations of cash flows expected to be collected. 
    
  The change in the accretable yield related to PCI loans since the merger with Wachovia is presented in   Table 6.20  . Changes during 2017 reflected an expectation, as a result of our quarterly evaluation of PCI cash flows, that prepayment of modified Pick-a-Pay loans will continue to increase over their estimated weighted-average life and that expected loss has decreased as a result of continued reductions in loan to value ratios and sustained higher housing prices. Changes during 2017 also reflect a   $309 million   gain on the sale of   $569 million   Pick-a-Pay PCI loans in second quarter 2017. 

Table 6.20:      Change in Accretable Yield    

(1) 
    Includes accretable yield released as a result of settlements with borrowers, which is included in interest income. 
              (2) 
    Includes accretable yield released as a result of sales to third parties, which is included in noninterest income. 
              (3) 
    Represents changes in cash flows expected to be collected due to the impact of modifications, changes in prepayment assumptions, changes in interest rates on variable rate PCI loans and sales to third parties. 
       
    COMMERCIAL PCI CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS             Table 6.21   provides a breakdown of commercial PCI loans by risk category. 

Table 6.21:     Commercial PCI Loans by Risk Category   

Table 6.22   provides past due information for commercial PCI loans. 

Table 6.22:      Commercial PCI Loans by Delinquency Status    

CONSUMER PCI CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS      Our consumer PCI loans were aggregated into several pools of loans at acquisition. Below, we have provided credit quality indicators based on the unpaid principal balance (adjusted for write- 

downs) of the individual loans included in the pool, but we have not allocated the remaining purchase accounting adjustments, which were established at a pool level.   Table 6.23   provides the delinquency status of consumer PCI loans. 

Table 6.23:      Consumer PCI Loans by Delinquency Status    

Note 6:    Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses   (continued) 

Table 6.24   provides FICO scores for consumer PCI loans.    
    
  Table 6.24:      Consumer PCI Loans by FICO    

Table 6.25   shows the distribution of consumer PCI loans by LTV for real estate 1-4 family first mortgages and by CLTV for real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgages. 

Table 6.25:      Consumer PCI Loans by LTV/CLTV    

(1) 
    Reflects total loan balances with LTV/CLTV amounts in excess of 100%. In the event of default, the loss content would generally be limited to only the amount in excess of 100% LTV/CLTV. 

Note 7:    Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets 

Table 7.1:      Premises and Equipment    

Depreciation and amortization expense for premises and equipment was   $1.2 billion   for the years   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  . 
  Dispositions of premises and equipment resulted in net gains of   $128 million  ,   $44 million   and   $75 million   in   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively, included in other noninterest expense. 
  We have obligations under a number of noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment. The leases predominantly expire over the next   fifteen   years, with the longest expiring in   2105  , and many provide for periodic adjustment of rentals based on changes in various economic indicators. Some leases also include a renewal option.   Table 7.2   provides the future minimum payments of noncancelable operating leases, net of sublease income, with terms greater than one year as of   December 31, 2017  . 
  Table 7.2:      Minimum Lease Payments of Operating Leases    

Total minimum lease payments for operating leases above are net of   $469 million   of noncancelable sublease income. Operating lease rental expense (predominantly for premises) was   $1.3 billion   for the years   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , net of sublease income of   $76 million  ,   $86 million   and   $103 million   for the same years, respectively. 

Table 7.3   presents the components of other assets. 
  Table 7.3:      Other Assets    

(1) 
    Represents low income housing tax credit investments. 
              (2) 
    Represents nonmarketable equity investments for which we have elected the fair value option. See Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) for additional information. 
              (3) 
    Certain government-guaranteed residential real estate mortgage loans upon foreclosure are included in Accounts receivable. Both principal and interest related to these foreclosed real estate assets are collectible because the loans were predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA. For more information on the classification of certain government-guaranteed mortgage loans upon foreclosure, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies). 

Note 7:    Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets   (continued) 

Table 7.4   presents income (expense) related to nonmarketable equity investments. 
  Table 7.4:      Nonmarketable Equity Investments    

Low Income Housing Tax Credit Investments    We invest in affordable housing projects that qualify for the low income housing tax credit (LIHTC), which is designed to promote private development of low income housing. These investments generate a return primarily through realization of federal tax credits. 

Total LIHTC investments were   $10.3 billion   and   $9.7 billion   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. In   2017  , we recognized pre-tax losses of   $1.2 billion   related to our LIHTC investments, compared with   $816 million   in   2016  . We also recognized total tax benefits of   $1.5 billion   in   2017  , which included tax credits recorded in income taxes of   $1.1 billion  . In   2016  , total tax benefits were   $1.2 billion  , which included tax credits of   $939 million  . We are periodically required to provide additional financial support during the investment period. Our liability for these unfunded commitments was   $3.6 billion   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  . Predominantly all of this liability is expected to be paid over the next   three   years. This liability is included in long-term debt. 

Note 8:    Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities  

Involvement with SPEs 
  In the normal course of business, we enter into various types of on- and off-balance sheet transactions with SPEs, which are corporations, trusts, limited liability companies or partnerships that are established for a limited purpose. Generally, SPEs are formed in connection with securitization transactions. In a securitization transaction, assets are transferred to an SPE, which then issues to investors various forms of interests in those assets and may also enter into derivative transactions. In a securitization transaction where we transferred assets from our balance sheet, we typically receive cash and/or other interests in an SPE as proceeds for the assets we transfer. Also, in certain transactions, we may retain the right to service the transferred receivables and to repurchase those receivables from the SPE if the outstanding balance of the receivables falls to a level where the cost exceeds the benefits of servicing such receivables. In addition, we may purchase the right to service loans in an SPE that were transferred to the SPE by a third party. 
  In connection with our securitization activities, we have various forms of ongoing involvement with SPEs, which may include: 
             
    underwriting securities issued by SPEs and subsequently making markets in those securities; 
                
    providing liquidity facilities to support short-term obligations of SPEs issued to third party investors; 
                
    providing credit enhancement on securities issued by SPEs or market value guarantees of assets held by SPEs through the use of letters of credit, financial guarantees, credit default swaps and total return swaps; 
                
    entering into other derivative contracts with SPEs; 
                
    holding senior or subordinated interests in SPEs; 
                
    acting as servicer or investment manager for SPEs; and 
                
    providing administrative or trustee services to SPEs. 

SPEs formed in connection with securitization transactions are generally considered variable interest entities (VIEs). SPEs formed for other corporate purposes may be VIEs as well. A VIE is an entity that has either a total equity investment that is insufficient to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support or whose equity investors lack the ability to control the entity s activities or lack the ability to receive expected benefits or absorb obligations in a manner that s consistent with their investment in the entity. A VIE is consolidated by its primary beneficiary, the party that has both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE and a variable interest that could potentially be significant to the VIE. A variable interest is a contractual, ownership or other interest whose value changes with changes in the fair value of the VIE s net assets. To determine whether or not a variable interest we hold could potentially be significant to the VIE, we consider both qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the nature, size and form of our involvement with the VIE. We assess whether or not we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE on an on-going basis. 
  We have segregated our involvement with VIEs between those VIEs which we consolidate, those which we do not consolidate and those for which we account for the transfers of financial assets as secured borrowings. Secured borrowings are transactions involving transfers of our financial assets to third parties that are accounted for as financings with the assets pledged as collateral. Accordingly, the transferred assets remain recognized on our balance sheet. Subsequent tables within this Note further segregate these transactions by structure type. 

Note 8:    Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities   (continued) 

Table 8.1   provides the classifications of assets and liabilities in our balance sheet for our transactions with VIEs.   

Table 8.1:      Balance Sheet Transactions with VIEs    

(1) 
    Excludes certain debt securities related to loans serviced for the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and GNMA. 
              (2) 
    There were   no   VIE liabilities with recourse to the general credit of Wells Fargo for the periods presented. 
       
    Transactions with Unconsolidated VIEs 
  Our transactions with unconsolidated VIEs include securitizations of residential mortgage loans, CRE loans, student loans, automobile loans and leases, certain dealer floorplan loans; investment and financing activities involving collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) backed by asset-backed and CRE securities, tax credit structures, collateralized loan obligations (CLOs) backed by corporate loans, and other types of structured financing. We have various forms of involvement with VIEs, including servicing, holding senior or subordinated interests, entering into liquidity arrangements, credit default swaps and other derivative contracts. Involvements with these unconsolidated VIEs are recorded on our balance sheet in  

trading assets, investment securities, loans, MSRs, derivative assets and liabilities, other assets, other liabilities, and long-term debt, as appropriate. 
  Table 8.2   provides a summary of unconsolidated VIEs with which we have significant continuing involvement, but we are not the primary beneficiary. We do not consider our continuing involvement in an unconsolidated VIE to be significant when it relates to third-party sponsored VIEs for which we were not the transferor (unless we are servicer and have other significant forms of involvement) or if we were the sponsor only or sponsor and servicer but do not have any other forms of significant involvement. 

Significant continuing involvement includes transactions where we were the sponsor or transferor and have other significant forms of involvement. Sponsorship includes transactions with unconsolidated VIEs where we solely or materially participated in the initial design or structuring of the entity or marketing of the transaction to investors. When we transfer assets to a VIE and account for the transfer as a sale, we are considered the transferor. We consider investments in securities (other than those held temporarily in trading), loans, guarantees, liquidity agreements, written options and servicing of collateral to be other forms of involvement that may be  

significant. We have excluded certain transactions with unconsolidated VIEs from the balances presented in the following table where we have determined that our continuing involvement is not significant due to the temporary nature and size of our variable interests, because we were not the transferor or because we were not involved in the design of the unconsolidated VIEs. We also exclude from the table secured borrowing transactions with unconsolidated VIEs (for information on these transactions, see the Transactions with Consolidated VIEs and Secured Borrowings section in this Note). 

Table 8.2:      Unconsolidated VIEs    

(continued on following page) 

Note 8:    Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities   (continued) 

(continued from previous page) 

(1) 
    Includes total equity interests of   $10.7 billion   and   $10.3 billion   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. Also includes debt interests in the form of both loans and securities. Excludes certain debt securities held related to loans serviced for FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA. 
              (2) 
    Excludes assets and related liabilities with a recorded carrying value on our balance sheet of   $2.2 billion   and   $1.2 billion   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively, for certain delinquent loans that are eligible for repurchase from GNMA loan securitizations. The recorded carrying value represents the amount that would be payable if the Company was to exercise the repurchase option. The carrying amounts are excluded from the table because the loans eligible for repurchase do not represent interests in the VIEs.  
              (3) 
    Represents senior loans to trusts that are collateralized by asset-backed securities. The trusts invest predominantly in senior tranches from a diversified pool of U.S. asset securitizations, of which all are current and   100%   were rated as investment grade by the primary rating agencies at both   December 31, 2017   and   2016  . These senior loans are accounted for at amortized cost and are subject to the Company s allowance and credit charge-off policies. 
              (4) 
    Includes structured financing and credit-linked note structures. Also contains investments in auction rate securities (ARS) issued by VIEs that we do not sponsor and, accordingly, are unable to obtain the total assets of the entity. 
       
    In Table 8.2,  Total VIE assets  represents the remaining principal balance of assets held by unconsolidated VIEs using the most current information available. For VIEs that obtain exposure to assets synthetically through derivative instruments, the remaining notional amount of the derivative is included in the asset balance.  Carrying value  is the amount in our consolidated balance sheet related to our involvement with the unconsolidated VIEs.  Maximum exposure to loss  from our involvement with off-balance sheet entities, which is a required disclosure under GAAP, is determined as the carrying value of our involvement with off-balance sheet (unconsolidated) VIEs plus the remaining undrawn liquidity and lending commitments, the notional amount of net written derivative contracts, and generally the notional amount of, or stressed loss estimate for, other commitments and guarantees. It represents estimated loss  

that would be incurred under severe, hypothetical circumstances, for which we believe the possibility is extremely remote, such as where the value of our interests and any associated collateral declines to zero, without any consideration of recovery or offset from any economic hedges. Accordingly, this required disclosure is not an indication of expected loss. 
    
  RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOANS      Residential mortgage loan securitizations are financed through the issuance of fixed-rate or floating-rate asset-backed securities, which are collateralized by the loans transferred to a VIE. We typically transfer loans we originated to these VIEs, account for the transfers as sales, retain the right to service the loans and may hold other beneficial interests issued by the VIEs. We also may be exposed to limited liability related to recourse agreements and repurchase  

agreements we make to our issuers and purchasers, which are included in other commitments and guarantees. In certain instances, we may service residential mortgage loan securitizations structured by third parties whose loans we did not originate or transfer. Our residential mortgage loan securitizations consist of conforming and nonconforming securitizations. 
  Conforming residential mortgage loan securitizations are those that are guaranteed by the GSEs, including GNMA. Because of the power of the GSEs over the VIEs that hold the assets from these conforming residential mortgage loan securitizations, we do not consolidate them. 
  The loans sold to the VIEs in nonconforming residential mortgage loan securitizations are those that do not qualify for a GSE guarantee. We may hold variable interests issued by the VIEs, including senior securities. We do not consolidate the nonconforming residential mortgage loan securitizations included in the table because we either do not hold any variable interests, hold variable interests that we do not consider potentially significant or are not the primary servicer for a majority of the VIE assets. 
  Other commitments and guarantees include amounts related to loans sold that we may be required to repurchase, or otherwise indemnify or reimburse the investor or insurer for losses incurred, due to material breach of contractual representations and warranties as well as other retained recourse arrangements. The maximum exposure to loss for material breach of contractual representations and warranties represents a stressed case estimate we utilize for determining stressed case regulatory capital needs and is considered to be a remote scenario. 
    
  COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOAN SECURITIZATIONS    Commercial mortgage loan securitizations are financed through the issuance of fixed or floating-rate asset-backed securities, which are collateralized by the loans transferred to the VIE. In a typical securitization, we may transfer loans we originate to these VIEs, account for the transfers as sales, retain the right to service the loans and may hold other beneficial interests issued by the VIEs. In certain instances, we may service commercial mortgage loan securitizations structured by third parties whose loans we did not originate or transfer. We typically serve as primary or master servicer of these VIEs. The primary or master servicer in a commercial mortgage loan securitization typically cannot make the most significant decisions impacting the performance of the VIE and therefore does not have power over the VIE. We do not consolidate the commercial mortgage loan securitizations included in the disclosure because we either do not have power or do not have a variable interest that could potentially be significant to the VIE. 
    
  COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (CDOs)      A CDO is a securitization where a VIE purchases a pool of assets consisting of asset-backed securities and issues multiple tranches of equity or notes to investors. In some CDOs, a portion of the assets are obtained synthetically through the use of derivatives such as credit default swaps or total return swaps. 
  In addition to our role as arranger, we may have other forms of involvement with these CDOs. Such involvement may include acting as liquidity provider, derivative counterparty, secondary market maker or investor. For certain CDOs, we may also act as the collateral manager or servicer. We receive fees in connection with our role as collateral manager or servicer. 
  We assess whether we are the primary beneficiary of CDOs based on our role in them in combination with the variable  

interests we hold. Subsequently, we monitor our ongoing involvement to determine if the nature of our involvement has changed. We are not the primary beneficiary of these CDOs in most cases because we do not act as the collateral manager or servicer, which generally denotes power. In cases where we are the collateral manager or servicer, we are not the primary beneficiary because we do not hold interests that could potentially be significant to the VIE. 
    
  COLLATERALIZED LOAN OBLIGATIONS (CLOs)      A CLO is a securitization where an SPE purchases a pool of assets consisting of loans and issues multiple tranches of equity or notes to investors. Generally, CLOs are structured on behalf of a third party asset manager that typically selects and manages the assets for the term of the CLO. Typically, the asset manager has the power over the significant decisions of the VIE through its discretion to manage the assets of the CLO. We assess whether we are the primary beneficiary of CLOs based on our role in them and the variable interests we hold. In most cases, we are not the primary beneficiary because we do not have the power to manage the collateral in the VIE. 
  In addition to our role as arranger, we may have other forms of involvement with these CLOs. Such involvement may include acting as underwriter, derivative counterparty, secondary market maker or investor. For certain CLOs, we may also act as the servicer, for which we receive fees in connection with that role. We also earn fees for arranging these CLOs and distributing the securities. 
    
  ASSET-BASED FINANCE STRUCTURES      We engage in various forms of structured finance arrangements with VIEs that are collateralized by various asset classes including energy contracts, automobile and other transportation loans and leases, intellectual property, equipment and general corporate credit. We typically provide senior financing, and may act as an interest rate swap or commodity derivative counterparty when necessary. In most cases, we are not the primary beneficiary of these structures because we do not have power over the significant activities of the VIEs involved in them. 
  For example, we have investments in asset-backed securities that are collateralized by automobile leases or loans and cash. These fixed-rate and variable-rate securities have been structured as single-tranche, fully amortizing, unrated bonds that are equivalent to investment-grade securities due to their significant overcollateralization. The securities are issued by VIEs that have been formed by third party automobile financing institutions primarily because they require a source of liquidity to fund ongoing vehicle sales operations. The third party automobile financing institutions manage the collateral in the VIEs, which is indicative of power in them and we therefore do not consolidate these VIEs. 
    
  TAX CREDIT STRUCTURES      We co-sponsor and make investments in affordable housing and sustainable energy projects that are designed to generate a return primarily through the realization of federal tax credits. In some instances, our investments in these structures may require that we fund future capital commitments at the discretion of the project sponsors. While the size of our investment in a single entity may at times exceed 50% of the outstanding equity interests, we do not consolidate these structures due to the project sponsor s ability to manage the projects, which is indicative of power in them. 

Note 8:    Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities   (continued) 

INVESTMENT FUNDS      Subsequent to adopting ASU 2015-02 (  Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis  ) in first quarter 2016, we do not consolidate these investment funds because we do not hold variable interests that are considered significant to the funds. 
  We voluntarily waived a portion of our management fees for certain money market funds that are exempt from the consolidation analysis to ensure the funds maintained a minimum level of daily net investment income. The amount of fees waived in   2017   and   2016   was   $53 million   and   $109 million  , respectively.  
    
  OTHER TRANSACTIONS WITH VIEs    Other VIEs include certain entities that issue auction rate securities (ARS) which are debt instruments with long-term maturities, that re-price more frequently, and preferred equities with no maturity. At   December 31, 2017  , we held   $400 million   of ARS issued by VIEs compared with   $453 million   at   December 31, 2016  . We acquired the ARS pursuant to agreements entered into in 2008 and 2009. 
  We do not consolidate the VIEs that issued the ARS because we do not have power over the activities of the VIEs. 
    
  TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES        VIEs that we wholly own issue debt securities or preferred equity to third party investors. All of the proceeds of the issuance are invested in debt securities or preferred equity that we issue to the VIEs. The VIEs  operations and cash flows relate only to the issuance, administration and repayment of the securities held by third parties. We do not consolidate these VIEs because the sole assets of the VIEs are receivables from us, even though we own all of  

the voting equity shares of the VIEs, have fully guaranteed the obligations of the VIEs and may have the right to redeem the third party securities under certain circumstances. In our consolidated balance sheet at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , we reported the debt securities issued to the VIEs as long-term junior subordinated debt with a carrying value of   $2.0 billion   and   $2.1 billion  , respectively, and the preferred equity securities issued to the VIEs as preferred stock with a carrying value of   $2.5 billion   at both dates. These amounts are in addition to the involvements in these VIEs included in the preceding table. 
  In 2017, we redeemed   $150 million   of trust preferred securities which were partially included in Tier 2 capital (50% credit in 2017) in the transitional framework and were not included under the fully-phased framework under the Basel III standards. 
    
  Loan Sales and Securitization Activity 
  We periodically transfer consumer and CRE loans and other types of financial assets in securitization and whole loan sale transactions. We typically retain the servicing rights from these sales and may continue to hold other beneficial interests in the transferred financial assets. We may also provide liquidity to investors in the beneficial interests and credit enhancements in the form of standby letters of credit. Through these transfers we may be exposed to liability under limited amounts of recourse as well as standard representations and warranties we make to purchasers and issuers.   Table 8.3   presents the cash flows for our transfers accounted for as sales. 

Table 8.3:      Cash Flows From Sales and Securitization Activity    

(1) 
    Cash flows from other interests held include principal and interest payments received on retained bonds and excess cash flows received on interest-only strips. 
              (2) 
    Consists of cash paid to repurchase loans from investors and cash paid to investors to reimburse them for losses on individual loans that are already liquidated. In addition, during   2017  , we paid   nothing   to third-party investors to settle repurchase liabilities on pools of loans, compared with   $11 million   and   $19 million   in   2016   and   2015  , respectively. 
              (3) 
    Represent loans repurchased from GNMA, FNMA, and FHLMC under representation and warranty provisions included in our loan sales contracts. Excludes   $8.6 billion   in delinquent insured/guaranteed loans that we service and have exercised our option to purchase out of GNMA pools in   2017  , compared with   $9.9 billion   and   $11.3 billion   in   2016   and   2015  , respectively. These loans are predominantly insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA. 

In   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015  , we recognized net gains of   $701 million  ,   $524 million   and   $506 million  , respectively, from transfers accounted for as sales of financial assets. These net gains primarily relate to commercial mortgage securitizations and residential mortgage securitizations where the loans were not already carried at fair value. 
  Sales with continuing involvement during   2017  ,   2016   and   2015   largely related to securitizations of residential mortgages that are sold to the government-sponsored entities (GSEs), including FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA (conforming residential mortgage securitizations). During   2017  ,   2016   and   2015   we transferred   $213.6 billion  ,   $236.6 billion   and   $186.6 billion  , respectively, in fair value of residential mortgages to unconsolidated VIEs and third-party investors and recorded the transfers as sales. Substantially all of these transfers did not result in a gain or loss because the loans were already carried at fair value. In connection with all of these transfers, in   2017   we recorded a   $2.1 billion   servicing asset, measured at fair value using a Level 3 measurement technique, securities of   $1.4 billion  , classified as Level 2, and a   $24 million   liability for repurchase losses which reflects management s estimate of probable losses related to various representations and warranties for the loans transferred, initially measured at fair value. In   2016  , we recorded a   $2.1 billion   servicing asset, securities of   $4.4 billion   and a   $36 million   liability. In   2015  , we recorded a   $1.6 billion   servicing asset, securities of   $1.9 billion   and a   $43 million   liability. 
  Table 8.4   presents the key weighted-average assumptions we used to measure residential mortgage servicing rights at the date of securitization. 
    
  Table 8.4:      Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights    

(1) 
    The prepayment speed assumption for residential mortgage servicing rights includes a blend of prepayment speeds and default rates. Prepayment speed assumptions are influenced by mortgage interest rate inputs as well as our estimation of drivers of borrower behavior. 
              (2) 
    Includes costs to service and unreimbursed foreclosure costs, which can vary period to period depending on the mix of modified government-guaranteed loans sold to GNMA. 

During   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , we transferred   $16.7 billion  ,   $18.3 billion   and   $17.3 billion  , respectively, in carrying value of commercial mortgages to unconsolidated VIEs and third-party investors and recorded the transfers as sales. These transfers resulted in gains of   $359 million   in   2017  ,   $429 million   in   2016   and   $338 million   in   2015  , respectively, because the loans were carried at lower of cost or market value (LOCOM). In connection with these transfers, in   2017   we recorded a servicing asset of   $166 million  , initially measured at fair value using a Level 3 measurement technique, and securities of   $65 million  , classified as Level 2. In   2016  , we recorded a servicing asset of   $270 million   and securities of   $258 million  . In   2015  , we recorded a servicing asset of   $180 million   and securities of   $241 million  . 
    
  Retained Interests from Unconsolidated VIEs 
  Table 8.5   provides key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of the current fair value of residential mortgage servicing rights and other interests held to immediate adverse changes in those assumptions.  Other interests held  relate to residential and commercial mortgage loan securitizations. Residential mortgage-backed securities retained in securitizations issued through GSEs, such as FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA, are excluded from the table because these securities have a remote risk of credit loss due to the GSE guarantee. These securities also have economic characteristics similar to GSE mortgage-backed securities that we purchase, which are not included in the table. Subordinated interests include only those bonds whose credit rating was below AAA by a major rating agency at issuance. Senior interests include only those bonds whose credit rating was AAA by a major rating agency at issuance. The information presented excludes trading positions held in inventory. 

Note 8:    Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities   (continued) 

Table 8.5:      Retained Interests from Unconsolidated VIEs    

(1) 
    See narrative following this table for a discussion of commercial mortgage servicing rights. 
              (2) 
    Prepayment speed assumptions do not significantly impact the value of commercial mortgage securitization bonds as the underlying commercial mortgage loans experience significantly lower prepayments due to certain contractual restrictions, impacting the borrower s ability to prepay the mortgage. 
              (3) 
    The prepayment speed assumption for residential mortgage servicing rights includes a blend of prepayment speeds and default rates. Prepayment speed assumptions are influenced by mortgage interest rate inputs as well as our estimation of drivers of borrower behavior. 

In addition to residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) included in the previous table, we have a small portfolio of commercial MSRs with a fair value of   $2.0 billion   at both   December 31, 2017   and   2016  . The nature of our commercial MSRs, which are carried at LOCOM, is different from our residential MSRs. Prepayment activity on serviced loans does not significantly impact the value of commercial MSRs because, unlike residential mortgages, commercial mortgages experience significantly lower prepayments due to certain contractual restrictions, impacting the borrower s ability to prepay the mortgage. Additionally, for our commercial MSR portfolio, we are typically master/primary servicer, but not the special servicer, who is separately responsible for the servicing and workout of delinquent and foreclosed loans. It is the special servicer, similar to our role as servicer of residential mortgage loans, who is affected by higher servicing and foreclosure costs due to an increase in delinquent and foreclosed loans. Accordingly, prepayment speeds and costs to service are not key assumptions for commercial MSRs as they do not significantly impact the valuation. The primary economic driver impacting the fair value of our commercial MSRs is forward interest rates, which are derived from market observable yield curves used to price capital markets instruments. Market interest rates significantly affect interest earned on custodial deposit balances. The sensitivity of the current fair value to an immediate adverse   25%   change in the assumption about interest earned on deposit balances at   December 31, 2017  , and   2016  , results in a decrease in fair value of   $278 million   and   $259 million  , respectively. See Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) for further information on our commercial MSRs. 
  We also have a loan to an unconsolidated third party VIE that we extended in fourth quarter 2014 in conjunction with our sale of government guaranteed student loans. The loan is carried at amortized cost and approximates fair value at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  . The carrying amount of the loan at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , was   $1.3 billion   and   $3.2 billion  , respectively. The estimated fair value of the loan is considered a Level 3 measurement that is determined using discounted cash flows  

that are based on changes in the discount rate due to changes in the risk premium component (credit spreads). The primary economic assumption impacting the fair value of our loan is the discount rate. Changes in the credit loss assumption are not expected to affect the estimated fair value of the loan due to the government guarantee of the underlying collateral. The sensitivity of the current fair value to an immediate adverse increase of 200 basis points in the risk premium component of the discount rate assumption is a decrease in fair value of   $25 million   and   $154 million   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. 
  The sensitivities in the preceding paragraphs and table are hypothetical and caution should be exercised when relying on this data. Changes in value based on variations in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in the assumption to the change in value may not be linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the value of the other interests held is calculated independently without changing any other assumptions. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in others (for example, changes in prepayment speed estimates could result in changes in the credit losses), which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities. 
    
  Off-Balance Sheet Loans 
  Table 8.6   presents information about the principal balances of off-balance sheet loans that were sold or securitized, including residential mortgage loans sold to FNMA, FHLMC, GNMA and other investors, for which we have some form of continuing involvement (including servicer). Delinquent loans include loans 90 days or more past due and loans in bankruptcy, regardless of delinquency status. For loans sold or securitized where servicing is our only form of continuing involvement, we would only experience a loss if we were required to repurchase a delinquent loan or foreclosed asset due to a breach in representations and warranties associated with our loan sale or servicing contracts. 

Table 8.6:      Off-Balance Sheet Loans Sold or Securitized    

(2) 
    At   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , the table includes total loans of   $1.1 trillion   and   $1.2 trillion  , delinquent loans of   $9.1 billion   and   $9.8 billion  , and foreclosed assets of   $619 million   and   $1.3 billion  , respectively, for FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA. Net charge-offs exclude loans sold to FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA as we do not service or manage the underlying real estate upon foreclosure and, as such, do not have access to net charge-off information. 

Note 8:    Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities   (continued) 

Transactions with Consolidated VIEs and Secured Borrowings 
  Table 8.7   presents a summary of financial assets and liabilities for asset transfers accounted for as secured borrowings and involvements with consolidated VIEs. Carrying values of  Assets  are presented using GAAP measurement methods, which may include fair value, credit impairment or other  

adjustments, and therefore in some instances will differ from  Total VIE assets.  For VIEs that obtain exposure synthetically through derivative instruments, the remaining notional amount of the derivative is included in  Total VIE assets.  On the consolidated balance sheet, we separately disclose the consolidated assets of certain VIEs that can only be used to settle the liabilities of those VIEs. 

Table 8.7:      Transactions with Consolidated VIEs and Secured Borrowings    

In addition to the structure types included in the previous table, at   December 31, 2016  , we had approximately   $6.0 billion   of private placement debt financing issued through a consolidated VIE. The issuance was classified as long-term debt in our consolidated financial statements. At   December 31, 2016  , we pledged approximately   $434 million   in loans (principal and interest eligible to be capitalized), and   $6.1 billion   in available-for-sale securities to collateralize the VIE s borrowings. These assets were not transferred to the VIE, and accordingly, we have excluded the VIE from the previous table. During   2017  , the private placement debt financing was repaid, and the entity was no longer considered a VIE. 
  We have raised financing through the securitization of certain financial assets in transactions with VIEs accounted for as secured borrowings. We also consolidate VIEs where we are the primary beneficiary. In certain transactions, we provide contractual support in the form of limited recourse and liquidity to facilitate the remarketing of short-term securities issued to third party investors. Other than this limited contractual  

support, the assets of the VIEs are the sole source of repayment of the securities held by third parties. 
    
  MUNICIPAL TENDER OPTION BOND SECURITIZATIONS        As part of our normal investment portfolio activities, we consolidate municipal bond trusts that hold highly rated, long-term, fixed-rate municipal bonds, the majority of which are rated AA or better. Our residual interests in these trusts generally allow us to capture the economics of owning the securities outright, and constructively make decisions that significantly impact the economic performance of the municipal bond vehicle, primarily by directing the sale of the municipal bonds owned by the vehicle. In addition, the residual interest owners have the right to receive benefits and bear losses that are proportional to owning the underlying municipal bonds in the trusts. The trusts obtain financing by issuing floating-rate trust certificates that reprice on a weekly or other basis to third-party investors. Under certain conditions, if we elect to terminate the trusts and withdraw the underlying assets, the third party investors are  

entitled to a small portion of any unrealized gain on the underlying assets. We may serve as remarketing agent and/or liquidity provider for the trusts. The floating-rate investors have the right to tender the certificates at specified dates, often with as little as   seven   days  notice. Should we be unable to remarket the tendered certificates, we are generally obligated to purchase them at par under standby liquidity facilities unless the bond s credit rating has declined below investment grade or there has been an event of default or bankruptcy of the issuer and insurer. 
    
  COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOANS AND LEASES    In conjunction with the GE Capital business acquisitions, on March 1, 2016, we acquired certain consolidated SPE entities. The most significant of these SPEs is a revolving master trust entity that purchases dealer floorplan loans and issues senior and subordinated notes. The senior notes are held by third parties and the subordinated notes and residual equity interests are held by us. At   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , total assets held by the master trust were   $7.6 billion   and   $7.5 billion  , respectively, and the outstanding senior notes were   $773 million   and   $2.7 billion  , respectively. The other SPEs acquired include securitization term trust entities, which purchase vendor finance lease and loan assets and issue notes to investors, and an SPE that engages in leasing activities to specific vendors. As of December 31, 2016, all outstanding third party debt of the securitization term trust entities was repaid in accordance with the agreements, and the remaining assets were repurchased by Wells Fargo. The securitization term trusts were dissolved during 2017. The remaining other SPE held   $1.4 billion   and   $1.2 billion   in total assets at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. We are the primary beneficiary of these acquired SPEs due to our ability to direct the significant activities of the SPEs, such as our role as servicer, and because we hold variable interests that are considered significant.  

NONCONFORMING RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOAN SECURITIZATIONS    We have consolidated certain of our nonconforming residential mortgage loan securitizations in accordance with consolidation accounting guidance. We have determined we are the primary beneficiary of these securitizations because we have the power to direct the most significant activities of the entity through our role as primary servicer and also hold variable interests that we have determined to be significant. The nature of our variable interests in these entities may include beneficial interests issued by the VIE, mortgage servicing rights and recourse or repurchase reserve liabilities. The beneficial interests issued by the VIE that we hold include either subordinate or senior securities held in an amount that we consider potentially significant. 
    
  INVESTMENT FUNDS    Subsequent to adopting ASU 2015-02 (  Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis  ) in first quarter 2016, we consolidate certain investment funds because we have both the power to manage fund assets and hold variable interests that are considered significant. 

Note 9:    Mortgage Banking Activities    (continued) 

Note 9:    Mortgage Banking Activities  

Mortgage banking activities, included in the Community Banking and Wholesale Banking operating segments, consist of residential and commercial mortgage originations, sale activity and servicing. 

We apply the amortization method to commercial MSRs and apply the fair value method to residential MSRs.   Table 9.1   presents the changes in MSRs measured using the fair value method. 

Table 9.1:      Analysis of Changes in Fair Value MSRs    

(1) 
    Includes impacts associated with exercising our right to repurchase delinquent loans from GNMA loan securitization pools. 
              (2) 
    Includes sales and transfers of MSRs, which can result in an increase of total reported MSRs if the sales or transfers are related to nonperforming loan portfolios or portfolios with servicing liabilities. 
              (3) 
    Includes prepayment speed changes as well as other valuation changes due to changes in mortgage interest rates (such as changes in estimated interest earned on custodial deposit balances). 
              (4) 
    Includes costs to service and unreimbursed foreclosure costs. 
              (5) 
    Reflects discount rate assumption change, excluding portion attributable to changes in mortgage interest rates. 
              (6) 
    Represents changes driven by other valuation model inputs or assumptions including prepayment speed estimation changes and other assumption updates. Prepayment speed estimation changes are influenced by observed changes in borrower behavior and other external factors that occur independent of interest rate changes. 
     Table 9.2   presents the changes in amortized MSRs. 
    
  Table 9.2:      Analysis of Changes in Amortized MSRs    

(1) 
    Commercial amortized MSRs are evaluated for impairment purposes by the following risk strata: agency (GSEs) for multi-family properties and non-agency. There was no valuation allowance recorded for the periods presented on the commercial amortized MSRs. 

We present the components of our managed servicing portfolio in   Table 9.3   at unpaid principal balance for loans serviced and subserviced for others and at book value for owned loans serviced.  

Table 9.3:      Managed Servicing Portfolio    

Table 9.4   presents the components of mortgage banking noninterest income.  

Table 9.4:      Mortgage Banking Noninterest Income    

(1) 
    Includes costs associated with foreclosures, unreimbursed interest advances to investors, and other interest costs. 
              (2) 
    Refer to the analysis of changes in fair value MSRs presented in Table 9.1 in this Note for more detail. 
              (3) 
    Represents results from economic hedges used to hedge the risk of changes in fair value of MSRs. See Note 16 (Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments) for additional discussion and detail. 

Note 9:    Mortgage Banking Activities    (continued) 

Table 9.5   summarizes the changes in our liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses. This liability is in  Accrued expenses and other liabilities  in our consolidated balance sheet and adjustments to the repurchase liability are recorded in net gains on mortgage loan origination/sales activities in  Mortgage banking  in our consolidated income statement. Because the level of mortgage loan repurchase losses depends upon economic factors, investor demand strategies and other external conditions that may change over the life of the underlying loans, the level of the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses is difficult to estimate and requires considerable management judgment. We maintain regular contact with the GSEs, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), and other significant investors to monitor their repurchase demand practices and issues as part of our process to update our repurchase liability estimate as new information becomes available.  
  Because of the uncertainty in the various estimates underlying the mortgage repurchase liability, there is a range of losses in excess of the recorded mortgage repurchase liability that is reasonably possible. The estimate of the range of possible loss for representations and warranties does not represent a probable loss, and is based on currently available information, significant judgment, and a number of assumptions that are subject to change. The high end of this range of reasonably possible losses exceeded our recorded liability by   $136 million   at   December 31, 2017  , and was determined based upon modifying the assumptions (particularly to assume significant changes in investor repurchase demand practices) used in our best estimate of probable loss to reflect what we believe to be the high end of reasonably possible adverse assumptions.  

Table 9.5:      Analysis of Changes in Liability for Mortgage Loan Repurchase Losses    

(1) 
    Represents repurchase liability associated with portfolio of loans underlying mortgage servicing rights acquired during the period. 
              (2) 
    Results from changes in investor demand and mortgage insurer practices, credit deterioration and changes in the financial stability of correspondent lenders. 

Note 10:    Intangible Assets 

Table 10.1   presents the gross carrying value of intangible assets and accumulated amortization. 

Table 10.1:      Intangible Assets    

(1) 
    Excludes fully amortized intangible assets. 
              (2) 
    See Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) for additional information on MSRs. 
       
    Table 10.2   provides the current year and estimated future amortization expense for amortized intangible assets. We based our projections of amortization expense shown below on existing  

asset balances at   December 31, 2017  . Future amortization expense may vary from these projections. 

Table 10.2:      Amortization Expense for Intangible Assets    

Note 10:    Intangible Assets    (continued) 

Table 10.3   shows the allocation of goodwill to our reportable operating segments. 

Table 10.3:      Goodwill    

(1) 
    Goodwill reclassified to held-for-sale in other assets of   $13 million   for the   year ended December 31, 2017  , relates to the sales agreement for Wells Fargo Shareowner Services.   No   goodwill was classified as held-for-sale in other assets at   December 31, 2016   and   2015  . 
       We assess goodwill for impairment at a reporting unit level, which is one level below the operating segments. Our goodwill was not impaired at December 31,   2017   and   2016  . The fair values exceeded the carrying amount of our respective reporting units by approximately   32%   to   635%   at   December 31, 2017  . See Note 25 (Operating Segments) for further information on management reporting.  

Table 11.1   presents a summary of the time certificates of deposit (CDs) and other time deposits issued by domestic and foreign offices. 
    
  Table 11.1:      Time Certificates of Deposits and Other Time Deposits 

Substantially all CDs and other time deposits issued by domestic and foreign offices were interest bearing and a significant portion of our foreign time deposits with a denomination of $100,000 or more have maturities of less than 7 days. 
  The contractual maturities of these deposits are presented in   Table 11.2  . 
    
  Table 11.2:      Contractual Maturities of CDs and Other Time Deposits    

The contractual maturities of the domestic time deposits with a denomination of $100,000 or more are presented in   Table 11.3  .  
    
  Table 11.3:      Contractual Maturities of Domestic Time Deposits    

Demand deposit overdrafts of   $371 million   and   $548 million   were included as loan balances at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. 

Note 12:    Short-Term Borrowings 

Table 12.1   shows selected information for short-term borrowings, which generally mature in less than   30 days  . We pledge certain financial instruments that we own to collateralize repurchase agreements and other securities financings. For  

additional information, see the  Pledged Assets  section of Note 14 (Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral, and Other Commitments). 

Table 12.1:      Short-Term Borrowings    

N/A- Not applicable 
           (1) 
    Negative other short-term borrowings rate in 2015 is a result of increased customer demand for certain securities in stock loan transactions combined with the impact of low interest rates. 

We issue long-term debt denominated in multiple currencies, largely in U.S. dollars. Our issuances have both fixed and floating interest rates. As a part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy, we often use derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate risk. We also use derivatives to manage our exposure to foreign currency risk. As a result, a majority of the long-term debt presented below is hedged in a fair value or cash flow hedge relationship. See Note 16 (Derivatives) for further information on qualifying hedge contracts. 

Table 13.1   presents a summary of our long-term debt carrying values, reflecting unamortized debt discounts and premiums, and purchase accounting adjustments, where applicable. The interest rates displayed represent the range of contractual rates in effect at   December 31, 2017  . These interest rates do not include the effects of any associated derivatives designated in a hedge accounting relationship.  

Table 13.1:      Long-Term Debt    

(continued on following page) 

Note 13:    Long-Term Debt   (continued) 

(continued from previous page) 

(1) 
    Largely consists of long-term notes where the performance of the note is linked to an embedded equity, commodity, or currency index, or basket of indices accounted for separately from the note as a free-standing derivative. For information on embedded derivatives, see the  Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments  section in Note 16 (Derivatives). In addition, a major portion consists of zero coupon callable notes where interest is paid as part of the final redemption amount. 
              (2) 
    Includes fixed-rate subordinated notes issued by the Parent at a discount of   $133 million   and   $135 million   in   2017   and   2016  , respectively, to effect a modification of Wells Fargo Bank, NA notes. These subordinated notes are carried at their par amount on the balance sheet of the Parent presented in Note 26 (Parent-Only Financial Statements). In addition, Parent long-term debt also includes debt issuance costs of   $2 million   in both 2017 and 2016, and affiliate related issuance costs of   $323 million   and   $299 million   in 2017 and 2016, respectively. 
              (3) 
    Represents junior subordinated debentures held by unconsolidated wholly-owned trusts formed for the sole purpose of issuing trust preferred securities. See Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities) for additional information on our trust preferred security structures. 
              (4) 
    Represents floating-rate extendible notes where holders of the notes may elect to extend the contractual maturity of all or a portion of the principal amount on a periodic basis. 
               (6) 
    For additional information on VIEs, see Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities). 
              (7) 
    A major portion related to securitizations and secured borrowings, see Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities). 
       We issue long-term debt in a variety of maturities and currencies to achieve cost-efficient funding and to maintain an appropriate maturity profile. Long-term debt of   $225.0 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , decreased   $30.1 billion   from December 31, 2016. 

The aggregate carrying value of long-term debt that matures (based on contractual payment dates) as of   December 31, 2017  , in each of the following five years and thereafter is presented in   Table 13.2  . 

Table 13.2:      Maturity of Long-Term Debt   

    As part of our long-term and short-term borrowing arrangements, we are subject to various financial and operational covenants. Some of the agreements under which debt has been issued have provisions that may limit the merger or sale of certain subsidiary banks and the issuance of capital  

stock or convertible securities by certain subsidiary banks. At   December 31, 2017  , we were in compliance with all the covenants. 

Note 14:    Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral, and Other Commitments 

Guarantees are contracts that contingently require us to make payments to a guaranteed party based on an event or a change in an underlying asset, liability, rate or index. Guarantees are generally in the form of standby letters of credit, securities  

lending and other indemnifications, written put options, recourse obligations, and other types of arrangements.   Table 14.1   shows carrying value, maximum exposure to loss on our guarantees and the related non-investment grade amounts. 

Table 14.1:      Guarantees   Carrying Value and Maximum Exposure to Loss    

(1) 
    Total maximum exposure to loss includes direct pay letters of credit (DPLCs) of   $8.1 billion   and   $9.2 billion   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. We issue DPLCs to provide credit enhancements for certain bond issuances. Beneficiaries (bond trustees) may draw upon these instruments to make scheduled principal and interest payments, redeem all outstanding bonds because a default event has occurred, or for other reasons as permitted by the agreement. We also originate multipurpose lending commitments under which borrowers have the option to draw on the facility in one of several forms, including as a standby letter of credit. Total maximum exposure to loss includes the portion of these facilities for which we have issued standby letters of credit under the commitments. 
               (3) 
    Written put options, which are in the form of derivatives, are also included in the derivative disclosure in Note 16 (Derivatives). Carrying value net asset position is a result of certain deferred premium option trades. 
              (4) 
    Represent recourse provided, predominantly to the GSEs, on loans sold under various programs and arrangements. Under these arrangements, we repurchased   $5 million   of loans associated with these agreements during both   2017   and   2016  . 
        Maximum exposure to loss  and  Non-investment grade  are required disclosures under GAAP. Non-investment grade represents those guarantees on which we have a higher risk of being required to perform under the terms of the guarantee. If the underlying assets under the guarantee are non-investment grade (that is, an external rating that is below investment grade or an internal credit default grade that is equivalent to a below investment grade external rating), we consider the risk of performance to be high. Internal credit default grades are determined based upon the same credit policies that we use to evaluate the risk of payment or performance when making loans and other extensions of credit. Credit quality indicators we usually consider in evaluating risk of payments or performance are described in Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses). 
  Maximum exposure to loss represents the estimated loss that would be incurred under an assumed hypothetical circumstance, despite what we believe is a remote possibility, where the value of our interests and any associated collateral declines to zero. Maximum exposure to loss estimates in   Table 14.1   do not reflect economic hedges or collateral we could use to offset or recover losses we may incur under our guarantee  

agreements. Accordingly, this required disclosure is not an indication of expected loss. We believe the carrying value, which is either fair value for derivative-related products or the allowance for lending-related commitments, is more representative of our exposure to loss than maximum exposure to loss. 
    
  STANDBY LETTERS OF CREDIT      We issue standby letters of credit, which include performance and financial guarantees, for customers in connection with contracts between our customers and third parties. Standby letters of credit are agreements where we are obligated to make payment to a third party on behalf of a customer if the customer fails to meet their contractual obligations. We consider the credit risk in standby letters of credit and commercial and similar letters of credit in determining the allowance for credit losses. 
    
  SECURITIES LENDING AND OTHER INDEMNIFICATIONS    As a securities lending agent, we lend debt and equity securities from participating institutional clients  portfolios to third-party borrowers. These arrangements are for an indefinite period of  

Note 14:    Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral, and Other Commitments   (continued) 

time, and we indemnify our clients against default by the borrower in returning these lent securities. This indemnity is supported by collateral received from the borrowers and is generally in the form of cash or highly liquid securities that are marked to market daily.  
  We use certain third-party clearing agents to clear and settle transactions on behalf of some of our institutional brokerage customers. We indemnify the clearing agents against loss that could occur for non-performance by our customers on transactions that are not sufficiently collateralized. Transactions subject to the indemnifications may include customer obligations related to the settlement of margin accounts and short positions, such as written call options and securities borrowing transactions.  
  We enter into other types of indemnification agreements in the ordinary course of business under which we agree to indemnify third parties against any damages, losses and expenses incurred in connection with legal and other proceedings arising from relationships or transactions with us. These relationships or transactions include those arising from service as a director or officer of the Company, underwriting agreements relating to our securities, acquisition agreements and various other business transactions or arrangements. Because the extent of our obligations under these agreements depends entirely upon the occurrence of future events, we are unable to determine our potential future liability under these agreements. We do, however, record a liability for residential mortgage loans that we expect to repurchase pursuant to various representations and warranties. See Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) for additional information on the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses. 
    
  WRITTEN PUT OPTIONS    Written put options are contracts that give the counterparty the right to sell to us an underlying instrument held by the counterparty at a specified price and may include options, floors, caps and credit default swaps. These written put option contracts generally permit net settlement. While these derivative transactions expose us to risk if the option is exercised, we manage this risk by entering into offsetting trades or by taking short positions in the underlying instrument. We offset market risk related to put options written to customers with cash securities or other offsetting derivative transactions. Additionally, for certain of these contracts, we require the counterparty to pledge the underlying instrument as collateral for the transaction. Our ultimate obligation under written put options is based on future market conditions and is only quantifiable at settlement. See Note 16 (Derivatives) for additional information regarding written derivative contracts. 

LOANS AND MHFS SOLD WITH RECOURSE    In certain loan sales or securitizations, we provide recourse to the buyer whereby we are required to indemnify the buyer for any loss on the loan up to par value plus accrued interest. We provide recourse, predominantly to GSEs, on loans sold under various programs and arrangements. Substantially all of these programs and arrangements require that we share in the loans  credit exposure for their remaining life by providing recourse to the GSE, up to   33.33%   of actual losses incurred on a pro-rata basis in the event of borrower default. Under the remaining recourse programs and arrangements, if certain events occur within a specified period of time from transfer date, we have to provide limited recourse to the buyer to indemnify them for losses incurred for the remaining life of the loans. The maximum exposure to loss reported in Table 14.1 represents the outstanding principal balance of the loans sold or securitized that are subject to recourse provisions or the maximum losses per the contractual agreements. However, we believe the likelihood of loss of the entire balance due to these recourse agreements is remote, and amounts paid can be recovered in whole or in part from the sale of collateral. We also provide representation and warranty guarantees on loans sold under the various recourse programs and arrangements. Our loss exposure relative to these guarantees is separately considered and provided for, as necessary, in determination of our liability for loan repurchases due to breaches of representation and warranties. See Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities) for additional information on the liability for mortgage loan repurchase losses. 
    
  FACTORING GUARANTEES        Under certain factoring arrangements, we are required to purchase trade receivables from third parties, generally upon their request, if receivable debtors default on their payment obligations.  
    
  OTHER GUARANTEES      We are members of exchanges and clearing houses that we use to clear our trades and those of our customers. It is common that all members in these organizations are required to collectively guarantee the performance of other members. Our obligations under the guarantees are based on either a fixed amount or a multiple of the collateral we are required to maintain with these organizations. We have not recorded a liability for these arrangements as of the dates presented in Table 14.1 because we believe the likelihood of loss is remote. 
  We also have contingent performance arrangements related to various customer relationships and lease transactions. We are required to pay the counterparties to these agreements if third parties default on certain obligations. 

Pledged Assets 
  As part of our liquidity management strategy, we pledge various assets to secure trust and public deposits, borrowings and letters of credit from the FHLB and FRB, securities sold under agreements to repurchase (repurchase agreements), securities lending arrangements, and for other purposes as required or permitted by law or insurance statutory requirements. The types of collateral we pledge include securities issued by federal agencies, GSEs, domestic and foreign companies and various commercial and consumer loans.   Table 14.2   provides the total carrying amount of pledged assets by asset type and pledged    

off-balance sheet securities for securities financings. The table excludes pledged consolidated VIE assets of   $13.6 billion   and   $13.4 billion   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively, which can only be used to settle the liabilities of those entities. The table also excludes   $675 million   and   $1.1 billion   in assets pledged in transactions with VIE s accounted for as secured borrowings at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. See Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities) for additional information on consolidated VIE assets and secured borrowings. 

Table 14.2:      Pledged Assets    

(2) 
    Includes carrying value of   $5.0 billion   and   $6.2 billion   (fair value of   $5.0 billion   and   $6.2 billion  ) in collateral for repurchase agreements at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively, which are pledged under agreements that do not permit the secured parties to sell or repledge the collateral. Also includes   $64 million   and   $617 million   in collateral pledged under repurchase agreements at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively, that permit the secured parties to sell or repledge the collateral. All other pledged securities are pursuant to agreements that do not permit the secured party to sell or repledge the collateral. 
              (3) 
    Includes mortgages held for sale of $  2.6 billion   and   $15.8 billion   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. Substantially all of the total mortgages held for sale and loans are pledged under agreements that do not permit the secured parties to sell or repledge the collateral. Amounts exclude   $2.2 billion   and   $1.2 billion   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively, of pledged loans recorded on our balance sheet representing certain delinquent loans that are eligible for repurchase from GNMA loan securitizations.  

Note 14:    Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral, and Other Commitments   (continued) 

Securities Financing Activities 
  We enter into resale and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing and lending agreements (collectively,  securities financing activities ) typically to finance trading positions (including securities and derivatives), acquire securities to cover short trading positions, accommodate customers  financing needs, and settle other securities obligations. These activities are conducted through our broker-dealer subsidiaries and to a lesser extent through other bank entities. Most of our securities financing activities involve high quality, liquid securities such as U.S. Treasury securities and government agency securities, and to a lesser extent, less liquid securities, including equity securities, corporate bonds and asset-backed securities. We account for these transactions as collateralized financings in which we typically receive or pledge securities as collateral. We believe these financing transactions generally do not have material credit risk given the collateral provided and the related monitoring processes.  
    
  OFFSETTING OF RESALE AND REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS AND SECURITIES BORROWING AND LENDING AGREEMENTS    Table 14.3   presents resale and repurchase agreements subject to master repurchase agreements (MRA) and securities borrowing and lending agreements subject to master securities lending agreements (MSLA). We account for transactions subject to these agreements as collateralized  

financings, and those with a single counterparty are presented net on our balance sheet, provided certain criteria are met that permit balance sheet netting. Most transactions subject to these agreements do not meet those criteria and thus are not eligible for balance sheet netting. 
  Collateral we pledged consists of non-cash instruments, such as securities or loans, and is not netted on the balance sheet against the related liability. Collateral we received includes securities or loans and is not recognized on our balance sheet. Collateral pledged or received may be increased or decreased over time to maintain certain contractual thresholds, as the assets underlying each arrangement fluctuate in value. Generally, these agreements require collateral to exceed the asset or liability recognized on the balance sheet. The following table includes the amount of collateral pledged or received related to exposures subject to enforceable MRAs or MSLAs. While these agreements are typically over-collateralized, U.S. GAAP requires disclosure in this table to limit the reported amount of such collateral to the amount of the related recognized asset or liability for each counterparty. 
  In addition to the amounts included in   Table 14.3  , we also have balance sheet netting related to derivatives that is disclosed in Note 16 (Derivatives). 

Table 14.3:      Offsetting   Resale and Repurchase Agreements    

(1) 
    Represents recognized amount of resale and repurchase agreements with counterparties subject to enforceable MRAs that have been offset in the consolidated balance sheet. 
              (2) 
    At   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , includes   $78.9 billion   and   $58.1 billion  , respectively, classified on our consolidated balance sheet in federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements and other short-term investments and   $19.0 billion   and   $21.3 billion  , respectively, in loans. 
              (3) 
    Represents the fair value of collateral we have received under enforceable MRAs or MSLAs, limited for table presentation purposes to the amount of the recognized asset due from each counterparty. At   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , we have received total collateral with a fair value of   $130.8 billion   and   $102.3 billion  , respectively, all of which we have the right to sell or repledge. These amounts include securities we have sold or repledged to others with a fair value of   $66.3 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , and   $50.0 billion   at   December 31, 2016  . 
              (4) 
    Represents the amount of our exposure that is not collateralized and/or is not subject to an enforceable MRA or MSLA. 
              (5) 
    For additional information on underlying collateral and contractual maturities, see the  Repurchase and Securities Lending Agreements  section in this Note. 
              (6) 
    Amount is classified in short-term borrowings on our consolidated balance sheet. 
              (7) 
    Represents the fair value of collateral we have pledged, related to enforceable MRAs or MSLAs, limited for table presentation purposes to the amount of the recognized liability owed to each counterparty. At   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , we have pledged total collateral with a fair value of   $113.6 billion   and   $91.4 billion  , respectively, of which the counterparty does not have the right to sell or repledge   $5.2 billion   as of   December 31, 2017  , and   $6.6 billion   as of   December 31, 2016  . 
              (8) 
    Represents the amount of our obligation that is not covered by pledged collateral and/or is not subject to an enforceable MRA or MSLA. 

REPURCHASE AND SECURITIES LENDING AGREEMENTS    Securities sold under repurchase agreements and securities lending arrangements are effectively short-term collateralized borrowings. In these transactions, we receive cash in exchange for transferring securities as collateral and recognize an obligation to reacquire the securities for cash at the transaction's maturity. These types of transactions create risks, including (1) the counterparty may fail to return the securities at maturity, (2) the fair value of the securities transferred may decline below the amount of our obligation to reacquire the securities, and therefore create an obligation for us to pledge additional amounts, and (3) the counterparty may accelerate the maturity  

on demand, requiring us to reacquire the security prior to contractual maturity. We attempt to mitigate these risks by the fact that most of our securities financing activities involve highly liquid securities, we underwrite and monitor the financial strength of our counterparties, we monitor the fair value of collateral pledged relative to contractually required repurchase amounts, and we monitor that our collateral is properly returned through the clearing and settlement process in advance of our cash repayment.   Table 14.4   provides the underlying collateral types of our gross obligations under repurchase and securities lending agreements. 

Table 14.4:      Underlying Collateral Types of Gross Obligations    

(1) 
    Equity securities are generally exchange traded and either re-hypothecated under margin lending agreements or obtained through contemporaneous securities borrowing transactions with other counterparties.  
       
    Table 14.5   provides the contractual maturities of our gross obligations under repurchase and securities lending agreements. 

Table 14.5:      Contractual Maturities of Gross Obligations    

(1) 
    Securities lending is executed under agreements that allow either party to terminate the transaction without notice, while repurchase agreements have a term structure to them that technically matures at a point in time. The overnight/continuous repurchase agreements require election of both parties to roll the trade rather than the election to terminate the arrangement as in securities lending. 
       
    OTHER COMMITMENTS   To meet the financing needs of our customers, we may enter into commitments to purchase debt and equity securities to provide capital for their funding, liquidity or other future needs. As of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , we had commitments to purchase debt securities of  

$194 million   and   $638 million  , and commitments to purchase equity securities of   $2.2 billion   and   $2.0 billion  , respectively. 

Note 15:    Legal Actions   (continued) 

Wells Fargo and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in a number of judicial, regulatory, arbitration, and other proceedings concerning matters arising from the conduct of our business activities, and many of those proceedings expose Wells Fargo to potential financial loss. These proceedings include actions brought against Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries with respect to corporate-related matters and transactions in which Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries were involved. In addition, Wells Fargo and our subsidiaries may be requested to provide information or otherwise cooperate with government authorities in the conduct of investigations of other persons or industry groups. 
  Although there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome, Wells Fargo and/or our subsidiaries have generally denied, or believe we have a meritorious defense and will deny, liability in all significant legal actions pending against us, including the matters described below, and we intend to defend vigorously each case, other than matters we describe as having settled. We establish accruals for legal actions when potential losses associated with the actions become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. For such accruals, we record the amount we consider to be the best estimate within a range of potential losses that are both probable and estimable; however, if we cannot determine a best estimate, then we record the low end of the range of those potential losses. The actual costs of resolving legal actions may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts accrued for those actions. 
  ATM ACCESS FEE LITIGATION    In October 2011, plaintiffs filed a putative class action,   Mackmin, et al. v. Visa, Inc. et al.  , against Wells Fargo   Company, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Visa, MasterCard, and several other banks in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Plaintiffs allege that the Visa and MasterCard requirement that if an ATM operator charges an access fee on Visa and MasterCard transactions, then that fee cannot be greater than the access fee charged for transactions on other networks violates antitrust rules. Plaintiffs seek treble damages, restitution, injunctive relief, and attorneys  fees where available under federal and state law. Two other antitrust cases which make similar allegations were filed in the same court, but these cases did not name Wells Fargo as a defendant. On February 13, 2013, the district court granted defendants  motions to dismiss the three actions. Plaintiffs appealed the dismissals and, on August 4, 2015, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated the district court s decisions and remanded the three cases to the district court for further proceedings. On June 28, 2016, the United States Supreme Court granted defendants  petitions for writ of certiorari to review the decisions of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. On November 17, 2016, the United States Supreme Court dismissed the petitions as improvidently granted, and the   three   cases returned to the district court for further proceedings. 

AUTOMOBILE LENDING MATTERS    As the Company centralizes operations in its automobile lending business and tightens controls and oversight of third-party risk management, the Company anticipates it may continue to identify and remediate issues related to historical practices concerning the origination, servicing, and/or collection of consumer automobile loans, including related insurance products. For example, in July 2017, the Company announced a plan to remediate customers who may have been financially harmed due to issues related to automobile collateral protection insurance (CPI) policies purchased through a third-party vendor on their behalf. The Company determined that certain external vendor processes and operational controls were inadequate and, as a result, customers may have been charged premiums for CPI even if they were paying for their own vehicle insurance, as required, and in some cases the CPI premiums may have contributed to a default that led to their vehicle s repossession. The Company discontinued the practice of placing CPI in September 2016. Multiple putative class action cases alleging, among other things, unfair and deceptive practices relating to these CPI policies, have been filed against the Company and consolidated into   one   multi-district litigation in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. Further, a former team member has alleged retaliation for raising concerns regarding automobile lending practices. In addition, the Company has identified certain issues related to the unused portion of guaranteed automobile protection (GAP) waiver or insurance agreements between the dealer and, by assignment, the lender, which may result in refunds to customers in certain states. Allegations related to both the CPI and GAP programs are among the subjects of two shareholder derivative lawsuits, which were consolidated into   one   lawsuit in California state court. These and other issues related to the origination, servicing and/or collection of consumer automobile loans, including related insurance products, have also subjected the Company to formal or informal inquiries, investigations or examinations from federal and state government agencies. 
  CONSUMER DEPOSIT ACCOUNT RELATED REGULATORY INVESTIGATION    The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the  CFPB ) is conducting an investigation into whether customers were unduly harmed by the Company s procedures regarding the freezing (and, in many cases, closing) of consumer deposit accounts after the Company detected suspected fraudulent activity (by third-parties or account holders) that affected those accounts. 
  INADVERTENT CLIENT INFORMATION DISCLOSURE    In July 2017, the Company inadvertently provided certain client information in response to a third-party subpoena issued in a civil litigation. The Company obtained permanent injunctions in New Jersey and New York state courts requiring the electronic data that contained the client information and all copies to be delivered to the New Jersey state court and the Company for safekeeping. The court has now returned the data to counsel for the Company. The Company has made voluntary self-disclosures to various state and federal regulatory agencies. Notifications have been sent to clients whose personal identifying data was contained in the inadvertent production. 

INTERCHANGE LITIGATION        Plaintiffs representing a putative class of merchants have filed putative class actions, and individual merchants have filed individual actions, against Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo   Company, Wachovia Bank, N.A. and Wachovia Corporation regarding the interchange fees associated with Visa and MasterCard payment card transactions. Visa, MasterCard and several other banks and bank holding companies are also named as defendants in these actions. These actions have been consolidated in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The amended and consolidated complaint asserts claims against defendants based on alleged violations of federal and state antitrust laws and seeks damages, as well as injunctive relief. Plaintiff merchants allege that Visa, MasterCard and payment card issuing banks unlawfully colluded to set interchange rates. Plaintiffs also allege that enforcement of certain Visa and MasterCard rules and alleged tying and bundling of services offered to merchants are anticompetitive. Wells Fargo and Wachovia, along with other defendants and entities, are parties to Loss and Judgment Sharing Agreements, which provide that they, along with other entities, will share, based on a formula, in any losses from the Interchange Litigation. On July 13, 2012, Visa, MasterCard and the financial institution defendants, including Wells Fargo, signed a memorandum of understanding with plaintiff merchants to resolve the consolidated class action and reached a separate settlement in principle of the consolidated individual actions. The settlement payments to be made by all defendants in the consolidated class and individual actions totaled approximately   $6.6 billion   before reductions applicable to certain merchants opting out of the settlement. The class settlement also provided for the distribution to class merchants of   10   basis points of default interchange across all credit rate categories for a period of   eight   consecutive months. The district court granted final approval of the settlement, which was appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit by settlement objector merchants. Other merchants opted out of the settlement and are pursuing several individual actions. On June 30, 2016, the Second Circuit vacated the settlement agreement and reversed and remanded the consolidated action to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York for further proceedings. On November 23, 2016, prior class counsel filed a petition to the United States Supreme Court, seeking review of the reversal of the settlement by the Second Circuit, and the Supreme Court denied the petition on March 27, 2017. On November 30, 2016, the district court appointed lead class counsel for a damages class and an equitable relief class. Several of the opt-out litigations were settled during the pendency of the Second Circuit appeal while others remain pending. Discovery is proceeding in the opt-out litigations and the remanded class cases. 
  MORTGAGE BANKRUPTCY LOAN MODIFICATION LITIGATION    Plaintiffs, representing a putative class of mortgage borrowers who were debtors in Chapter 13 bankruptcy cases, filed a putative class action,   Cotton, et al. v. Wells Fargo, et al.  , against Wells Fargo   Company and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of North Carolina on June 7, 2017. Plaintiffs allege that Wells Fargo improperly and unilaterally modified the mortgages of borrowers who were debtors in Chapter 13 bankruptcy cases. Plaintiffs allege that Wells Fargo implemented these modifications by improperly filing mortgage payment change notices in Chapter 13 bankruptcy cases, in violation of bankruptcy rules and process. The amended complaint asserts  

claims based on, among other things, alleged fraud, violations of bankruptcy rules and laws, and unfair and deceptive trade practices. The amended complaint seeks monetary damages, attorneys  fees, and declaratory and injunctive relief. 
  MORTGAGE INTEREST RATE LOCK RELATED REGULATORY INVESTIGATION    The CFPB is conducting an investigation into the Company s policies and procedures regarding the circumstances in which the Company required customers to pay fees for the extension of interest rate lock periods for residential mortgages. This matter has also subjected the Company to formal or informal inquiries, investigations or examinations from other federal and state government agencies. On October 4, 2017, the Company announced plans to reach out to all home lending customers who paid fees for mortgage rate lock extensions requested from September 16, 2013, through February 28, 2017, and to provide refunds, with interest, to customers who believe they should not have paid those fees. The Company is named in a putative class action, filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging violations of federal and state consumer fraud statutes relating to mortgage rate lock extension fees. A second suit was also filed, but was voluntarily dismissed in November 2017. In addition, former team members have asserted claims, including in pending litigation, that they were terminated for raising concerns regarding these policies and procedures. Allegations related to mortgage interest rate lock extension fees are also among the subjects of   two   shareholder derivative lawsuits filed in California state court. 
  MORTGAGE RELATED REGULATORY INVESTIGATIONS    Federal and state government agencies, including the United States Department of Justice (the  Department of Justice ), continue investigations or examinations of certain mortgage related activities of Wells Fargo and predecessor institutions. Wells Fargo, for itself and for predecessor institutions, has responded, and continues to respond, to requests from these agencies seeking information regarding the origination, underwriting and securitization of residential mortgages, including sub-prime mortgages. These agencies have advanced theories of purported liability with respect to certain of these activities. The Department of Justice and Wells Fargo continue to discuss the matter, including potential settlement of the Department of Justice's concerns; however, litigation with these agencies, including with the Department of Justice, remains a possibility. Other financial institutions have entered into similar settlements with these agencies, the nature of which related to the specific activities of those financial institutions, including the imposition of significant financial penalties and remedial actions. 
  OFAC RELATED INVESTIGATION    The Company has self-identified an issue whereby certain foreign banks utilized a Wells Fargo software-based solution to conduct import/export trade-related financing transactions with countries and entities prohibited by the Office of Foreign Assets Control ( OFAC ) of the United States Department of the Treasury. We do not believe any funds related to these transactions flowed through accounts at Wells Fargo as a result of the aforementioned conduct. The Company has made voluntary self-disclosures to OFAC and is cooperating with an inquiry from the Department of Justice. 

Note 15:    Legal Actions   (continued) 

ORDER OF POSTING LITIGATION    Plaintiffs filed a series of putative class actions against Wachovia Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as well as many other banks, challenging the  high to low  order in which the banks post debit card transactions to consumer deposit accounts. Most of these actions were consolidated in multi-district litigation proceedings (the  MDL proceedings ) in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The court in the MDL proceedings has certified a class of putative plaintiffs, and Wells Fargo moved to compel arbitration of the claims of unnamed class members. The court denied the motions to compel arbitration on October 17, 2016. Wells Fargo has appealed this decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. 
  RMBS TRUSTEE LITIGATION    In November 2014, a group of institutional investors (the  Institutional Investor Plaintiffs ), including funds affiliated with BlackRock, Inc., filed a putative class action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., alleging claims against the Company in its capacity as trustee for a number of residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) trusts (the  Federal Court Complaint ). Similar complaints have been filed against other trustees in various courts, including in the Southern District of New York, in New York state court, and in other states, by RMBS investors. The Federal Court Complaint alleges that Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee, caused losses to investors and asserts causes of action based upon, among other things, the trustee's alleged failure to notify and enforce repurchase obligations of mortgage loan sellers for purported breaches of representations and warranties, notify investors of alleged events of default, and abide by appropriate standards of care following alleged events of default. Plaintiffs seek money damages in an unspecified amount, reimbursement of expenses, and equitable relief. In December 2014 and December 2015, certain other investors filed   four   complaints alleging similar claims against Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. in the Southern District of New York (the  Related Federal Cases ), and the various cases pending against Wells Fargo are proceeding before the same judge. On January 19, 2016, the Southern District of New York entered an order in connection with the Federal Court Complaint dismissing claims related to certain of the trusts at issue (the  Dismissed Trusts ). The Company's motion to dismiss the Federal Court Complaint and the complaints for the Related Federal Cases was granted in part and denied in part in March 2017. In May 2017, the Company filed third-party complaints against certain investment advisors affiliated with the Institutional Investor Plaintiffs seeking contribution with respect to claims alleged in the Federal Court Complaint. The investment advisors have moved to dismiss those complaints. 
  A complaint raising similar allegations to the Federal Court Complaint was filed in May 2016 in New York state court by a different plaintiff investor. In addition, the Institutional Investor Plaintiffs subsequently filed a complaint relating to the Dismissed Trusts and certain additional trusts in California state court (the  California Action ). The California Action was subsequently dismissed in September 2016. In December 2016, the Institutional Investor Plaintiffs filed a new putative class action complaint in New York state court in respect of 261 RMBS trusts, including the Dismissed Trusts, for which Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. serves or served as trustee (the  State Court Action ). The Company has moved to dismiss the State Court Action. 
  In July 2017, certain of the plaintiffs from the State Court Action filed a civil complaint relating to Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.'s setting aside reserves for legal fees and expenses in  

connection with the liquidation of   eleven   RMBS trusts at issue in the State Court Action. The complaint seeks, among other relief, declarations that Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is not entitled to indemnification, the advancement of funds or the taking of reserves from trust funds for legal fees and expenses it incurs in defending the claims in the State Court Action. In November 2017, the Company's motion to dismiss the complaint was granted. Plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal in January 2018. In September 2017,   one   of the plaintiffs in the Related Federal Cases filed a similar complaint in the Southern District of New York seeking declaratory and injunctive relief and money damages on an individual and class action basis. 
  SALES PRACTICES MATTERS    Federal, state and local government agencies, including the Department of Justice, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the United States Department of Labor, and state attorneys general and prosecutors  offices, as well as Congressional committees, have undertaken formal or informal inquiries, investigations or examinations arising out of certain sales practices of the Company that were the subject of settlements with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of the Los Angeles City Attorney announced by the Company on September 8, 2016. These matters are at varying stages. The Company has responded, and continues to respond, to requests from a number of the foregoing and has discussed the resolution of some of the matters. 
  In addition, a number of lawsuits have also been filed by non-governmental parties seeking damages or other remedies related to these sales practices. First, various class plaintiffs purporting to represent consumers who allege that they received products or services without their authorization or consent have brought separate putative class actions against the Company in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and various other jurisdictions. In April 2017, the Company entered into a settlement agreement in the first-filed action,   Jabbari v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A  ., to resolve claims regarding certain products or services provided without authorization or consent for the time period May 1, 2002 to April 20, 2017. Pursuant to the settlement, the Company will pay   $142 million   for remediation, attorneys  fees, and settlement fund claims administration. In the unlikely event that the   $142 million   settlement total is not enough to provide remediation, pay attorneys' fees, pay settlement fund claims administration costs, and have at least   $25 million   left over to distribute to all class members, the Company will contribute additional funds to the settlement. In addition, in the unlikely event that the number of unauthorized accounts identified by settlement class members in the claims process and not disputed by the claims administrator exceeds plaintiffs    3.5 million   account estimate, the Company will proportionately increase the   $25 million   reserve so that the ratio of reserve to unauthorized accounts is no less than what was implied by plaintiffs  estimate at the time of the district court s preliminary approval of the settlement in July 2017. A final approval hearing has been scheduled for March 2018, although this timing is subject to change. Second, Wells Fargo shareholders are pursuing a consolidated securities fraud class action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California alleging certain misstatements and omissions in the Company s disclosures related to sales practices matters. Third, Wells Fargo shareholders have brought numerous shareholder derivative lawsuits asserting breach of fiduciary duty claims, among others,  

against current and former directors and officers for their alleged failure to detect and prevent sales practices issues, which were consolidated into   two   separate actions in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and California state court, as well as   two   separate actions in Delaware state court. Fourth, a range of employment litigation has been brought against Wells Fargo, including an Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) class action in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota on behalf of 401(k) plan participants; class actions pending in the United States District Courts for the Northern District of California and Eastern District of New York on behalf of team members who allege that they protested sales practice misconduct and/or were terminated for not meeting sales goals; various wage and hour class actions brought in federal and state court in California, New Jersey, Florida, and Pennsylvania on behalf of non-exempt branch based team members alleging sales pressure resulted in uncompensated overtime; and multiple single plaintiff Sarbanes-Oxley Act complaints and state law whistleblower actions filed with the United States Department of Labor or in various state courts alleging adverse employment actions for raising sales practice misconduct issues. 
  SEMINOLE TRIBE TRUSTEE LITIGATION    The Seminole Tribe of Florida filed a complaint in Florida state court alleging that Wells Fargo, as trustee, charged excess fees in connection with the administration of a minor s trust and failed to invest the assets of the trust prudently. The complaint was later amended to include three individual current and former beneficiaries as plaintiffs and to remove the Tribe as a party to the case. In December 2016, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint on the grounds that the Tribe is a necessary party and that the individual beneficiaries lack standing to bring  

claims. 
    
  OUTLOOK      As described above, the Company establishes accruals for legal actions when potential losses associated with the actions become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. The high end of the range of reasonably possible potential losses in excess of the Company s accrual for probable and estimable losses was approximately   $2.7 billion   as of   December 31, 2017  . The outcomes of legal actions are unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, and it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible. It is also inherently difficult to estimate the amount of any loss and there may be matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible but not currently estimable. Accordingly, actual losses may be in excess of the established accrual or the range of reasonably possible loss. Wells Fargo is unable to determine whether the ultimate resolution of either the mortgage related regulatory investigations or the sales practices matters will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition. Based on information currently available, advice of counsel, available insurance coverage and established reserves, Wells Fargo believes that the eventual outcome of other actions against Wells Fargo and/or its subsidiaries will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Wells Fargo s consolidated financial condition. However, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of a matter, if unfavorable, may be material to Wells Fargo s results of operations for any particular period. 

Note 16:    Derivatives   (continued) 

We use derivatives to manage exposure to market risk, including interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk, and to assist customers with their risk management objectives. We designate certain derivatives as hedging instruments in a qualifying hedge accounting relationship (fair value or cash flow hedge). Our remaining derivatives consist of economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge accounting and derivatives held for customer accommodation trading or other purposes. 
  Our asset/liability management approach to interest rate, foreign currency and certain other risks includes the use of derivatives. Such derivatives are typically designated as fair value or cash flow hedges, or economic hedges. We use derivatives to help minimize significant, unplanned fluctuations in earnings, fair values of assets and liabilities, and cash flows caused by interest rate, foreign currency and other market risk volatility. This approach involves modifying the repricing characteristics of certain assets and liabilities so that changes in interest rates, foreign currency and other exposures, which may cause the hedged assets and liabilities to gain or lose fair value, do not have a significantly adverse effect on the net interest margin, cash flows and earnings. In a fair value or economic hedge, the effect of change in fair value will generally be offset by the unrealized gain or loss on the derivatives linked to the hedged assets and liabilities. In a cash flow hedge, where we manage the variability of cash payments due to interest rate fluctuations by the effective use of derivatives linked to hedged assets and liabilities, the hedged asset or liability is not adjusted and the unrealized gain or loss on the derivative is recorded in other comprehensive income. 

We also offer various derivatives, including interest rate, commodity, equity, credit and foreign exchange contracts, as an accommodation to our customers as part of our trading businesses. These derivative transactions, which involve our engaging in market-making activities or acting as an intermediary, are conducted in an effort to help customers manage their market risks. We usually offset our exposure from such derivatives by entering into other financial contracts, such as separate derivative or security transactions. These customer accommodations and any offsetting derivatives are treated as customer accommodation trading and other derivatives in our disclosures. Additionally, embedded derivatives that are required to be accounted for separately from their host contracts are included in the customer accommodation trading and other derivatives disclosures as applicable. 
  Table 16.1   presents the total notional or contractual amounts and fair values for our derivatives. Derivative transactions can be measured in terms of the notional amount, but this amount is not recorded on the balance sheet and is not, when viewed in isolation, a meaningful measure of the risk profile of the instruments. The notional amount is generally not exchanged, but is used only as the basis on which interest and other payments are determined.  

Table 16.1:      Notional or Contractual Amounts and Fair Values of Derivatives    

(1) 
    Notional amounts presented exclude   $500 million   and   $1.9 billion   of interest rate contracts at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively, for certain derivatives that are combined for designation as a hedge on a single instrument. The notional amount for foreign exchange contracts at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , excludes   $13.5 billion   and   $9.6 billion  , respectively for certain derivatives that are combined for designation as a hedge on a single instrument. 
              (2) 
    Includes economic hedge derivatives used to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of residential MSRs, MHFS, loans, derivative loan commitments and other interests held. 
              (3) 
    Represents balance sheet netting of derivative asset and liability balances, related cash collateral and portfolio level counterparty valuation adjustments. See the next table in this Note for further information. 

Note 16:    Derivatives   (continued) 

Table 16.2   provides information on the gross fair values of derivative assets and liabilities, the balance sheet netting adjustments and the resulting net fair value amount recorded on our balance sheet, as well as the non-cash collateral associated with such arrangements. We execute substantially all of our derivative transactions under master netting arrangements and reflect all derivative balances and related cash collateral subject to enforceable master netting arrangements on a net basis within the balance sheet. The  Gross amounts recognized  column in the following table includes   $30.0 billion   and   $29.9 billion   of gross derivative assets and liabilities, respectively, at   December 31, 2017  , and   $74.4 billion   and   $78.4 billion  , respectively, at   December 31, 2016  , with counterparties subject to enforceable master netting arrangements that are carried on the balance sheet net of offsetting amounts. The remaining gross derivative assets and liabilities of   $6.4 billion   and   $4.4 billion  , respectively, at   December 31, 2017   and   $10.7 billion   and   $8.7 billion  , respectively, at   December 31, 2016  , include those with counterparties subject to master netting arrangements for which we have not assessed the enforceability because they are with counterparties where we do not currently have positions to offset, those subject to master netting arrangements where we have not been able to confirm the enforceability and those not subject to master netting arrangements. As such, we do not net derivative balances or collateral within the balance sheet for these counterparties. 
  We determine the balance sheet netting adjustments based on the terms specified within each master netting arrangement. We disclose the balance sheet netting amounts within the column titled  Gross amounts offset in consolidated balance sheet.  Balance sheet netting adjustments are determined at the counterparty level for which there may be multiple contract types. For disclosure purposes, we allocate these netting adjustments to the contract type for each counterparty  

proportionally based upon the  Gross amounts recognized  by counterparty. As a result, the net amounts disclosed by contract type may not represent the actual exposure upon settlement of the contracts. 
  We do not net non-cash collateral that we receive and pledge on the balance sheet. For disclosure purposes, we present the fair value of this non-cash collateral in the column titled  Gross amounts not offset in consolidated balance sheet (Disclosure-only netting)  within the table. We determine and allocate the Disclosure-only netting amounts in the same manner as balance sheet netting amounts. 
  The  Net amounts  column within   Table 16.2   represents the aggregate of our net exposure to each counterparty after considering the balance sheet and Disclosure-only netting adjustments. We manage derivative exposure by monitoring the credit risk associated with each counterparty using counterparty specific credit risk limits, using master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral. Derivative contracts executed in over-the-counter markets include bilateral contractual arrangements that are not cleared through a central clearing organization but are typically subject to master netting arrangements. The percentage of our bilateral derivative transactions outstanding at period end in such markets, based on gross fair value, is provided within the following table. Other derivative contracts executed in over-the-counter or exchange-traded markets are settled through a central clearing organization and are excluded from this percentage. In addition to the netting amounts included in the table, we also have balance sheet netting related to resale and repurchase agreements that are disclosed within Note 14 (Guarantees, Pledged Assets and Collateral, and Other Commitments). 

Table 16.2:      Gross Fair Values of Derivative Assets and Liabilities    

(1) 
    In     second quarter     2017, we adopted Settlement to Market treatment for the cash collateralizing our interest rate derivative contracts with certain centrally cleared counterparties.     As a result of this adoption, the  gross amounts recognized  and  gross amounts offset in the consolidated balance sheet  columns do not include exposure with certain centrally cleared counterparties because the contracts are considered settled by the collateral. Likewise, what remains in these gross amount columns consists primarily of over-the-counter (OTC) market contracts for most of the contract types as reflected by the high percentage of OTC contracts in the  percent exchanged in over-the counter market  column as of   December 31, 2017  . 
              (2) 
    Represents amounts with counterparties subject to enforceable master netting arrangements that have been offset in the consolidated balance sheet, including related cash collateral and portfolio level counterparty valuation adjustments. Counterparty valuation adjustments were   $245 million   and   $348 million   related to derivative assets and   $95 million   and   $114 million   related to derivative liabilities as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. Cash collateral totaled   $2.7 billion   and   $4.2 billion  , netted against derivative assets and liabilities, respectively, at   December 31, 2017  , and   $4.8 billion   and   $7.1 billion  , respectively, at   December 31, 2016  . 
              (3) 
    Represents the fair value of non-cash collateral pledged and received against derivative assets and liabilities with the same counterparty that are subject to enforceable master netting arrangements. U.S. GAAP does not permit netting of such non-cash collateral balances in the consolidated balance sheet but requires disclosure of these amounts. 
              (4) 
    Represents derivatives executed in over-the-counter markets not settled through a central clearing organization. Over-the-counter percentages are calculated based on Gross amounts recognized as of the respective balance sheet date. The remaining percentage represents derivatives settled through a central clearing organization, which are executed in either over-the-counter or exchange-traded markets. 

Note 16:    Derivatives   (continued) 

Fair Value and Cash Flow Hedges    
  For fair value hedges, we use interest rate swaps to convert certain of our fixed-rate long-term debt and time certificates of deposit to floating rates to hedge our exposure to interest rate risk. We also enter into cross-currency swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate risk associated with the issuance of non-U.S. dollar denominated long-term debt. In addition, we use interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward contracts to hedge against changes in fair value of certain investments in available-for-sale debt securities due to changes in interest rates, foreign currency rates, or both. We also use interest rate swaps to hedge against changes in fair value for certain mortgages held for sale.  

For cash flow hedges, we use interest rate swaps to hedge the variability in interest payments received on certain floating-rate commercial loans and paid on certain floating-rate debt due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. 
  Based upon current interest rates, we estimate   $90 million   pre-tax of deferred net losses on derivatives in OCI at   December 31, 2017  , will be reclassified into net interest income during the next twelve months. Future changes to interest rates may significantly change actual amounts reclassified to earnings. We are hedging our exposure to the variability of future cash flows for all forecasted transactions for a maximum of   4   years. 
  Table 16.3   shows the net gains (losses) related to derivatives in fair value and cash flow hedging relationships. 

Table 16.3:      Gains (Losses) Recognized in Consolidated Statement of Income on Fair Value and Cash Flow Hedging         Relationships (1) 

(continued on following page) 

(1) 
    Prior period gain or loss amounts and presentation location were not conformed to new hedge accounting guidance that we adopted in 2017.  
               (3) 
    Includes   $(3) million  ,   $(13) million   and   $(7) million   for years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016  , and   2015  , respectively, of the time value component recognized as net interest income (expense) on forward derivatives hedging foreign currency available-for-sale securities and long-term debt that were excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. 
              (4) 
    For certain fair value hedges of foreign currency risk, changes in fair value of cross-currency swaps attributable to changes in cross-currency basis spreads are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recorded in other comprehensive income. See Note 24 (Other Comprehensive Income) for the amounts recognized in other comprehensive income. 
              (5) 
    See Note 24 (Other Comprehensive Income) for details of amounts reclassified to net income. 

Note 16:    Derivatives   (continued) 

Table 16.4   shows the carrying amount and associated cumulative basis adjustment related to the application of hedge accounting that is included in the carrying amount of hedged assets and liabilities in fair value hedging relationships. 

Table 16.4:      Hedged Items in Fair Value Hedging Relationship   

(1) 
    Represents hedged items no longer designated in qualifying fair value hedging relationships for which an associated basis adjustment exists at the balance sheet date.  
              (2) 
    Does not include the carrying amount of hedged items where only foreign currency risk is the designated hedged risk. The carrying amount excluded for investment securities is   $1.5 billion   and for long-term debt is   $(7.7) billion  .  
              (3) 
    The balance includes   $2.1 billion   and   $297 million   of investment securities and long-term debt cumulative basis adjustments, respectively, on terminated hedges whereby the hedged items have subsequently been re-designated into existing hedges. 
              (4) 
    Represents the full carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability item as of the balance sheet date, except for circumstances in which only a portion of the asset or liability was designated as the hedged item in which case only the portion designated is presented. 
              (5) 
    Carrying amount represents the amortized cost.  
       Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments 
  We use economic hedge derivatives to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of certain residential MHFS, certain loans held for investment, residential MSRs measured at fair value, derivative loan commitments and other interests held. We also use economic hedge derivatives to mitigate the periodic earnings volatility caused by mismatches between the changes in fair value of the hedged item and hedging instrument recognized on our fair value accounting hedges. The resulting gain or loss on these economic hedge derivatives is reflected in mortgage banking noninterest income, net gains (losses) from equity investments and other noninterest income. 
  The derivatives used to hedge MSRs measured at fair value, which include swaps, swaptions, constant maturity mortgages, forwards, Eurodollar and Treasury futures and options contracts, resulted in net derivative gains of   $413 million   in   2017  , net derivative gains of   $261 million   in   2016   and net derivative gains of   $671 million   in   2015  , which are included in mortgage banking noninterest income. The aggregate fair value of these derivatives was a net   asset   of   $89 million   at   December 31, 2017  , and a net liability of   $617 million   at   December 31, 2016  . The change in fair value of these derivatives for each period end is due to changes in the underlying market indices and interest rates as well as the purchase and sale of derivative financial instruments throughout the period as part of our dynamic MSR risk management process. 
  Interest rate lock commitments for mortgage loans that we intend to sell are considered derivatives. Our interest rate exposure on these derivative loan commitments, as well as residential MHFS, is hedged with economic hedge derivatives such as swaps, forwards and options, Eurodollar futures and options, and Treasury futures, forwards and options contracts. The derivative loan commitments, economic hedge derivatives and residential MHFS are carried at fair value with changes in fair value included in mortgage banking noninterest income. For the fair value measurement of interest rate lock commitments we include, at inception and during the life of the loan commitment, the expected net future cash flows related to the associated servicing of the loan. Fair value changes subsequent to inception  

are based on changes in fair value of the underlying loan resulting from the exercise of the commitment and changes in the probability that the loan will not fund within the terms of the commitment (referred to as a fall-out factor). The value of the underlying loan is affected by changes in interest rates and the passage of time. However, changes in investor demand can also cause changes in the value of the underlying loan value that cannot be hedged. The aggregate fair value of derivative loan commitments on the balance sheet was a net   asset   of   $17 million   and a net liability of   $6 million   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively, and is included in the caption  Interest rate contracts  under  Customer accommodation trading and other derivatives  in Table 16.1. 
  We also enter into various derivatives as an accommodation to our customers as part of our trading businesses. These derivatives are not linked to specific assets and liabilities on the balance sheet or to forecasted transactions in an accounting hedge relationship and, therefore, do not qualify for hedge accounting. We also enter into derivatives for risk management that do not otherwise qualify for hedge accounting. They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in noninterest income. 
  Customer accommodation trading and other derivatives also include embedded derivatives that are required to be accounted for separately from their host contract. We periodically issue hybrid long-term notes and CDs where the performance of the hybrid instrument notes is linked to an equity, commodity or currency index, or basket of such indices. These notes contain explicit terms that affect some or all of the cash flows or the value of the note in a manner similar to a derivative instrument and therefore are considered to contain an  embedded  derivative instrument. The indices on which the performance of the hybrid instrument is calculated are not clearly and closely related to the host debt instrument. The  embedded  derivative is separated from the host contract and accounted for as a derivative. Additionally, we may invest in hybrid instruments that contain embedded derivatives, such as credit derivatives, that are not clearly and closely related to the host contract. In such instances, we either elect fair value option for the hybrid  

instrument or separate the embedded derivative from the host contract and account for the host contract and derivative separately. 
  Table 16.5   shows the net gains (losses), recognized by income statement lines, related to derivatives not designated as hedging instruments. 

Table 16.5:     Gains (Losses) on Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments  

(Continued on following page) 

Note 16:    Derivatives   (continued) 

(1) 
    Includes gains (losses) on the derivatives used as economic hedges of MSRs measured at fair value, interest rate lock commitments and mortgages held for sale. 
               (3) 
    Amounts presented in mortgage banking noninterest income are gains on interest rate lock commitments.  
       
    Credit Derivatives    
  Credit derivative contracts are arrangements whose value is derived from the transfer of credit risk of a reference asset or entity from one party (the purchaser of credit protection) to another party (the seller of credit protection). We use credit derivatives to assist customers with their risk management objectives. We may also use credit derivatives in structured product transactions or liquidity agreements written to special purpose vehicles. The maximum exposure of sold credit derivatives is managed through posted collateral, purchased credit derivatives and similar products in order to achieve our desired credit risk profile. This credit risk management provides  

an ability to recover a significant portion of any amounts that would be paid under the sold credit derivatives. We would be required to perform under the sold credit derivatives in the event of default by the referenced obligors. Events of default include events such as bankruptcy, capital restructuring or lack of principal and/or interest payment. In certain cases, other triggers may exist, such as the credit downgrade of the referenced obligors or the inability of the special purpose vehicle for which we have provided liquidity to obtain funding. 
  Table 16.6   provides details of sold and purchased credit derivatives. 

Table 16.6:      Sold and Purchased Credit Derivatives    

Protection sold represents the estimated maximum exposure to loss that would be incurred under an assumed hypothetical circumstance, where the value of our interests and any associated collateral declines to zero, without any consideration of recovery or offset from any economic hedges. We believe this hypothetical circumstance to be an extremely remote possibility and accordingly, this required disclosure is not an indication of expected loss. The amounts under non-investment grade represent the notional amounts of those credit derivatives on which we have a higher risk of being required to perform under the terms of the credit derivative and are a function of the underlying assets. 
  We consider the risk of performance to be high if the underlying assets under the credit derivative have an external rating that is below investment grade or an internal credit default grade that is equivalent thereto. We believe the net protection sold, which is representative of the net notional amount of protection sold and purchased with identical underlyings, in combination with other protection purchased, is more representative of our exposure to loss than either non-investment grade or protection sold. Other protection purchased represents additional protection, which may offset the exposure to loss for protection sold, that was not purchased with an identical underlying of the protection sold. 
    
  Credit-Risk Contingent Features    
  Certain of our derivative contracts contain provisions whereby if the credit rating of our debt were to be downgraded by certain major credit rating agencies, the counterparty could demand additional collateral or require termination or replacement of derivative instruments in a net liability position. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with such credit-risk-related contingent features that are in a net liability position was   $8.3 billion   at   December 31, 2017  , and   $12.8 billion   at   December 31, 2016  , respectively, for which we posted   $7.1 billion   and   $8.9 billion  , respectively, in collateral in the normal course of business. If the credit rating of our debt had been downgraded below investment grade, which is the credit-risk-related contingent feature that if triggered requires the maximum  

amount of collateral to be posted, on   December 31, 2017  , or   December 31, 2016  , we would have been required to post additional collateral of   $1.2 billion   or   $4.0 billion  , respectively, or potentially settle the contract in an amount equal to its fair value. Some contracts require that we provide more collateral than the fair value of derivatives that are in a net liability position if a downgrade occurs.  
    
  Counterparty Credit Risk 
  By using derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty credit risk if counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as expected. If a counterparty fails to perform, our counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset on our balance sheet. The amounts reported as a derivative asset are derivative contracts in a gain position, and to the extent subject to legally enforceable master netting arrangements, net of derivatives in a loss position with the same counterparty and cash collateral received. We minimize counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, executing master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. To the extent the master netting arrangements and other criteria meet the applicable requirements, including determining the legal enforceability of the arrangement, it is our policy to present derivative balances and related cash collateral amounts net on the balance sheet. We incorporate credit valuation adjustments (CVA) to reflect counterparty credit risk in determining the fair value of our derivatives. Such adjustments, which consider the effects of enforceable master netting agreements and collateral arrangements, reflect market-based views of the credit quality of each counterparty. Our CVA calculation is determined based on observed credit spreads in the credit default swap market and indices indicative of the credit quality of the counterparties to our derivatives.  

Note 17:    Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities   (continued) 

Note 17:    Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities 

We use fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain assets and liabilities and to determine fair value disclosures. Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis are presented in Table 17.2 in this Note. From time to time, we may be required to record fair value adjustments on a nonrecurring basis. These nonrecurring fair value adjustments typically involve application of LOCOM accounting or write-downs of individual assets. Assets recorded on a nonrecurring basis are presented in Table 17.12 in this Note. 
  Following is a discussion of the fair value hierarchy and the valuation methodologies used for assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring or nonrecurring basis and for estimating fair value for financial instruments not recorded at fair value. 
    
  Fair Value Hierarchy 
  We group our assets and liabilities measured at fair value in three levels based on the markets in which the assets and liabilities are traded and the reliability of the assumptions used to determine fair value. These levels are: 
             
    Level 1   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for identical instruments traded in active markets. 
                
    Level 2   Valuation is based upon quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market. 
                
    Level 3   Valuation is generated from techniques that use significant assumptions that are not observable in the market. These unobservable assumptions reflect estimates of assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques include use of option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques. 
       
   In accordance with new accounting guidance that we adopted effective January 1, 2016, we do not classify an investment in the fair value hierarchy if we use the non-published net asset value (NAV) per share (or its equivalent) that has been communicated to us as an investor as a practical expedient to measure fair value. We generally use NAV per share as the fair value measurement for certain nonmarketable equity fund investments. Marketable equity investments with published NAVs continue to be classified in the fair value hierarchy. 
  In the determination of the classification of financial instruments in Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, we consider all available information, including observable market data, indications of market liquidity and orderliness, and our understanding of the valuation techniques and significant inputs used. For securities in inactive markets, we use a predetermined percentage to evaluate the impact of fair value adjustments derived from weighting both external and internal indications of value to determine if the instrument is classified as Level 2 or Level 3. Otherwise, the classification of Level 2 or Level 3 is based upon the specific facts and circumstances of each instrument or instrument category and judgments are made regarding the significance of the Level 3 inputs to the instruments  fair value measurement in its entirety.     If Level 3 inputs are considered significant, the instrument is classified as Level 3. 

Assets 
  SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL ASSETS    Short-term financial assets include cash and due from banks, federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements and due from customers on acceptances. These assets are carried at historical cost. The carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value because of the relatively short time between the origination of the instrument and its expected realization. 
    
  TRADING ASSETS AND INVESTMENT     SECURITIES    Trading assets and available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Other investment securities classified as held-to-maturity are subject to impairment and fair value measurement if fair value declines below amortized cost and we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the debt security. Fair value measurement is based upon various sources of market pricing. We use quoted prices in active markets, where available, and classify such instruments within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Examples include exchange-traded equity securities and some highly liquid government securities, such as U.S. Treasuries. When instruments are traded in secondary markets and quoted market prices do not exist for such securities, we generally rely on internal valuation techniques or on prices obtained from vendors (  predominantly   third-party pricing services), and accordingly, we classify these instruments as Level 2 or 3. 
  Trading securities are valued using internal trader prices that are subject to price verification procedures. The fair values derived using internal valuation techniques are verified against multiple pricing sources, including prices obtained from third-party vendors. Vendors compile prices from various sources and often apply matrix pricing for similar securities when no price is observable. We review pricing methodologies provided by the vendors in order to determine if observable market information is being used versus unobservable inputs. When evaluating the appropriateness of an internal trader price compared with vendor prices, considerations include the range and quality of vendor prices. Vendor prices are used to ensure the reasonableness of a trader price; however, valuing financial instruments involves judgments acquired from knowledge of a particular market. If a trader asserts that a vendor price is not reflective of market value, justification for using the trader price, including recent sales activity where possible, must be provided to and approved by the appropriate levels of management. 
  Similarly, while investment securities traded in secondary markets are typically valued using unadjusted vendor prices or vendor prices adjusted by weighting them with internal discounted cash flow techniques, these prices are reviewed and, if deemed inappropriate by a trader who has the most knowledge of a particular market, can be adjusted. These investment securities, which include those measured using unadjusted vendor prices, are generally classified as Level 2 and typically involve using quoted market prices for the same or similar securities, pricing models, discounted cash flow analyses using significant inputs observable in the market where available or a combination of multiple valuation techniques. Examples include certain residential and commercial MBS, other asset-backed securities municipal bonds, U.S. government and agency MBS, and corporate debt securities. 
  Security fair value measurements using significant inputs that are unobservable in the market due to limited activity or a less liquid market are classified as Level 3 in the fair value  

hierarchy. Such measurements include securities valued using internal models or a combination of multiple valuation techniques where the unobservable inputs are significant to the overall fair value measurement. Securities classified as Level 3 include certain residential and commercial MBS, other asset-backed securities, CDOs and certain CLOs, and certain residual and retained interests in residential mortgage loan securitizations. We value CDOs using the prices of similar instruments, the pricing of completed or pending third-party transactions or the pricing of the underlying collateral within the CDO. Where vendor prices are not readily available, we use management s best estimate. 
    
  MORTGAGES HELD FOR SALE (MHFS)    MHFS are carried at LOCOM or at fair value. We carry   substantially all   of our residential MHFS portfolio at fair value. Fair value is based on quoted market prices, where available, or the prices for other mortgage whole loans with similar characteristics. As necessary, these prices are adjusted for typical securitization activities, including servicing value, portfolio composition, market conditions and liquidity.   Predominantly all   of our MHFS are classified as Level 2. For the portion where market pricing data is not available, we use a discounted cash flow model to estimate fair value and, accordingly, classify as Level 3. 
    
  LOANS HELD FOR SALE (LHFS)    LHFS are carried at LOCOM or at fair value. The fair value of LHFS is based on current offerings in secondary markets for loans with similar characteristics. As such, we classify those loans subjected to nonrecurring fair value adjustments as Level 2. 
    
  LOANS    For information on how we report the carrying value of loans, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies). Although most loans are not recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, reverse mortgages are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. In addition, we record nonrecurring fair value adjustments to loans to reflect partial write-downs that are based on the observable market price of the loan or current appraised value of the collateral. 
  We provide fair value estimates in this disclosure for loans that are not recorded at fair value on a recurring or nonrecurring basis. Those estimates differentiate loans based on their financial characteristics, such as product classification, loan category, pricing features and remaining maturity. Prepayment and credit loss estimates are evaluated by product and loan rate. 
  The fair value of commercial loans is calculated by discounting contractual cash flows, adjusted for credit loss estimates, using discount rates that are appropriate for loans with similar characteristics and remaining maturity. For real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mortgages, we calculate fair value by discounting contractual cash flows, adjusted for prepayment and credit loss estimates, using discount rates based on current industry pricing (where readily available) or our own estimate of an appropriate discount rate for loans of similar size, type, remaining maturity and repricing characteristics. 
  The estimated fair value of consumer loans is generally calculated by discounting the contractual cash flows, adjusted for prepayment and credit loss estimates, based on the current rates we offer for loans with similar characteristics. 
  Loan commitments, standby letters of credit and commercial and similar letters of credit generate ongoing fees at our current pricing levels, which are recognized over the term of the commitment period. In situations where the credit quality of the counterparty to a commitment has declined, we record an allowance. A reasonable estimate of the fair value of these  

instruments is the carrying value of deferred fees plus the allowance for unfunded credit commitments.  
    
  DERIVATIVES    Quoted market prices are available and used for our exchange-traded derivatives, such as certain interest rate futures and option contracts, which we classify as Level 1. However,   substantially all   of our derivatives are traded in over-the-counter (OTC) markets where quoted market prices are not always readily available. Therefore we value most OTC derivatives using internal valuation techniques. Valuation techniques and inputs to internally-developed models depend on the type of derivative and nature of the underlying rate, price or index upon which the derivative s value is based. Key inputs can include yield curves, credit curves, foreign exchange rates, prepayment rates, volatility measurements and correlation of such inputs. Where model inputs can be observed in a liquid market and the model does not require significant judgment, such derivatives are typically classified as Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Examples of derivatives classified as Level 2 include generic interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, commodity swaps, and certain option and forward contracts. When instruments are traded in less liquid markets and significant inputs are unobservable, such derivatives are classified as Level 3. Examples of derivatives classified as Level 3 include complex and highly structured derivatives, certain credit default swaps, interest rate lock commitments written for our mortgage loans that we intend to sell and long-dated equity options where volatility is not observable. Additionally, significant judgments are required when classifying financial instruments within the fair value hierarchy, particularly between Level 2 and 3, as is the case for certain derivatives. 
    
  MSRs AND CERTAIN OTHER INTERESTS HELD IN SECURITIZATIONS    MSRs and certain other interests held in securitizations (e.g., interest-only strips) do not trade in an active market with readily observable prices. Accordingly, we determine the fair value of MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income cash flows. The model incorporates assumptions that market participants use in estimating future net servicing income cash flows, including estimates of prepayment speeds (including housing price volatility), discount rates, default rates, cost to service (including delinquency and foreclosure costs), escrow account earnings, contractual servicing fee income, ancillary income and late fees. Commercial MSRs are carried at LOCOM and, therefore, can be subject to fair value measurements on a nonrecurring basis. Changes in the fair value of MSRs occur primarily due to the collection/realization of expected cash flows as well as changes in valuation inputs and assumptions. For other interests held in securitizations (such as interest-only strips), we use a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future cash flows. The model incorporates our own estimates of assumptions market participants use in determining the fair value, including estimates of prepayment speeds, discount rates, defaults and contractual fee income. Interest-only strips are recorded as trading assets. Our valuation approach is validated by our internal valuation model validation group. Fair value measurements of our MSRs and interest-only strips use significant unobservable inputs and, accordingly, we classify them as Level 3.  
    
  FORECLOSED ASSETS    Foreclosed assets are carried at net realizable value, which represents fair value less costs to sell. Fair value is generally based upon independent market prices or  

Note 17:    Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities   (continued) 

appraised values of the collateral and, accordingly, we classify foreclosed assets as Level 2. 
    
  NONMARKETABLE EQUITY INVESTMENTS    For certain equity securities that are not publicly traded, we have elected the fair value option, and we use a market comparable pricing technique to estimate their fair value. The remaining nonmarketable equity investments include low income housing tax credit investments, Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) stock, and private equity investments that are recorded under the cost or equity method of accounting. We estimate fair value to record OTTI write-downs on a nonrecurring basis. Additionally, we provide fair value estimates in this disclosure for cost method investments that are not measured at fair value on a recurring or nonrecurring basis.  
  Federal Bank stock carrying values approximate fair value. Of the remaining cost or equity method investments for which we determine fair value, we estimate the fair value using all available information and consider the range of potential inputs including discounted cash flow models, transaction prices, trading multiples of comparable public companies, and entry level multiples. Where appropriate these metrics are adjusted to account for comparative differences with public companies and for company-specific issues like liquidity or marketability. For investments in private equity funds, we generally use the NAV provided by the fund sponsor as a practical expedient to measure fair value. In some cases, NAVs may require adjustments based on certain unobservable inputs.    
    
  Liabilities 
  DEPOSIT LIABILITIES    Deposit liabilities are carried at historical cost. The fair value of deposits with no stated maturity, such as noninterest-bearing demand deposits, interest-bearing checking, and market rate and other savings, is equal to the amount payable on demand at the measurement date. The fair value of other time deposits is calculated based on the discounted value of contractual cash flows. The discount rate is estimated using the rates currently offered for like wholesale deposits with similar remaining maturities. 
    
  SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL LIABILITIES    Short-term financial liabilities are carried at historical cost and include federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements, commercial paper and other short-term borrowings. The carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value because of the relatively short time between the origination of the instrument and its expected realization. 
    
  OTHER LIABILITIES    Other liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis   predominantly   include short sale liabilities. Short sale liabilities are   predominantly   classified as either Level 1 or Level 2, generally depending upon whether the underlying securities have readily obtainable quoted prices in active exchange markets. 
    
  LONG-TERM DEBT    Long-term debt is generally carried at amortized cost. For disclosure, we are required to estimate the fair value of long-term debt and generally do so using the discounted cash flow method. Contractual cash flows are discounted using rates currently offered for new notes with similar remaining maturities and, as such, these discount rates include our current spread levels.   

Level 3 Asset and Liability Valuation Processes 
  We generally determine fair value of our Level 3 assets and liabilities by using internally-developed models and, to a lesser extent, prices obtained from vendors, which predominantly consist of third-party pricing services. Our valuation processes vary depending on which approach is utilized. 
    
  INTERNAL MODEL VALUATIONS    Our internally-developed models   largely   use discounted cash flow techniques. Use of such techniques requires determining relevant inputs, some of which are unobservable. Unobservable inputs are generally derived from historic performance of similar assets or determined from previous market trades in similar instruments. These unobservable inputs usually consist of discount rates, default rates, loss severity upon default, volatilities, correlations and prepayment rates, which are inherent within our Level 3 instruments. Such inputs can be correlated to similar portfolios with known historic experience or recent trades where particular unobservable inputs may be implied, but due to the nature of various inputs being reflected within a particular trade, the value of each input is considered unobservable. We attempt to correlate each unobservable input to historic experience and other third-party data where available. 
  Internal valuation models are subject to review prescribed within our model risk management policies and procedures, which include model validation. The purpose of model validation includes ensuring the model is appropriate for its intended use and the appropriate controls exist to help mitigate risk of invalid valuations. Model validation assesses the adequacy and appropriateness of the model, including reviewing its key components, such as inputs, processing components, logic or theory, output results and supporting model documentation. Validation also includes ensuring significant unobservable model inputs are appropriate given observable market transactions or other market data within the same or similar asset classes. This process ensures modeled approaches are appropriate given similar product valuation techniques and are in line with their intended purpose. 
  We have ongoing monitoring procedures in place for our Level 3 assets and liabilities that use such internal valuation models. These procedures, which are designed to provide reasonable assurance that models continue to perform as expected after approved, include: 
             
    ongoing analysis and benchmarking to market transactions and other independent market data (including pricing vendors, if available); 
                
    back-testing of modeled fair values to actual realized transactions; and 
                
    review of modeled valuation results against expectations, including review of significant or unusual value fluctuations. 
       
  We update model inputs and methodologies periodically to reflect these monitoring procedures. Additionally, procedures and controls are in place to ensure existing models are subject to periodic reviews, and we perform full model revalidations as necessary. 
  All internal valuation models are subject to ongoing review by business-unit-level management, and all models are subject to additional oversight by a corporate-level risk management department. Corporate oversight responsibilities include evaluating the adequacy of business unit risk management programs, maintaining company-wide model validation policies and standards and reporting the results of these activities to management and our Corporate Model Risk Committee. This committee consists of senior executive management and reports  

on top model risk issues to the Company s Risk Committee of the Board. 
    
  VENDOR-DEVELOPED VALUATIONS    In certain limited circumstances, we obtain pricing from third-party vendors for the value of our Level 3 assets or liabilities. We have processes in place to approve such vendors to ensure information obtained and valuation techniques used are appropriate. Once these vendors are approved to provide pricing information, we monitor and review the results to ensure the fair values are reasonable and in line with market experience in similar asset classes. While the input amounts used by the pricing vendor in determining fair value are not provided, and therefore unavailable for our review, we do perform one or more of the following procedures to validate the prices received: 
             
    comparison to other pricing vendors (if available); 
                
    variance analysis of prices; 
                
    corroboration of pricing by reference to other independent market data, such as market transactions and relevant benchmark indices; 
                
    review of pricing by Company personnel familiar with market liquidity and other market-related conditions; and 
                
    investigation of prices on a specific instrument-by-instrument basis. 

Fair Value Measurements from Vendors 
  For certain assets and liabilities, we obtain fair value measurements from vendors, which   predominantly   consist of third-party pricing services, and record the unadjusted fair value in our financial statements. For instruments where we utilize vendor prices to record the price of an instrument, we perform additional procedures (see the  Vendor-Developed Valuations  section). Methodologies employed, controls relied upon and inputs used by third-party pricing vendors are subject to additional review when such services are provided. This review may consist of, in part, obtaining and evaluating control reports issued and pricing methodology materials distributed.  
  Table 17.1   presents unadjusted fair value measurements provided by brokers or third-party pricing services by fair value hierarchy level . Fair value measurements obtained from brokers or third-party pricing services that we have adjusted to determine the fair value recorded in our financial statements are excluded from   Table 17.1  . 

Table 17.1:      Fair Value Measurements by Brokers or Third-Party Pricing Services    

(1) 
    Includes corporate debt securities, collateralized loan and other debt obligations, asset-backed securities, and other debt securities. 
              (2) 
    Includes short sale liabilities and other liabilities. 

Note 17:    Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities   (continued) 

Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 

Table 17.2   presents the balances of assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. 

Table 17.2:      Fair Value on a Recurring Basis    

(1) 
    Net gains from trading activities recognized in the income statement for the year ended   December 31, 2017  , include   $2.1 billion   in net unrealized gains on trading securities held at   December 31, 2017  .  
              (2) 
    Includes collateralized debt obligations of   $1.0 billion  . 
              (3) 
    Balance primarily consists of securities that are investment grade based on ratings received from the ratings agencies or internal credit grades categorized as investment grade if external ratings are not available. The securities are classified as Level 3 due to limited market activity. 
              (4) 
    Represents balance sheet netting of derivative asset and liability balances and related cash collateral. See Note 16 (Derivatives) for additional information. 
              (5) 
    Consists of certain nonmarketable equity investments that are measured at fair value using NAV per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient and are excluded from the fair value hierarchy. 
       
  (continued on following page) 

(continued from previous page) 

(1) 
    Net gains from trading activities recognized in the income statement for the year ended   December 31, 2016  , include   $820 million   in net unrealized gains on trading securities held at   December 31, 2016  . 
              (2) 
    Balances consist of securities that are mostly investment grade based on ratings received from the ratings agencies or internal credit grades categorized as investment grade if external ratings are not available. The securities are classified as Level 3 due to limited market activity. 
              (3) 
    Includes collateralized debt obligations of   $847 million  .  
              (4) 
    Represents balance sheet netting of derivative asset and liability balances and related cash collateral. See Note 16 (Derivatives) for additional information. 
              (5) 
    Consists of certain nonmarketable equity investments that are measured at fair value using NAV per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient and are excluded from the fair value hierarchy. 

Note 17:    Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities   (continued) 

Changes in Fair Value Levels 
  We monitor the availability of observable market data to assess the appropriate classification of financial instruments within the fair value hierarchy and transfer between Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3 accordingly. Observable market data includes but is not limited to quoted prices and market transactions. Changes in economic conditions or market liquidity generally will drive changes in availability of observable market data. Changes in  

availability of observable market data, which also may result in changing the valuation technique used, are generally the cause of transfers between Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3. 
  Transfers into and out of Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3 are provided within   Table 17.3   for the periods presented. The amounts reported as transfers represent the fair value as of the beginning of the quarter in which the transfer occurred.  

Table 17.3:      Transfers Between Fair Value Levels    

(1) 
    All transfers in and out of Level 3 are disclosed within the recurring Level 3 rollforward tables in this Note. 
              (2) 
    Includes transfers of net derivative assets and net derivative liabilities between levels due to changes in observable market data. 
              (3) 
    Transfers out of Level 3 exclude   $640 million   in auction rate perpetual preferred equity securities that were transferred in second quarter 2015 from available-for-sale securities to nonmarketable equity investments in other assets. See Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets) for additional information.  

The changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the year ended   December 31, 2017  , are presented in   Table 17.4  . 
    
  Table 17.4:      Changes in Level 3 Fair Value Assets and Liabilities on a Recurring Basis    2017    

(2) 
    Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and management s estimates of fair value and excludes changes due to the collection/realization of cash flows over time. 
              (3) 
    Included in net gains (losses) from trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
              (4) 
    Included in net gains (losses) from debt securities in the income statement. 
              (5) 
    Included in net gains (losses) from equity investments in the income statement. 
              (6) 
    Included in mortgage banking and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
              (7) 
    For more information on the changes in mortgage servicing rights, see Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities). 
              (8) 
    Included in mortgage banking, trading activities, equity investments and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
       
  (continued on following page) 

Note 17:    Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities   (continued) 

(continued from previous page) 
    
  Table 17.5   presents gross purchases, sales, issuances and settlements related to the changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the year ended   December 31, 2017  . 
    
  Table 17.5:      Gross Purchases, Sales, Issuances and Settlements   Level 3   2017 

(1) 
    For more information on the changes in mortgage servicing rights, see Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities). 

The changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the year ended   December 31, 2016  , are presented in   Table 17.6  . 
    
  Table 17.6:      Changes in Level 3 Fair Value Assets and Liabilities on a Recurring Basis   2016    

            (2) 
    Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and management s estimates of fair value and excludes changes due to the collection/realization of cash flows over time. 
              (3) 
    Included in net gains (losses) from trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
              (4) 
    Included in net gains (losses) from debt securities in the income statement. 
              (5) 
    Included in net gains (losses) from equity investments in the income statement. 
              (6) 
    Included in mortgage banking and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
              (7) 
    For more information on the changes in mortgage servicing rights, see Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities). 
              (8) 
    Included in mortgage banking, trading activities, equity investments and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
       
  (continued on following page) 

Note 17:    Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities   (continued) 

(continued from previous page) 
    
  Table 17.7   presents gross purchases, sales, issuances and settlements related to the changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the year ended   December 31, 2016  . 
    
  Table 17.7:      Gross Purchases, Sales, Issuances and Settlements   Level 3   2016    

           (1) 
    For more information on the changes in mortgage servicing rights, see Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities). 

The changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the year ended   December 31, 2015   are presented in   Table 17.8  . 
    
  Table 17.8:      Changes in Level 3 Fair Value Assets and Liabilities on a Recurring Basis   2015    
   
            (2) 
    Represents only net gains (losses) that are due to changes in economic conditions and management s estimates of fair value and excludes changes due to the collection/realization of cash flows over time. 
              (3) 
    Included in net gains (losses) from trading activities and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
              (4) 
    Included in net gains (losses) from debt securities in the income statement. 
              (5) 
    Included in net gains (losses) from equity investments in the income statement. 
              (6) 
    Included in mortgage banking and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
              (7) 
    For more information on the changes in mortgage servicing rights, see Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities). 
              (8) 
    Included in mortgage banking, trading activities, equity investments and other noninterest income in the income statement. 
       
  (continued on following page) 

Note 17:    Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities   (continued) 

(continued from previous page) 
    
  Table 17.9   presents gross purchases, sales, issuances and settlements related to the changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the year ended   December 31, 2015  .  
    
  Table 17.9:      Gross Purchases, Sales, Issuances and Settlements   Level 3   2015    

           (1) 
    For more information on the changes in mortgage servicing rights, see Note 9 (Mortgage Banking Activities). 
       
    Table 17.10   and   Table 17.11   provide quantitative information about the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation of substantially all of our Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for which we use an internal model. 
  The significant unobservable inputs for Level 3 assets and liabilities that are valued using fair values obtained from third party vendors are not included in the table, as the specific inputs applied are not provided by the vendor (see discussion regarding vendor-developed valuations within the  Level 3 Asset and Liability Valuation Processes  section previously within this Note). In addition, the table excludes the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs for certain classes of Level 3  

assets and liabilities measured using an internal model that we consider, both individually and in the aggregate, insignificant relative to our overall Level 3 assets and liabilities. We made this determination based upon an evaluation of each class, which considered the magnitude of the positions, nature of the unobservable inputs and potential for significant changes in fair value due to changes in those inputs  . 

Table 17.10:      Valuation Techniques   Recurring Basis   2017    

(1) 
    Weighted averages are calculated using outstanding unpaid principal balance for cash instruments, such as loans and securities, and notional amounts for derivative instruments. 
              (2) 
    Includes   $1.0 billion   of collateralized debt obligations. 
              (3) 
    Securities backed by specified sources of current and future receivables generated from foreign originators. 
              (4) 
    A significant portion of the balance consists of investments in asset-backed securities that are revolving in nature, for which the timing of advances and repayments of principal are uncertain. 
              (5) 
    Consists of reverse mortgage loans. 
              (6) 
    The high end of the range of inputs is for servicing modified loans. For non-modified loans the range is   $78   -   $252  . 
              (7) 
    Includes a blend of prepayment speeds and expected defaults. Prepayment speeds are influenced by mortgage interest rates as well as our estimation of drivers of borrower behavior. 
              (8) 
    Represents the aggregate amount of Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis that are individually and in the aggregate insignificant. The amount includes corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, other trading assets, other liabilities and certain net derivative assets and liabilities, such as commodity contracts, foreign exchange contracts, and other derivative contracts. 
              (9) 
    Consists of total Level 3 assets of   $24.9 billion   and total Level 3 liabilities of   $2.0 billion  , before netting of derivative balances. 

Note 17:    Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities   (continued) 

Table 17.11:      Valuation Techniques   Recurring Basis   2016    

           (1) 
    Weighted averages are calculated using outstanding unpaid principal balance for cash instruments such as loans and securities, and notional amounts for derivative instruments. 
              (2) 
    Includes   $847 million   of collateralized debt obligations. 
              (3) 
    Securities backed by specified sources of current and future receivables generated from foreign originators.  
              (4) 
    A significant portion of the balance consists of investments in asset-backed securities that are revolving in nature, for which the timing of advances and repayments of principal are uncertain. 
              (5) 
    Consists of reverse mortgage loans. 
              (6) 
    The high end of the range of inputs is for servicing modified loans. For non-modified loans the range is   $79   -   $293  . 
              (7) 
    Includes a blend of prepayment speeds and expected defaults. Prepayment speeds are influenced by mortgage interest rates as well as our estimation of drivers of borrower behavior. 
              (8) 
    Represents the aggregate amount of Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis that are individually and in the aggregate insignificant. The amount includes corporate debt securities, mortgage-backed securities, other trading assets, other liabilities and certain net derivative assets and liabilities, such as commodity contracts, foreign exchange contracts, and other derivative contracts.  
              (9) 
    Consists of total Level 3 assets of   $23.5 billion   and total Level 3 liabilities of   $1.7 billion  , before netting of derivative balances. 

The valuation techniques used for our Level 3 assets and liabilities, as presented in the previous tables, are described as follows:  
             
    Discounted cash flow     Discounted cash flow valuation techniques generally consist of developing an estimate of future cash flows that are expected to occur over the life of an instrument and then discounting those cash flows at a rate of return that results in the fair value amount. 
                
    Market comparable pricing     Market comparable pricing valuation techniques are used to determine the fair value of certain instruments by incorporating known inputs, such as recent transaction prices, pending transactions, or prices of other similar investments that require significant adjustment to reflect differences in instrument characteristics. 
                
    Option model     Option model valuation techniques are generally used for instruments in which the holder has a contingent right or obligation based on the occurrence of a future event, such as the price of a referenced asset going above or below a predetermined strike price. Option models estimate the likelihood of the specified event occurring by incorporating assumptions such as volatility estimates, price of the underlying instrument and expected rate of return. 
                
    Vendor-priced      Prices obtained from third party pricing vendors or brokers that are used to record the fair value of the asset or liability for which the related valuation technique and significant unobservable inputs are not provided. 
       
  Significant unobservable inputs presented in the previous tables are those we consider significant to the fair value of the Level 3 asset or liability. We consider unobservable inputs to be significant if by their exclusion the fair value of the Level 3 asset or liability would be impacted by a predetermined percentage change. We also consider qualitative factors, such as nature of the instrument, type of valuation technique used, and the significance of the unobservable inputs relative to other inputs used within the valuation. Following is a description of the significant unobservable inputs provided in the table.  
             
    Comparability adjustment     is an adjustment made to observed market data, such as a transaction price in order to reflect dissimilarities in underlying collateral, issuer, rating, or other factors used within a market valuation approach, expressed as a percentage of an observed price. 
                
    Conversion Factor     is the risk-adjusted rate in which a particular instrument may be exchanged for another instrument upon settlement, expressed as a percentage change from a specified rate. 
                
    Correlation factor     is the likelihood of one instrument changing in price relative to another based on an established relationship expressed as a percentage of relative change in price over a period over time. 

Cost to service     is the expected cost per loan of servicing a portfolio of loans, which includes estimates for unreimbursed expenses (including delinquency and foreclosure costs) that may occur as a result of servicing such loan portfolios. 
                
    Credit spread     is the portion of the interest rate in excess of a benchmark interest rate, such as Overnight Index Swap (OIS), LIBOR or U.S. Treasury rates, that when applied to an investment captures changes in the obligor s creditworthiness. 
                
    Default rate     is an estimate of the likelihood of not collecting contractual amounts owed expressed as a constant default rate (CDR). 
                
    Discount rate     is a rate of return used to calculate the present value of the future expected cash flow to arrive at the fair value of an instrument. The discount rate consists of a benchmark rate component and a risk premium component. The benchmark rate component, for example, OIS, LIBOR or U.S. Treasury rates, is generally observable within the market and is necessary to appropriately reflect the time value of money. The risk premium component reflects the amount of compensation market participants require due to the uncertainty inherent in the instruments  cash flows resulting from risks such as credit and liquidity. 
                
    Fall-out factor     is the expected percentage of loans associated with our interest rate lock commitment portfolio that are likely of not funding. 
                
    Initial-value servicing     is the estimated value of the underlying loan, including the value attributable to the embedded servicing right, expressed in basis points of outstanding unpaid principal balance. 
                
    Loss severity     is the estimated percentage of contractual cash flows lost in the event of a default. 
                
    Prepayment rate     is the estimated rate at which forecasted prepayments of principal of the related loan or debt instrument are expected to occur, expressed as a constant prepayment rate (CPR). 
                
    Utilization rate     is the estimated rate in which incremental portions of existing reverse mortgage credit lines are expected to be drawn by borrowers, expressed as an annualized rate. 
                
    Volatility factor     is the extent of change in price an item is estimated to fluctuate over a specified period of time expressed as a percentage of relative change in price over a period over time. 
                
    Weighted average life     is the weighted average number of years an investment is expected to remain outstanding based on its expected cash flows reflecting the estimated date the issuer will call or extend the maturity of the instrument or otherwise reflecting an estimate of the timing of an instrument s cash flows whose timing is not contractually fixed. 

Note 17:    Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities   (continued) 

Significant Recurring Level 3 Fair Value Asset and Liability Input Sensitivity 
  We generally use discounted cash flow or similar internal modeling techniques to determine the fair value of our Level 3 assets and liabilities. Use of these techniques requires determination of relevant inputs and assumptions, some of which represent significant unobservable inputs as indicated in the preceding tables. Accordingly, changes in these unobservable inputs may have a significant impact on fair value. 
  Certain of these unobservable inputs will (in isolation) have a directionally consistent impact on the fair value of the instrument for a given change in that input. Alternatively, the fair value of the instrument may move in an opposite direction for a given change in another input. Where multiple inputs are used within the valuation technique of an asset or liability, a change in one input in a certain direction may be offset by an opposite change in another input having a potentially muted impact to the overall fair value of that particular instrument. Additionally, a change in one unobservable input may result in a change to another unobservable input (that is, changes in certain inputs are interrelated to one another), which may counteract or magnify the fair value impact. 
    
  SECURITIES, LOANS, MORTGAGES HELD FOR SALE and NONMARKETABLE EQUITY INVESTMENTS    The fair values of predominantly all Level 3 trading securities, mortgages held for sale, loans, other nonmarketable equity investments, and available-for-sale securities have consistent inputs, valuation techniques and correlation to changes in underlying inputs. The internal models used to determine fair value for these Level 3 instruments use certain significant unobservable inputs within a discounted cash flow or market comparable pricing valuation technique. Such inputs include discount rate, prepayment rate, default rate, loss severity, utilization rate, comparability adjustment and weighted average life. 
  These Level 3 assets would decrease (increase) in value based upon an increase (decrease) in discount rate, default rate, loss severity, or weighted average life inputs and would generally decrease (increase) in value based upon an increase (decrease) in prepayment rate. Conversely, the fair value of these Level 3 assets would generally increase (decrease) in value if the utilization rate input were to increase (decrease). 
  Generally, a change in the assumption used for default rate is accompanied by a directionally similar change in the risk premium component of the discount rate (specifically, the portion related to credit risk) and a directionally opposite change in the assumption used for prepayment rates. The comparability adjustment input may have a positive or negative impact on fair value depending on the change in fair value the comparability adjustment references. Unobservable inputs for comparability adjustment, loss severity, utilization rate and weighted average life do not increase or decrease based on movements in the other significant unobservable inputs for these Level 3 assets. 

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS      Level 3 derivative instruments are valued using market comparable pricing, option pricing and discounted cash flow valuation techniques. We utilize certain unobservable inputs within these techniques to determine the fair value of the Level 3 derivative instruments. The significant unobservable inputs consist of credit spread, a comparability adjustment, prepayment rate, default rate, loss severity, initial-value servicing, fall-out factor, volatility factor, weighted average life, conversion factor, and correlation factor. 
  Level 3 derivative assets (liabilities) where we are long the underlying would decrease (increase) in value upon an increase (decrease) in default rate, fall-out factor, credit spread, conversion factor, or loss severity inputs. Conversely, Level 3 derivative assets (liabilities) would generally increase (decrease) in value upon an increase (decrease) in prepayment rate, initial-value servicing, weighted average life, or volatility factor inputs. The inverse of the above relationships would occur for instruments in which we are short the underlying. The correlation factor and comparability adjustment inputs may have a positive or negative impact on the fair value of these derivative instruments depending on the change in value of the item the correlation factor and comparability adjustment is referencing. The correlation factor and comparability adjustment are considered independent from movements in other significant unobservable inputs for derivative instruments. 
  Generally, for derivative instruments for which we are subject to changes in the value of the underlying referenced instrument, a change in the assumption used for default rate is accompanied by directionally similar change in the risk premium component of the discount rate (specifically, the portion related to credit risk) and a directionally opposite change in the assumption used for prepayment rates. Unobservable inputs for loss severity, fall-out factor, initial-value servicing, weighted average life, conversion factor, and volatility do not increase or decrease based on movements in other significant unobservable inputs for these Level 3 instruments. 
    
  MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS      We use a discounted cash flow valuation technique to determine the fair value of Level 3 mortgage servicing rights. These models utilize certain significant unobservable inputs including prepayment rate, discount rate and costs to service. An increase in any of these unobservable inputs will reduce the fair value of the mortgage servicing rights and alternatively, a decrease in any one of these inputs would result in the mortgage servicing rights increasing in value. Generally, a change in the assumption used for the default rate is accompanied by a directionally similar change in the assumption used for cost to service and a directionally opposite change in the assumption used for prepayment. The sensitivity of our residential MSRs is discussed further in Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities). 

Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 
  We may be required, from time to time, to measure certain assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in accordance with GAAP. These adjustments to fair value usually result from application of LOCOM accounting or write-downs of individual  

assets.   Table 17.12   provides the fair value hierarchy and carrying amount of all assets that were still held as of   December 31, 2017  , and   2016  , and for which a nonrecurring fair value adjustment was recorded during the years then ended. 

Table 17.12:      Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis    

(1) 
    Consists of commercial mortgages and residential real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loans. 
              (2) 
    Represents the carrying value of loans for which nonrecurring adjustments are based on the appraised value of the collateral. 
              (3) 
    Includes the fair value of foreclosed real estate, other collateral owned, operating lease assets and nonmarketable equity investments.  
              (4) 
    Consists of certain nonmarketable equity investments that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis using NAV per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient and are excluded from the fair value hierarchy. 
       Table 17.13   presents the increase (decrease) in value of certain assets held at the end of the respective reporting periods presented for which a nonrecurring fair value adjustment was recognized during the periods presented. 
    
  Table 17.13:      Change in Value of Assets with Nonrecurring Fair Value Adjustment    

(1) 
    Represents write-downs of loans based on the appraised value of the collateral. 
              (2) 
    Includes the losses on foreclosed real estate and other collateral owned that were measured at fair value subsequent to their initial classification as foreclosed assets. Also includes impairment losses on nonmarketable equity investments.  

Note 17:    Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities   (continued) 

Table 17.14   provides quantitative information about the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation of substantially all of our Level 3 assets that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis using an internal model. The table is limited to financial instruments that had nonrecurring fair value adjustments during the periods presented. 
  We have excluded from the table valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs for certain classes of Level 3  

assets measured using an internal model that we consider, both individually and in the aggregate, insignificant relative to our overall Level 3 nonrecurring measurements. We made this determination based upon an evaluation of each class that considered the magnitude of the positions, nature of the unobservable inputs and potential for significant changes in fair value due to changes in those inputs. 

Table 17.14:      Valuation Techniques   Nonrecurring Basis    

(1) 
    Refer to the narrative following   Table 17.11   for a definition of the valuation technique(s) and significant unobservable inputs. 
              (2) 
    For residential MHFS, weighted averages are calculated using the outstanding unpaid principal balance of the loans. 
               (4) 
    Applies only to non-government insured/guaranteed loans. 
              (5) 
    Includes the impact on prepayment rate of expected defaults for government insured/guaranteed loans, which impact the frequency and timing of early resolution of loans. 

Alternative Investments 
  We hold certain nonmarketable equity investments for which we use NAV per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient for fair value measurements, including estimated fair values for investments accounted for under the cost method. The investments consist of private equity funds that invest in equity and debt securities issued by private and publicly-held companies. The fair values of these investments and related unfunded commitments totaled   $30 million   and   $23 million  , respectively, at   December 31, 2017  , and   $48 million   and   $37 million  , respectively, at   December 31, 2016  . The investments do not allow redemptions. We receive distributions as the underlying assets of the funds liquidate, which we expect to occur through   2025  . 

Fair Value Option 
  The fair value option is an irrevocable election, generally only permitted upon initial recognition of financial assets or liabilities, to measure eligible financial instruments at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in earnings. We may elect the fair value option to align the measurement model with how the financial assets or liabilities are managed or to reduce complexity or accounting asymmetry. Following is a discussion of the portfolios for which we elected the fair value option. 
    
  TRADING ASSETS - LOANS    We engage in holding loans for market-making purposes to support the buying and selling demands of our customers. These loans are generally held for a short period of time and managed within parameters of internally approved market risk limits. We have elected to measure and carry them at fair value, which best aligns with our risk management practices. Fair value for these loans is generally determined using readily available market data based on recent transaction prices for similar loans.  
    
  MORTGAGES HELD FOR SALE (MHFS)    We measure MHFS at fair value for MHFS originations for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist to reliably support fair value pricing models used for these loans. Loan origination fees on these loans are recorded when earned, and related direct loan origination costs are recognized when incurred. We also measure at fair value certain of our other interests held related to residential loan sales and securitizations. We believe fair value measurement for MHFS and other interests held, which we hedge with economic hedge derivatives along with our MSRs measured at fair value, reduces certain timing differences and better matches changes in the value of these assets with changes in the value of derivatives used as economic hedges for these assets. 

LOANS HELD FOR SALE (LHFS)      We elected to measure certain LHFS portfolios at fair value in conjunction with customer accommodation activities, which better aligns the measurement basis of the assets held with our management objectives given the trading nature of these portfolios.  
    
  LOANS    Loans that we measure at fair value consist predominantly of reverse mortgage loans previously transferred under a GNMA reverse mortgage securitization program accounted for as a secured borrowing. Before the transfer, they were classified as MHFS measured at fair value and, as such, remain carried on our balance sheet under the fair value option. 
    
  OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS    We elected to measure at fair value certain nonmarketable equity securities that are hedged with derivative instruments to better reflect the economics of the transactions. These securities are included in other assets. 
  Similarly, we may elect fair value option for the assets and liabilities of certain newly consolidated VIEs if our interests, prior to consolidation, are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded to earnings. Accordingly, such an election allows us to continue fair value accounting through earnings for those interests and eliminate income statement mismatch otherwise caused by differences in the measurement basis of the consolidated VIEs assets and liabilities. 
  Table 17.15   reflects differences between the fair value carrying amount of the assets for which we have elected the fair value option and the contractual aggregate unpaid principal amount at maturity. 

Table 17.15:      Fair Value Option    

(1) 
    Consists of nonmarketable equity investments carried at fair value. See Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets) for more information. 

Note 17:    Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities   (continued) 

The assets accounted for under the fair value option are initially measured at fair value. Gains and losses from initial measurement and subsequent changes in fair value are recognized in earnings. The changes in fair value related to initial measurement and subsequent changes in fair value included in earnings for these assets measured at fair value are shown in   Table 17.16   by income statement line item. 

Table 17.16:      Fair Value Option   Changes in Fair Value Included in Earnings 

(1) 
    Includes retained interests in securitizations. 
       
    For performing loans, instrument-specific credit risk gains or losses were derived principally by determining the change in fair value of the loans due to changes in the observable or implied credit spread. Credit spread is the market yield on the loans less the relevant risk-free benchmark interest rate. For nonperforming loans, we attribute all changes in fair value to instrument-specific credit risk.   Table 17.17   shows the estimated gains and losses from earnings attributable to instrument-specific credit risk related to assets accounted for under the fair value option. 
    
  Table 17.17:      Fair Value Option   Gains/Losses Attributable to Instrument-Specific Credit Risk     

Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
  Table 17.18   is a summary of fair value estimates for financial instruments, excluding financial instruments recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, as they are included within   Table 17.2   in this Note. The carrying amounts in the following table are recorded on the balance sheet under the indicated captions, except for nonmarketable equity investments, which are included in other assets. 

We have not included assets and liabilities that are not financial instruments in our disclosure, such as the value of the long-term relationships with our deposit, credit card and trust customers, amortized MSRs, premises and equipment, goodwill and other intangibles, deferred taxes and other liabilities. The total of the fair value calculations presented does not represent, and should not be construed to represent, the underlying value of the Company. 

Table 17.18:      Fair Value Estimates for Financial Instruments    

(1) 
    Amounts consist of financial instruments for which carrying value approximates fair value. 
              (2) 
    Excludes MHFS for which we elected the fair value option. 
               (4) 
    Consists of certain nonmarketable equity investments for which estimated fair values are determined using NAV per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient and are excluded from the fair value hierarchy. 
               (6) 
    The fair value classification level of certain interest-earning deposits have been reclassified to conform with the current period end classification. 

Note 17:    Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities   (continued) 

Loan commitments, standby letters of credit and commercial and similar letters of credit are not included in   Table 17.18  . A reasonable estimate of the fair value of these instruments is the carrying value of deferred fees plus the allowance for unfunded credit commitments, which totaled  

$1.0 billion   and   $1.2 billion   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. 

Note 18:    Preferred Stock 

We are authorized to issue   20 million   shares of preferred stock and   4 million   shares of preference stock, both without par value. Preferred shares outstanding rank senior to common shares both as to dividends and liquidation preference but have no general voting rights. We have not issued any preference shares  

under this authorization. If issued, preference shares would be limited to   one   vote per share. Our total authorized, issued and outstanding preferred stock is presented in the following two tables along with the Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. 

Table 18.1:      Preferred Stock Shares    

(1) 
    On January 26, 2017, we filed with the Delaware Secretary of State a Certificate Eliminating the Certificate of Designations with respect to the Series H preferred Stock. 
              (2) 
    See the ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock section of this Note for additional information about the liquidation preference for the ESOP Cumulative Preferred Stock. 

Table 18.2:      Preferred Stock   Shares Issued and Carrying Value    

(1) 
    Preferred shares qualify as Tier 1 capital. 
         
  In April 2017, we issued   27.6 million   Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series Y, for an aggregate public offering price of   $690 million  . 
  See Note 8 (Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities) for additional information on our trust preferred securities. 

Note 18:    Preferred Stock   (continued) 

ESOP CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK    All shares of our ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (ESOP Preferred Stock) were issued to a trustee acting on behalf of the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan (the 401(k) Plan). Dividends on the ESOP Preferred Stock are cumulative from the date of initial issuance and are payable quarterly at annual rates based upon the year of issuance. Each share of ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated reserve of the 401(k) Plan is converted into shares of our common stock based on the stated value of the ESOP Preferred Stock and the then current market  

price of our common stock. The ESOP Preferred Stock is also convertible at the option of the holder at any time, unless previously redeemed. We have the option to redeem the ESOP Preferred Stock at any time, in whole or in part, at a redemption price per share equal to the higher of (a)   $1,000   per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends or (b) the fair market value, as defined in the Certificates of Designation for the ESOP Preferred Stock. 

Table 18.3:      ESOP Preferred Stock    

(2) 
    We recorded a corresponding charge to unearned ESOP shares in connection with the issuance of the ESOP Preferred Stock. The unearned ESOP shares are reduced as shares of the ESOP Preferred Stock are committed to be released. 

Note 19:    Common Stock and Stock Plans 

Common Stock 
  Table 19.1   presents our reserved, issued and authorized shares of common stock at   December 31, 2017  . 
    
  Table 19.1:      Common Stock Shares    

(1) 
    Includes employee options, restricted shares and restricted share rights,     401(k) profit sharing and compensation deferral plans. 
       
  At   December 31, 2017  , we had   23,327,854   warrants outstanding and exercisable to purchase shares of our common stock with an exercise price of   $33.701   per share, expiring on October 28, 2018. The terms of the warrants require that the number of shares entitled to be purchased upon exercise of a warrant be adjusted under certain circumstances. At   December 31, 2017  , each warrant was exercisable to purchase approximately   1.01   shares of our common stock. We purchased   none   of these warrants in   2017   or   2016  . Holders exercised   9,774,052   and   1,714,726   warrants to purchase shares of our common stock in   2017   and   2016  , respectively. These warrants were issued in connection with our participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) Capital Purchase Program (CPP).  
    
  Dividend Reinvestment and Common Stock Purchase Plans 
  Participants in our dividend reinvestment and common stock direct purchase plans may purchase shares of our common stock at fair market value by reinvesting dividends and/or making optional cash payments, under the plan s terms. 
    
  Employee Stock Plans 
  We offer stock-based employee compensation plans as described below. For information on our accounting for stock-based compensation plans, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies). 
    
  LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS    Our Long- Term Incentive Compensation Plan (LTICP) provides for awards of incentive and nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted shares, restricted stock rights (RSRs), performance share awards (PSAs), performance units and stock awards with or without restrictions. 
  Beginning in 2010, we granted RSRs and performance shares as our primary long-term incentive awards instead of stock options. Holders of RSRs are entitled to the related shares of common stock at   no   cost generally vesting over   three   to   five   years after the RSRs were granted. Subject to compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, RSRs generally continue to vest and are distributed after retirement according to the original vesting schedule. Except for retirement and other   

limited circumstances, RSRs are canceled when employment ends. 
  Holders of each vested PSA are entitled to the related shares of common stock at   no   cost. Subject to compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, PSAs continue to vest and are distributed after retirement according to the original vesting schedule subject to satisfying the performance criteria and other vesting conditions. 
  Holders of RSRs and PSAs may be entitled to receive additional RSRs and PSAs (dividend equivalents) or cash payments equal to the cash dividends that would have been paid had the RSRs or PSAs been issued and outstanding shares of common stock. RSRs and PSAs granted as dividend equivalents are subject to the same vesting schedule and conditions as the underlying award. 
  Stock options must have an exercise price at or above fair market value (as defined in the plan) of the stock at the date of grant (except for substitute or replacement options granted in connection with mergers or other acquisitions) and a term of no more than   10 years  . Options generally become exercisable over   three years   beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant. Except as otherwise permitted under the plan, if employment is ended for reasons other than retirement, permanent disability or death, the option exercise period is reduced or the options are canceled. 
  Compensation expense for most of our RSRs, and PSAs granted prior to 2013 is based on the quoted market price of the related stock at the grant date; beginning in 2013 certain RSRs and all PSAs granted include discretionary conditions that can result in forfeiture and are subject to variable accounting. For these awards, the associated compensation expense fluctuates with changes in our stock price.   Table 19.2   summarizes the major components of stock incentive compensation expense and the related recognized tax benefit. 
    
  Table 19.2:      Stock Incentive Compensation Expense    

(1) 
    Amount for the year-ended December 31, 2017, is net of   $26 million   related to clawback credits taken against a prior PSA awarded under our LTICP. 
       
  For various acquisitions and mergers, we converted employee and director stock options of acquired or merged companies into stock options to purchase our common stock based on the terms of the original stock option plan and the agreed-upon exchange ratio. In addition, we converted restricted stock awards into awards that entitle holders to our stock after the vesting conditions are met. Holders receive cash dividends on outstanding awards if provided in the original award. 
  The total number of shares of common stock available for grant under the plans at   December 31, 2017  , was   147 million  . 

Note 19:    Common Stock and Stock Plans   (continued) 

Director Awards 
  Beginning in 2011, we granted only common stock awards under the LTICP to non-employee directors elected or re-elected at the annual meeting of stockholders and prorated awards to directors who join the Board at any other time. Stock awards vest immediately. Options also were granted to directors prior to 2011 and can be exercised after   12 months   through the   tenth   anniversary of the grant date.    
    
  Restricted Share Rights 
  A summary of the status of our RSRs and restricted share awards at   December 31, 2017  , and changes during   2017   is presented in   Table 19.3  . 
    
  Table 19.3:      Restricted Share Rights    

The weighted-average grant date fair value of RSRs granted during   2016   and   2015   was   $48.31   and   $55.34  , respectively. 
  At   December 31, 2017  , there was   $781 million   of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested RSRs. The cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of   2.4 years  . The total fair value of RSRs that vested during   2017  ,   2016   and   2015   was   $865 million  ,   $1.1 billion   and   $1.4 billion  , respectively. 

Performance Share Awards 
  Holders of PSAs are entitled to the related shares of common stock at   no   cost subject to the Company s achievement of specified performance criteria over a   three  -year period. PSAs are granted at a target number; based on the Company s performance, the number of awards that vest can be adjusted downward to   zero   and upward to a maximum of either   125%   or   150%   of target. The awards vest in the quarter after the end of the performance period. For PSAs whose performance period ended   December 31, 2017  , the determination of the number of performance shares that will vest will occur in first quarter of   2018   after review of the Company s performance by the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors. Beginning in 2013, PSAs granted include discretionary conditions that can result in forfeiture and are subject to variable accounting. For these awards, the associated compensation expense fluctuates with changes in our stock price and the estimated outcome of meeting the performance conditions. The total expense that will be recognized on these awards cannot be finalized until the determination of the awards that will vest. 
  A summary of the status of our PSAs at   December 31, 2017  , and changes during   2017   is in   Table 19.4  , based on the performance adjustments recognized as of December   2017  . 
    
  Table 19.4:      Performance Share Awards    

(1) 
    Reflects approval date fair value for grants subject to variable accounting. 
       
  The weighted-average grant date fair value of performance awards granted during   2016   and   2015   was   $44.73   and   $45.52  , respectively. 
  At   December 31, 2017  , there was   $43 million   of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested performance awards. The cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of   1.7 years  . The total fair value of PSAs that vested during   2017  ,   2016   and   2015   was   $117 million  ,   $220 million  , and   $299 million  , respectively.  

Stock Options 
  Table 19.5   summarizes stock option activity and related information for the stock plans. Options assumed in mergers are included in the activity and related information for Incentive  

Compensation Plans if originally issued under an employee plan, and in the activity and related information for Director Awards if originally issued under a director plan. 

Table 19.5:      Stock Option Activity    

The total intrinsic value to option holders, which is the stock market value in excess of the option exercise price, of options exercised during   2017  ,   2016   and   2015   was   $623 million  ,   $546 million   and   $497 million  , respectively. 
  Cash received from the exercise of stock options for   2017  ,   2016   and   2015   was   $602 million  ,   $893 million   and   $618 million  , respectively. 
  We do not have a specific policy on repurchasing shares to satisfy share option exercises. Rather, we have a general policy on repurchasing shares to meet common stock issuance requirements for our benefit plans (including share option exercises), conversion of our convertible securities, acquisitions and other corporate purposes. Various factors determine the amount and timing of our share repurchases, including our capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue for acquisitions and employee benefit plans, market conditions (including the trading price of our stock), and regulatory and legal considerations. These factors can change at any time, and there can be no assurance as to the number of shares we will repurchase or when we will repurchase them. 

Employee Stock Ownership Plan 
  The Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan (401(k) Plan) is a defined contribution plan with an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) feature. The ESOP feature enables the 401(k) Plan to borrow money to purchase our preferred or common stock. From 1994 through   2017  , with the exception of 2009, we loaned money to the 401(k) Plan to purchase shares of our ESOP preferred stock. As our employer contributions are made to the 401(k) Plan and are used by the 401(k) Plan to make ESOP loan payments, the ESOP preferred stock in the 401(k) Plan is released and converted into our common stock shares. Dividends on the common stock shares allocated as a result of the release and conversion of the ESOP preferred stock reduce retained earnings, and the shares are considered outstanding for computing earnings per share. Dividends on the unallocated ESOP preferred stock do not reduce retained earnings, and the shares are not considered to be common stock equivalents for computing earnings per share. Loan principal and interest payments are made from our employer contributions to the 401(k) Plan, along with dividends paid on the ESOP preferred stock. With each principal and interest payment, a portion of the ESOP preferred stock is released and converted to common stock shares, which are allocated to the 401(k) Plan participants and invested in the Wells Fargo ESOP Fund within the 401(k) Plan. 

Note 19:    Common Stock and Stock Plans   (continued) 

Table 19.6   presents the balance of common stock and unreleased preferred stock held in the Wells Fargo ESOP fund, the fair value of unreleased ESOP preferred stock and the  

dividends on allocated shares of common stock and unreleased ESOP Preferred Stock paid to the 401(k) Plan. 

Table 19.6:      Common Stock and Unreleased Preferred Stock in the Wells Fargo ESOP Fund    

Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Sales Agents 
  WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Parent formed solely to sponsor a deferred compensation plan for independent sales agents who provide investment, financial and other qualifying services for or with respect to participating affiliates. 

The Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors, which became effective January 1, 2002, allowed participants to defer all or part of their eligible compensation payable to them by a participating affiliate. The plan was frozen for new compensation deferrals effective January 1, 2012. The Parent has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the deferred compensation obligations of WF Deferred Compensation Holdings, Inc. under the plan.  

Note 20:    Revenue from Contracts with Customers 

Our revenue includes net interest income on financial instruments and noninterest income. Table 20.1 presents our year ended December 31, 2017, revenue by operating segment given our current accounting policies. For additional description of our operating segments, including additional financial information and the underlying management accounting process, see Note 25 (Operating Segments) to Financial Statements in this Report. 

We will reflect the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09     Revenue from Contracts with Customers   ( the new revenue guidance ) in first quarter 2018 and will include additional disaggregation of specific categories of revenue.  

Table 20.1  :    Revenue by Operating Segment     

(1) 
    Most of our revenue is not within the scope of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09     Revenue from Contracts with Customers,   and additional details are included in other footnotes to our financial statements. The scope explicitly excludes net interest income as well as many other revenues for financial assets and liabilities, including loans, leases, securities, and derivatives. 
              (2) 
    Includes the elimination of certain items that are included in more than one business segment, substantially all of which represents products and services for WIM customers served through Community Banking distribution channels. 
       
    Following is a discussion of key revenues within the scope of the new revenue guidance. We provide services to customers which have related performance obligations that we complete to recognize revenue. Our revenues are generally recognized either immediately upon the completion of our service or over time as we perform services. Any services performed over time generally require that we render services each period and therefore we measure our progress in completing these services based upon the passage of time.  
    
  SERVICE CHARGES ON DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS     are earned on depository accounts for commercial and consumer customers and include fees for account and overdraft services. Account services include fees for event-driven services and fees for periodic account maintenance activities. Our obligation for event-driven services is satisfied at the time of the event when  

the service is delivered, while our obligation for maintenance services is satisfied over the course of each month. Our obligation for overdraft services is satisfied at the time of the overdraft.  
    
  BROKERAGE ADVISORY, COMMISSIONS AND OTHER FEES   are earned for providing full-service and discount brokerage services predominantly to retail brokerage clients. These revenues include fees earned on asset-based and transactional accounts and other brokerage advisory services.  
  Asset-based revenues are charged based on the market value of the client s assets. The services associated with these revenues, which include investment advice, active management of client assets, or assistance with selecting and engaging a third-party advisory manager, are generally performed over a month or quarter. 

Note 20:    Revenue from Contracts with Customers   (continued) 

Transactional revenues are based on the size and number of transactions executed at the client s direction and are generally recognized on the trade date.  
    
  TRUST AND INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES   are earned for providing trust, investment management and other related services. 
  Trust services include acting as a trustee for corporate trust, personal trust, and agency assets. Obligations for trust services are generally satisfied over time but may be satisfied at points in time for certain activities that are transactional in nature. 
  Investment management services include managing and administering assets, including mutual funds, and institutional separate accounts. Fees for these services are generally determined based on a tiered scale relative to the market value of assets under management (AUM). In addition to AUM, we have client assets under administration (AUA) that earn various administrative fees which are generally based on the extent of the services provided to administer the account. Services with AUM and AUA-based fees are generally performed over time.  
  Other related services include the custody and safekeeping of accounts.  
    
  INVESTMENT BANKING FEES   are earned for services related to underwriting debt and equity securities, arranging loan syndications and performing other advisory services. Our performance obligation for these services is satisfied at closing of the transaction. 
    
  CARD FEES     include credit and debit card interchange and network revenues and various card-related fees. Card-related fees such as late fees, cash advance fees, and balance transfer fees are loan-related and excluded from the scope of the new revenue guidance. 

Credit and debit card interchange and network revenues are earned on credit and debit card transactions conducted through payment networks such as Visa, MasterCard, and American Express. Interchange income is recognized concurrently with the delivery of services on a daily basis. 
  Interchange and network revenues are presented net of cardholder rewards and rebates. Cardholder rewards and rebates reduced card fee revenue by   $1.2 billion  ,   $1.0 billion  , and   $863 million   for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.  
    
  CASH NETWORK FEES   are earned for processing ATM transactions. Our obligation is completed daily upon settlement of ATM transactions.  
    
  COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE BROKERAGE COMMISSIONS   are earned for assisting customers in the sale of real estate property. Revenue is recognized once the client has signed and accepted an offer for sale of the property, which is when our performance obligation is met. Fees are based on a fixed percentage of the sales price. 
    
  WIRE TRANSFER AND OTHER REMITTANCE FEES   consist of fees earned for funds transfer services and issuing cashier s checks and money orders. The payment terms and pricing of the fees for each type of transaction are fixed and outlined in published fee schedules. Our obligation is satisfied at the time of the transaction processing. 

Note 21:    Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 

Pension and Postretirement Plans 
  We sponsor a frozen noncontributory qualified defined benefit retirement plan, the Wells Fargo   Company Cash Balance Plan (Cash Balance Plan), which covers eligible employees of Wells Fargo. The Cash Balance Plan was frozen on July 1, 2009, and   no   new benefits accrue after that date. 
  Prior to July 1, 2009, eligible employees  Cash Balance Plan accounts were allocated a compensation credit based on a percentage of their certified compensation; the freeze discontinued the allocation of compensation credits after June 30, 2009. Investment credits continue to be allocated to participants  accounts based on their accumulated balances. 
  We did not make a contribution to our Cash Balance Plan in   2017  . We do not expect that we will be required to make a contribution to the Cash Balance Plan in   2018  ; however, this is dependent on the finalization of the actuarial valuation in   2018  . Our decision of whether to make a contribution in   2018   will be based on various factors including the actual investment performance of plan assets during   2018  . Given these uncertainties, we cannot estimate at this time the amount, if any, that we will contribute in   2018   to the Cash Balance Plan. For the nonqualified pension plans and postretirement benefit plans, there is no minimum required contribution beyond the amount needed to fund benefit payments; we may contribute more to our postretirement benefit plans dependent on various factors. 
  We sponsored the Pension and Life Assurance Plan of Wachovia Bank to employees in the United Kingdom (UK  

Pension Plan). In September 2017, an annuity contract was entered into that effected a full settlement of this UK Pension Plan, resulting in a plan settlement of $  74 million   and a settlement loss of $  7 million  . 
  Our nonqualified defined benefit plans are unfunded and provide supplemental defined benefit pension benefits to certain eligible employees. The benefits under these plans were frozen in prior years. 
  We provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain retired employees and we reserve the right to amend, modify or terminate any of the benefits at any time. In October 2016, the Wells Fargo   Company Retiree Plan (Retiree Plan), a postretirement plan, was amended and restated effective January 1, 2017. Significant changes included eliminating certain self-insured options and replacing these with a fully-insured Group Medicare Advantage Plan, and adjusting the retirement medical allowance and subsidy amounts to reflect the reduced Group Medicare Advantage Plan premiums. These changes resulted in a net prior service credit of   $177 million   that reduced the Retiree Plan obligation in 2016. 
  The information set forth in the following tables is based on current actuarial reports using the measurement date of December 31 for our pension and postretirement benefit plans.  
  Table 21.1   presents the changes in the benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets, the funded status, and the amounts recognized on the balance sheet. 

Table 21.1:      Changes in Benefit Obligation and Fair Value of Plan Assets    

Note 21:    Employee Benefits and Other Expenses   (continued) 

Table 21.2   provides information for pension plans with benefit obligations in excess of plan assets. 
    
  Table 21.2:      Pension Plans with Benefit Obligations in Excess of Plan Assets    

Table 21.3   presents the components of net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive income (OCI). 

Table 21.3:      Net Periodic Benefit Cost and Other Comprehensive Income 

Table 21.4   provides the amounts recognized in cumulative OCI (pre tax). 

Table 21.4:      Benefits Recognized in Cumulative OCI    

The net actuarial loss for the defined benefit pension plans and other post retirement plans that will be amortized from cumulative OCI into net periodic benefit cost in   2018   is   $127 million  . The net prior service credit for other post retirement plans that will be amortized from cumulative OCI into net periodic benefit cost in   2018   is   $10 million  .  

Plan Assumptions 
  For additional information on our pension accounting assumptions, see Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies).   Table 21.5   presents the weighted-average discount rates used to estimate the projected benefit obligation for pension benefits. 

Table 21.5:      Discount Rates Used to Estimate Projected Benefit Obligation    

Table 21.6   presents the weighted-average assumptions used to determine the net periodic benefit cost. 

Table 21.6:      Weighted-Average Assumptions Used to Determine Net Periodic Benefit Cost    

(1) 
    The discount rate includes the impact of interim remeasurements as applicable. 
       
    To account for postretirement health care plans we used health care cost trend rates to recognize the effect of expected changes in future health care costs due to medical inflation, utilization changes, new technology, regulatory requirements and Medicare cost shifting. In determining the end of year benefit obligation, we assumed an average annual increase of approximately   9.00%   for health care costs in   2018  . This rate is assumed to trend down   0.40%  -  0.70%   per year until the trend rate reaches an ultimate rate of   4.50%   in   2026  . The   2017   periodic benefit cost was determined using an initial annual trend rate of   8.90%  . This rate was assumed to decrease   0.50%  -  0.60%   per year until the trend rate reached an ultimate rate of   4.50%   in   2026  . Increasing the assumed health care trend by one percentage point in each year would increase the benefit obligation as of   December 31, 2017  , by   $13 million   and the total of the interest cost and service cost components of the net periodic benefit cost for   2017   by   $1 million  . Decreasing the assumed health care trend by one percentage point in each year would decrease the benefit obligation as of   December 31, 2017  , by   $11 million   and the total of the interest cost and service cost components of the net periodic benefit cost for   2017   by   $1 million  .  
    
  Investment Strategy and Asset Allocation 
  We seek to achieve the expected long-term rate of return with a prudent level of risk given the benefit obligations of the pension plans and their funded status. Our overall investment strategy is designed to provide our Cash Balance Plan with long-term growth opportunities while ensuring that risk is mitigated through diversification across numerous asset classes and various investment strategies. We target the asset allocation for our Cash Balance Plan at a target mix range of   25%  -  45%   equities,   45%  -  65%   fixed income, and approximately   10%   in real estate, venture capital, private equity and other investments. The Employee Benefit Review Committee (EBRC), which includes several members of senior management, formally reviews the  

investment risk and performance of our Cash Balance Plan on a quarterly basis. Annual Plan liability analysis and periodic asset/liability evaluations are also conducted. 
  Other benefit plan assets include (1) assets held in a 401(h) trust, which are invested with a target mix of   40%  -  60%   for both equities and fixed income, and (2) assets held in the Retiree Medical Plan Voluntary Employees  Beneficiary Association (VEBA) trust, which are invested with a general target asset mix of   20%  -  40%   equities and   60%  -  80%   fixed income. Members of the EBRC formally review the investment risk and performance of these assets on a quarterly basis. 
    
  Projected Benefit Payments 
  Future benefits that we expect to pay under the pension and other benefit plans are presented in   Table 21.7  .  
    
  Table 21.7:      Projected Benefit Payments    

Note 21:    Employee Benefits and Other Expenses   (continued) 

Fair Value of Plan Assets 
  Table 21.8   presents the balances of pension plan assets and other benefit plan assets measured at fair value. In accordance with accounting guidance that we adopted effective January 1, 2016, we do not classify an investment in the fair value hierarchy (Level 1, 2 or 3), if we use the non-published net asset value (NAV) per share (or its equivalent) that has been communicated  

to us as an investor as a practical expedient to measure fair value. We generally use NAV per share as the fair value measurement for certain investments, including some hedge funds and real estate holdings. Investments with published NAVs continue to be classified in the fair value hierarchy. See Note 17 (Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities) for fair value hierarchy level definitions. 

Table 21.8:      Pension and Other Benefit Plan Assets    

(1) 
    This category includes a diversified mix of assets which are being managed in accordance with a duration target of approximately   10   years and an emphasis on corporate credit bonds combined with investments in U.S. Treasury securities and other U.S. agency and non-agency bonds.  
              (2) 
    This category includes assets that are intermediate duration, investment grade bonds held in investment strategies benchmarked to the Bloomberg Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Bond Index, including U.S. Treasury securities, agency and non-agency asset-backed bonds and corporate bonds. 
              (3) 
    This category covers a broad range of investment styles, including active, enhanced index and passive approaches, as well as style characteristics of value, core and growth emphasized strategies. Assets in this category are currently diversified across   eight   unique investment strategies with no single investment manager strategy representing more than   2.5%   of total plan assets. 
              (4) 
    This category consists of   four   unique investment strategies providing exposure to broadly diversified, global equity investments, which generally have an allocation of   40  -  60%   in U.S. domiciled equities and an equivalent allocation range in non-U.S. equities, with no single strategy representing more than   1.5%   of total Plan assets. 
              (5) 
    This category includes assets diversified across   five   unique investment strategies providing exposure to companies in developed market, non-U.S. countries with no single strategy representing more than   2.5%   of total plan assets. 
              (6) 
    Consists of certain investments that are measured at fair value using NAV per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient and are excluded from the fair value hierarchy. 

Table 21.9   presents the changes in Level 3 pension plan and other benefit plan assets measured at fair value. 

Table 21.9:      Fair Value Level 3 Pension and Other Benefit Plan Assets    

(1) 
    All unrealized gains (losses) relate to instruments held at period end. 
       
    VALUATION METHODOLOGIES      Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for assets measured at fair value. 
  Cash and Cash Equivalents     includes investments in collective investment funds valued at fair value based upon the fund s NAV per share held at year-end. The NAV per share is quoted on a private market that is not active; however, the NAV per share is based on underlying investments traded on an active market. This group of assets also includes investments in registered investment companies valued at the NAV per share held at year-end and in interest-bearing bank accounts. 
  Long Duration, Intermediate (Core), High-Yield, and International Fixed Income     includes investments traded on the secondary markets; prices are measured by using quoted market prices for similar securities, pricing models, and discounted cash flow analyses using significant inputs observable in the market where available, or a combination of multiple valuation techniques. This group of assets also includes highly liquid government securities such as U.S. Treasuries, limited partnerships valued at the NAV, registered investment companies and collective investment funds described above. 
  Domestic, Global, International and Emerging Market Stocks     investments in exchange-traded equity securities are valued at quoted market values. This group of assets also includes investments in registered investment companies and collective investment funds described above. 

Real Estate     includes investments in real estate, which are valued at fair value based on an income capitalization valuation approach. Market values are estimates, and the actual market price of the real estate can only be determined by negotiation between independent third parties in sales transactions. This group of assets also includes investments in exchange-traded equity securities and collective investment funds described above. 
  Hedge Funds / Absolute Return     includes investments in registered investment companies, limited partnerships and collective investment funds, as described above. 
  Other     insurance contracts that are stated at cash surrender value. This group of assets also includes investments in collective investment funds described above. 
  The methods described above may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values. While we believe our valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different fair value measurement at the reporting date. 

Note 21:    Employee Benefits and Other Expenses   (continued) 

Defined Contribution Retirement Plans 
  We sponsor a defined contribution retirement plan, the Wells Fargo   Company 401(k) Plan (401(k) Plan). Under the 401(k) Plan, after   one   month of service, eligible employees may contribute up to   50%   of their certified compensation, subject to statutory limits. Eligible employees who complete   one year   of service are eligible for quarterly company matching contributions, which are generally dollar for dollar up to   6%   of an employee s eligible certified compensation. Matching contributions are   100%   vested. The 401(k) Plan includes an employer discretionary profit sharing contribution feature to allow us to make a contribution to eligible employees  401(k) Plan accounts for a plan year. Eligible employees who complete   one year   of service are eligible for profit sharing contributions. Profit sharing contributions are vested after   three years   of service. Total defined contribution retirement plan expenses were   $1.2 billion   in both   2017   and   2016   and   $1.1 billion   in   2015  .  

Other Expenses 
  Table 21.10   presents expenses exceeding 1% of total interest income and noninterest income in any of the years presented that are not otherwise shown separately in the financial statements or Notes to Financial Statements. 
    
  Table 21.10:      Other Expenses    

(1) 
    Noninterest income from card fees is net of cardholder rewards and rebates expense.  

On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts   Jobs Act (Tax Act) was enacted resulting in significant changes to both domestic tax law and the U.S taxation of foreign subsidiaries. While many provisions of the law became effective January 1, 2018, we were required to recognize various tax impacts of the Tax Act as of December 31, 2017, in accordance with ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 118. Accordingly, our income tax expense for 2017 reflected   $3.7 billion   of net estimated tax benefits related to the Tax Act,   primarily as a result of re-measuring our deferred taxes for the federal tax rate reduction from 35% to 21%  . We used reasonable estimates and recorded provisional amounts as of December 31, 2017, when re-measuring our deferred taxes. Our initial accounting related to the re-measurement is incomplete, since the temporary difference calculations need to be finalized as we complete our U.S. tax filing during 2018. We will collect and analyze the final temporary difference data and monitor any interpretations that may emerge for various provisions of the Tax Act throughout 2018 and adjust our original estimate accordingly.    
  Table 22.1   presents the components of income tax expense. 
    
  Table 22.1:      Income Tax Expense    

The tax effects of our temporary differences that gave rise to significant portions of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented in   Table 22.2  . 
    
  Table 22.2:      Net Deferred Tax Liability    

(1) 
    The net deferred tax liability is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities.  

Note 22:    Income Taxes   (continued) 

Deferred taxes related to net unrealized gains (losses) on investment securities, net unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives, foreign currency translation, and employee benefit plan adjustments are recorded in cumulative OCI (see Note 24 (Other Comprehensive Income)). These associated adjustments decreased OCI by   $434 million   in   2017  . OCI was not adjusted to reflect a   $400 million   impact of the Tax Act recognized in 2017 tax expense for the re-measurement of deferred tax assets related to the items recorded in OCI. In 2018, we expect to adopt ASU 2018-02   Income Statement-Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220):   Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income,   and reclassify the   $400 million   from OCI to retained earnings. 
  We have determined that a valuation reserve is required for   2017   in the amount of   $397 million   predominantly attributable to deferred tax assets in various state and foreign jurisdictions where we believe it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will not be realized. In these jurisdictions, carry back limitations, lack of sources of taxable income, and tax planning strategy limitations contributed to our conclusion that the deferred tax assets would not be realizable. We have concluded that it is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax assets will be realized based on our history of earnings, sources of taxable income in carry back periods, and our ability to implement tax planning strategies. 
  At   December 31, 2017  , we had net operating loss carry forwards with related deferred tax assets of   $341 million  . If these  

carry forwards are not utilized, they will expire in varying amounts through   12/31/2037  . 
  As a result of the deemed mandatory repatriation provision in the Tax Act, we included an estimated   $4.0 billion   of undistributed foreign earnings in taxable income and recognized an associated   $173 million   of net income tax expense. We were able to reasonably estimate our foreign earnings and profits calculations as of December 31, 2017, and will finalize these calculations in 2018 as we complete our tax filings and our analysis of the new provisions of the Tax Act. We do not intend to distribute these foreign earnings in a taxable manner, and therefore intend to limit distributions to foreign earnings previously taxed in the U.S., that would qualify for the 100% dividends received deduction, and that would not result in any significant state or foreign taxes. All other undistributed foreign earnings will continue to be permanently reinvested outside the U.S. and the related tax liability on these earnings is insignificant.  
  Table 22.3   reconciles the statutory federal income tax expense and rate to the effective income tax expense and rate. Our effective tax rate is calculated by dividing income tax expense by income before income tax expense less the net income from noncontrolling interests. 

Table 22.3:      Effective Income Tax Expense and Rate    

The effective income tax rate for   2017   reflected the estimated impact of the Tax Act, including a benefit of   $3.9 billion   resulting from the re-measurement of the Company's estimated net deferred tax liability as of December 31, 2017, partially offset by   $173 million   of tax expense relating to the estimated tax impact of the deemed repatriation of the Company's previously undistributed foreign earnings. The effective tax rate was also adversely impacted by   $1.3 billion   tax expense relating to discrete non tax-deductible items (predominantly litigation accruals). The effective income tax rate for   2016   included net reductions in reserves for uncertain tax positions resulting from settlements with tax authorities, partially offset by a net increase in tax benefits related to tax credit investments. The effective income tax rate for   2015   included net reductions in reserves for uncertain tax positions primarily due to audit resolutions of prior period matters with U.S. federal and state taxing authorities.  

Table 22.4   presents the change in unrecognized tax benefits. 
    
  Table 22.4:      Change in Unrecognized Tax Benefits    

Of the   $5.2 billion   of unrecognized tax benefits at   December 31, 2017  , approximately   $3.5 billion   would, if recognized, affect the effective tax rate. The remaining   $1.7 billion   of unrecognized tax benefits relates to income tax positions on temporary differences. 
  We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. As of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , we have accrued approximately   $726 million   and   $589 million   for the payment of interest and penalties, respectively. In   2017  , we recognized in income tax expense a net tax expense related to interest and penalties of   $96 million  . In   2016  , we recognized in income tax expense a net tax expense related to interest and penalties of   $136 million  . 

We are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income tax in numerous state and foreign jurisdictions. We are routinely examined by tax authorities in these various jurisdictions. The IRS is currently examining the 2011 through 2014 consolidated federal income tax returns of Wells Fargo   Company and its subsidiaries. In addition, we are currently subject to examination by various state, local and foreign taxing authorities. With few exceptions, Wells Fargo and its subsidiaries are not subject to federal, state, local and foreign income tax examinations for taxable years prior to 2007. 
  We are litigating or appealing various issues related to prior IRS examinations for the periods 2003 through 2010. For the 2003 through 2006 periods, we have paid the IRS the contested income tax and interest associated with these issues and refund claims have been filed for the respective years. It is possible that one or more of these examinations, appeals or litigation may be resolved within the next twelve months resulting in a decrease of up to   $1.0 billion   to our gross unrecognized tax benefits.  

Note 23:    Earnings Per Common Share 

Table 23.1   shows earnings per common share and diluted earnings per common share and reconciles the numerator and denominator of both earnings per common share calculations. See Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) for  

discussion of private share repurchases and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Note 19 (Common Stock and Stock Plans) for information about stock and options activity and terms and conditions of warrants. 

Table 23.1:      Earnings Per Common Share Calculations    

Table 23.2   presents the outstanding options to purchase shares of common stock that were anti-dilutive (the exercise price was higher than the weighted-average market price), and therefore not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share. 
    
  Table 23.2:      Outstanding Anti-Dilutive Options    

Note 24:    Other Comprehensive Income  

Table 24.1   provides the components of other comprehensive income (OCI), reclassifications to net income by income statement line item, and the related tax effects. 

Table 24.1:      Summary of Other Comprehensive Income    

(1) 
    Represents net unrealized gains and losses amortized over the remaining lives of securities that were transferred from the available-for-sale portfolio to the held-to-maturity portfolio. 
              (2) 
    These items are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost, which is recorded in employee benefits expense (see Note 21 (Employee Benefits and Other Expenses) for additional details). 
              (3) 
    Represents changes in fair value of cross-currency swaps attributable to changes in cross-currency basis spreads, which are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and recorded in other comprehensive income. 

Note 24:    Other Comprehensive Income   (continued) 

Table 24.2   provides the cumulative OCI balance activity on an after-tax basis. 

Table 24.2:      Cumulative OCI Balances    

(1) 
    Transition adjustment relates to the adoption of ASU 2017-12,   Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities  . See Note 1 for more information. 

Note 25:    Operating Segments 

We have   three   reportable operating segments: Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth and Investment Management (WIM). We define our operating segments by product type and customer segment and their results are based on our management accounting process, for which there is no comprehensive, authoritative guidance equivalent to GAAP for financial accounting. The management accounting process measures the performance of the operating segments based on our management structure and is not necessarily comparable with similar information for other financial services companies. If the management structure and/or the allocation process changes, allocations, transfers and assignments may change.  
    
  Community Banking   offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services to consumers and small businesses with annual sales generally up to   $5 million   in which the owner generally is the financial decision maker. These financial products and services include checking and savings accounts, credit and debit cards, and automobile, student, mortgage, home equity and small business lending, as well as referrals to Wholesale Banking and WIM business partners.  
  Community Banking serves customers through a complete range of channels, including traditional and in-supermarket and other small format branches, ATMs, digital (online, mobile, and social), and contact centers (phone, email and correspondence). 
  The Community Banking segment also includes the results of our Corporate Treasury activities net of allocations (including funds transfer pricing, capital, liquidity and certain corporate expenses) in support of other segments and results of investments in our affiliated venture capital partnerships.  
    
  Wholesale Banking   provides financial solutions to businesses across the United States with annual sales generally in excess of   $5 million   and to financial institutions globally. Wholesale Banking provides a complete line of business banking, commercial, corporate, capital markets, cash management and real estate banking products and services. These include traditional commercial loans and lines of credit, letters of credit, asset-based lending, equipment leasing, international trade facilities, trade financing, collection services, foreign exchange services, treasury management, merchant payment processing, institutional fixed-income sales, interest rate, commodity and equity risk management, online/electronic products such as the   Commercial Electronic Office        (  CEO       ) portal, corporate trust fiduciary and agency services, and investment banking services. Wholesale Banking also supports the CRE market with products and services such as construction loans for commercial and residential development, land acquisition and development loans, secured and unsecured lines of credit, interim financing arrangements for completed structures, rehabilitation loans, affordable housing loans and letters of credit, permanent loans for securitization, CRE loan servicing and real estate and mortgage brokerage services. 

Wealth and Investment Management   provides a full range of personalized wealth management, investment and retirement products and services to clients across U.S. based businesses including Wells Fargo Advisors, The Private Bank, Abbot Downing, Wells Fargo Institutional Retirement and Trust, and Wells Fargo Asset Management. We deliver financial planning, private banking, credit, investment management and fiduciary services to high-net worth and ultra-high-net worth individuals and families. We also serve clients' brokerage needs, supply retirement and trust services to institutional clients and provide investment management capabilities delivered to global institutional clients through separate accounts and the Wells Fargo Funds. 
    
  Other   includes the elimination of certain items that are included in more than one business segment, substantially all of which represents products and services for Wealth and Investment Management customers served through Community Banking distribution channels. 

Note 25:    Operating Segments   (continued) 

Table 25.1   presents our results by operating segment. 
  Table 25.1:      Operating Segments    

(1) 
    Includes the elimination of certain items that are included in more than one business segment, most of which represents products and services for Wealth and Investment Management customers served through Community Banking distribution channels.  
              (2) 
    Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on assets and the cost of liabilities to fund those assets. Interest earned includes actual interest earned on segment assets and, if the segment has excess liabilities, interest credits for providing funding to other segments. The cost of liabilities includes interest expense on segment liabilities and, if the segment does not have enough liabilities to fund its assets, a funding charge based on the cost of excess liabilities from another segment. 
              (3) 
    Represents segment net income (loss) for Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth and Investment Management segments and Wells Fargo net income for the consolidated company. 

Note 26:    Parent-Only Financial Statements 

The following tables present Parent-only condensed financial statements. 

Table 26.1:      Parent-Only Statement of Income    

Note 26:    Parent-Only Financial Statements   (continued) 

Table 26.2:      Parent-Only Statement of Comprehensive Income    

Table 26.3:      Parent-Only Balance Sheet    

Table 26.4:      Parent-Only Statement of Cash Flows    

(1) 
    Prior periods have been revised to conform to the current period presentation. 

Note 27:    Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements  

The Company and each of its subsidiary banks are subject to regulatory capital adequacy requirements promulgated by federal bank regulatory agencies. The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for the consolidated financial holding company, and the OCC has similar requirements for the Company s national banks, including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (the Bank). 
  Table 27.1   presents regulatory capital information for Wells Fargo   Company and the Bank using Basel III, which increased minimum required capital ratios, and introduced a minimum Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio. We must report the lower of our CET1, tier 1 and total capital ratios calculated under the Standardized Approach and under the Advanced Approach in the assessment of our capital adequacy. The information presented reflects risk-weighted assets (RWAs) under the Standardized and Advanced Approaches with Transition Requirements. The Standardized Approach applies assigned risk weights to broad risk categories, while the calculation of RWAs under the Advanced Approach differs by requiring applicable  

banks to utilize a risk-sensitive methodology, which relies upon the use of internal credit models, and includes an operational risk component. The Basel III revised definition of capital, and changes are being phased-in effective January 1, 2014, through the end of 2021. 
  The Bank is an approved seller/servicer of mortgage loans and is required to maintain minimum levels of shareholders  equity, as specified by various agencies, including the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, GNMA, FHLMC and FNMA. At   December 31, 2017  , the Bank met these requirements. Other subsidiaries, including the Company s insurance and broker-dealer subsidiaries, are also subject to various minimum capital levels, as defined by applicable industry regulations. The minimum capital levels for these subsidiaries, and related restrictions, are not significant to our consolidated operations. 

Table 27.1:      Regulatory Capital Information      

  *Denotes the lowest capital ratio as determined under the Advanced and Standardized Approaches. 
           (1) 
    The leverage ratio consists of Tier 1 capital divided by quarterly average total assets, excluding goodwill and certain other items. 
       Table 27.2   presents the minimum required regulatory capital ratios under Transition Requirements to which the Company and the Bank were subject as of   December 31, 2017  , and   December 31, 2016  . 

Table 27.2:      Minimum Required Regulatory Capital Ratios   Transition Requirements (1)      

           (1) 
    At   December 31, 2017  , under transition requirements, the CET1, tier 1 and total capital minimum ratio requirements for Wells Fargo   Company include a capital conservation buffer of   1.250%   and a global systemically important bank (G-SIB) surcharge of   1.000%  . Only the   1.250%   capital conservation buffer applies to the Bank at   December 31, 2017  .  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

The Stockholders and Board of Directors 
  Wells Fargo   Company: 
    
  Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries (the Company) as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended   December 31, 2017  , and the related notes (collectively, the consolidated financial statements). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended   December 31, 2017  , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
    
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2017  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated   March 1, 2018  , expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 
    
  Basis for Opinion 
  These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
    
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 

/s/ KPMG LLP                          
    
  We have served as the Company s auditor since 1931. 
    
  San Francisco, California 
  March 1, 2018 

(1) 
    Financial information for prior quarters in 2017 has been revised to reflect the impact of the adoption in fourth quarter 2017 of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2017-12       Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815):   Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities  . The effect of adoption on previously reported quarter-to-date net income includes $(54) million, $46 million, and $177 million for periods ended September 30, June 30, and March 31, 2017, respectively. See Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) for more information on the adoption of ASU 2017-12. 
              (2) 
    Based on daily prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Reporting System. 

Average Balances, Yields and Rates Paid (Taxable-Equivalent basis) - Quarterly (1)(2) - (Unaudited)   
   
            (2) 
    Yield/rates and amounts include the effects of hedge and risk management activities associated with the respective asset and liability categories. 
              (3) 
    Yields and rates are based on interest income/expense amounts for the period, annualized based on the accrual basis for the respective accounts. The average balance amounts represent amortized cost for the periods presented. 
              (4) 
    Nonaccrual loans and related income are included in their respective loan categories. 
              (5) 
    Includes taxable-equivalent adjustments of   $342 million   and   $331 million   for the quarters ended   December 31,     2017   and   2016  , respectively, predominantly related to tax-exempt income on certain loans and securities. The federal statutory tax rate was 35% for the periods presented. 

Glossary of Acronyms 

ABS 
    Asset-backed security 
    G-SIB 
    Globally systemic important bank 
      ACL 
    Allowance for credit losses 
    HAMP 
    Home Affordability Modification Program 
      ALCO 
    Asset/Liability Management Committee 
    HUD 
    U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 
      ARM 
    Adjustable-rate mortgage 
    LCR 
    Liquidity coverage ratio 
      ASC 
    Accounting Standards Codification 
    LHFS 
    Loans held for sale 
      ASU 
    Accounting Standards Update 
    LIBOR 
    London Interbank Offered Rate 
      AUA 
    Assets under administration 
    LIHTC 
    Low income housing tax credit 
      AUM 
    Assets under management 
    LOCOM 
    Lower of cost or market value 
      AVM 
    Automated valuation model 
    LTV 
    Loan-to-value 
      BCBS 
    Basel Committee on Bank Supervision 
    MBS 
    Mortgage-backed security 
      BHC 
    Bank holding company 
    MHA 
    Making Home Affordable programs 
      CCAR 
    Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review 
    MHFS 
    Mortgages held for sale 
      CD 
    Certificate of deposit 
    MSR 
    Mortgage servicing right 
      CDO 
    Collateralized debt obligation 
    MTN 
    Medium-term note 
      CDS 
    Credit default swaps 
    NAV 
    Net asset value 
      CECL 
    Current expected credit loss 
    NPA 
    Nonperforming asset 
      CET1 
    Common Equity Tier 1 
    OCC 
    Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
      CFPB 
    Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
    OCI 
    Other comprehensive income 
      CLO 
    Collateralized loan obligation 
    OTC 
    Over-the-counter 
      CLTV 
    Combined loan-to-value 
    OTTI 
    Other-than-temporary impairment 
      CMBS 
    Commercial mortgage-backed securities 
    PCI Loans 
    Purchased credit-impaired loans 
      CPI 
    Collateral protection insurance 
    PTPP 
    Pre-tax pre-provision profit 
      CPP 
    Capital Purchase Program 
    RBC 
    Risk-based capital 
      CRE 
    Commercial real estate 
    RMBS 
    Residential mortgage-backed securities 
      DPD 
    Days past due 
    ROA 
    Wells Fargo net income to average total assets 
      ESOP 
    Employee Stock Ownership Plan 
    ROE 
    Wells Fargo net income applicable to common stock 
      FAS 
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 
      
    to average Wells Fargo common stockholders      equity 
      FASB 
    Financial Accounting Standards Board 
    ROTCE 
    Return on average tangible common equity 
      FDIC 
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
    RWAs 
    Risk-weighted assets 
      FFELP 
    Federal Family Education Loan Program 
    SEC 
    Securities and Exchange Commission 
      FHA 
    Federal Housing Administration 
    S P 
    Standard   Poor s Ratings Services 
      FHLB 
    Federal Home Loan Bank 
    SLR 
    Supplementary leverage ratio 
      FHLMC 
    Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 
    SPE 
    Special purpose entity 
      FICO 
    Fair Isaac Corporation (credit rating) 
    TARP 
    Troubled Asset Relief Program 
      FNMA 
    Federal National Mortgage Association 
    TDR 
    Troubled debt restructuring 
      FRB 
    Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
    TLAC 
    Total Loss Absorbing Capacity 
      GAAP 
    Generally accepted accounting principles 
    VA 
    Department of Veterans Affairs 
      GNMA 
    Government National Mortgage Association 
    VaR 
    Value-at-Risk 
      GSE 
    Government-sponsored entity 
    VIE 
    Variable interest entity 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 7
 wfc-12312017xex21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21 
    
                   SUBSIDIARIES OF THE PARENT 

The table below is a list of direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Parent as of December 31, 2017, and the state or jurisdiction in which the subsidiaries are organized. Pursuant to Item 601(b)(21)(ii) of Regulation S-K, certain subsidiaries of the Parent have been omitted from this list because, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, such subsidiaries would not constitute a  significant subsidiary  as that term is defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X. 

Subsidiary 
      
    Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization 
      Bergamasco Funding, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Danube Holdings I C.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Danube I Limited Partner, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Eastdil Secured Broker Services, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      Eastdil Secured, L.L.C. 
      
    New York 
      EVEREN Capital Corporation 
      
    Delaware 
      FNL Insurance Company, Ltd 
      
    Hawaii 
      Norwest Venture Partners XI, LP 
      
    Delaware 
      Norwest Venture Partners XII, LP 
      
    Delaware 
      NVP Associates, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      OmniPlus Capital Corporation 
      
    Delaware 
      Peony Asset Management, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      PRN Holdings, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Pyrenees Funding, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Reliable Financial Services, Inc. 
      
    Puerto Rico 
      Salvo Finance LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Silver Asset Management, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      Sparta GP Holding REO Corp 
      
    Delaware 
      Union Hamilton Reinsurance, Ltd. 
      
    Bermuda 
      Wells Capital Management Incorporated 
      
    California 
      Wells Fargo Affordable Housing Community Development Corporation 
      
    North Carolina 
      Wells Fargo Bank International Unlimited Company 
      
    Ireland 
      Wells Fargo Bank South Central, National Association 
      
    United States 
      Wells Fargo Bank, National Association 
      
    United States 
      Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Wells Fargo Central Pacific Holdings, Inc. 
      
    California 
      Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Wells Fargo Commercial Distribution Finance, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Wells Fargo Community Development Corporation 
      
    Nevada 
      Wells Fargo Community Investment Holdings, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Wells Fargo Dealer Floorplan Master Note Trust 
      
    Delaware 
      Wells Fargo Equipment Finance, Inc. 
      
    Minnesota 
      Wells Fargo Financial Leasing, Inc. 
      
    Iowa 
      Wells Fargo Financial National Bank 
      
    United States 
      Wells Fargo Funding, Inc. 
      
    Minnesota 
      Wells Fargo Funds Management, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Wells Fargo Insurance Re, Inc. 
      
    Vermont 
      Wells Fargo International B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 

Wells Fargo Municipal Capital Strategies, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Wells Fargo Real Estate Investment Corporation 
      
    Delaware 
      Wells Fargo Securities, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Wells Fargo USA Holdings, Inc. 
      
    New Jersey 
      Wells Fargo Vendor Financial Services, LLC 
      
    California 
      WFC Holdings, LLC 
      
    Delaware 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 8
 wfc-12312017xex23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23 
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  The Board of Directors   Wells Fargo   Company:  
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements noted below on Forms S 3, S-4, and S 8 of Wells Fargo   Company of our reports dated   March 1, 2018  , with respect to the consolidated balance sheet of Wells Fargo   Company and Subsidiaries as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended   December 31, 2017  , and the related notes (collectively, the  consolidated financial statements ), and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2017  , which reports appear in the   December 31, 2017   Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wells Fargo   Company. 

/s/ KPMG LLP                              
    
  San Francisco, California 
  March 1, 2018 

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 9
 wfc-12312017xex24.htm
 EXHIBIT 24

Exhibit 

Exhibit 24 
    
  WELLS FARGO   COMPANY 
    
  Power of Attorney of Director 
    
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned director of WELLS FARGO   COMPANY, a Delaware corporation, does hereby make, constitute, and appoint JAMES H. QUIGLEY, a director and Chairman of the Audit and Examination Committee of the Board of Directors, and JOHN D. BAKER II, THEODORE F. CRAVER, JR., FEDERICO F. PE A, and RONALD L. SARGENT, directors and members of the Audit and Examination Committee of the Board of Directors, and each or any of them, the undersigned s true and lawful attorneys-in-fact, with power of substitution, for the undersigned and in the undersigned s name, place, and stead, to sign and affix the undersigned s name as such director of said Company to an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2017  , and all amendments thereto, to be filed by said Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C. under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the rules and regulations of said Commission, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and other supporting documents, with said Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact, and each or either of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts necessary or incidental to the performance and execution of the powers herein expressly granted. 
    
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this power of attorney this 27th day of February, 2018. 
     
                 /s/ JOHN D. BAKER II 
    /s/ MARIA R. MORRIS 
      /s/ JOHN S. CHEN 
    /s/ KAREN B. PEETZ 
      /s/ CELESTE A. CLARK 
    /s/ FEDERICO F. PE A 
      /s/ THEODORE F. CRAVER, JR. 
    /s/ JUAN A. PUJADAS 
      /s/ LLOYD H. DEAN 
    /s/ JAMES H. QUIGLEY 
      /s/ ELIZABETH A. DUKE 
    /s/ RONALD L. SARGENT 
      /s/ ENRIQUE HERNANDEZ, JR. 
    /s/ TIMOTHY J. SLOAN 
      /s/ DONALD M. JAMES 
    /s/ SUZANNE M. VAUTRINOT 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.A>
 10
 wfc-12312017xex31a.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.A

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31(a) 
    
  CERTIFICATION 
    
  I, Timothy J. Sloan, certify that: 
    
  1.           I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended   December 31, 2017  , of Wells Fargo   Company; 
  2.           Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
  3.           Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
  4.           The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
           (a)   
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b)   
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c)   
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d)       
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
     5.           The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
           (a)   
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b)   
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
       
  Date:   March 1, 2018    
  /s/ TIMOTHY J. SLOAN         
  Timothy J. Sloan 
  Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 11
 wfc-12312017xex31b.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.B

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31(b) 
    
  CERTIFICATION 
    
  I, John R. Shrewsberry, certify that: 
    
  1.           I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended   December 31, 2017  , of Wells Fargo   Company; 
  2.           Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
  3.           Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
  4.           The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
           (a)   
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b)   
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   
              (c)   
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d)       
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
     5.           The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
           (a)     
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b)     
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
       
  Date:   March 1, 2018    
  /s/ JOHN R. SHREWSBERRY                
  John R. Shrewsberry 
  Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32.A>
 12
 wfc-12312017xex32a.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.A

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32(a) 

Certifications Pursuant to 
  18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 
  As Adopted Pursuant to 
  Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       
     
  In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wells Fargo   Company (the  Company ) for the period ended   December 31, 2017  , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Timothy J. Sloan, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
    
           (1)         
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   
       
           (2)         
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ TIMOTHY J. SLOAN         
  Timothy J. Sloan 
  Chief Executive Officer 
  Wells Fargo   Company 
  March 1, 2018    

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 13
 wfc-12312017xex32b.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.B

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32(b) 

Certifications Pursuant to 
  18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 
  As Adopted Pursuant to 
  Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
     
  In connection with the  Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wells Fargo   Company (the  Company ) for the period ended   December 31, 2017  , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, John R. Shrewsberry, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
    
           (1)         
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and   
       
           (2)         
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ JOHN R. SHREWSBERRY                  
  John R. Shrewsberry 
  Chief Financial Officer 
  Wells Fargo   Company 
  March 1, 2018    

</EX-32.B>

<EX-101.INS>
 16
 wfc-20171231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 17
 wfc-20171231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 18
 wfc-20171231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 19
 wfc-20171231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 20
 wfc-20171231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 21
 wfc-20171231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

