<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080229_10-K_edgar_data_59478_0000950137-08-003028_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1315061</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>297492</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>131996</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>651678</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>49</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950137-08-003028.hdr.sgml : 20080229
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080229095407
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950137-08-003028
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080229
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080229

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LILLY ELI & CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000059478
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				350470950
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			IN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06351
		FILM NUMBER:		08653112

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		LILLY CORPORATE CTR
		STREET 2:		DROP CODE 1112
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46285
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3172762000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		LILLY CORPORATE CENTER
		STREET 2:		DROP CODE 1112
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46285

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 N/dspG9c0lk50Vl1E05oPykL03+B070QF0qZsJcLvXkQ121EY2hWjF5ssz5ZK84E
 ST4r9Ggwy4Pf/NGPzDeIUQ==

 0000950137-08-003028.txt : 20080229

10-K
 1
 c24001e10vk.htm
 ANNUAL REPORT

e10vk 

United
    States 
    Securities and Exchange Commission 
    Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K   

Annual report pursuant to
    Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007

Commission file number
     001-06351 

Eli Lilly and Company  

An Indiana
    corporation          I.R.S.
    employer identification no. 35-0470950

Lilly
    Corporate Center, Indianapolis, Indiana 46285

(317) 276-2000 

Securities
    registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of Each Class  

Name of Each Exchange On Which
    Registered  

Common Stock (no par value)

New York Stock Exchange

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

New York Stock Exchange

6.57% Notes Due January 1, 2016

New York Stock Exchange

7- 1 / 8 % Notes
    Due June 1, 2025

New York Stock Exchange

6.77% Notes Due January 1, 2036

New York Stock Exchange

Securities
    registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
    None  

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act. Yes     No   

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act. Yes     No   

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
    requirements for the past
    90 days. Yes     No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of Registrant s knowledge, in the definitive proxy
    statement incorporated by reference in Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

Accelerated filer

Non-accelerated
    filer     
    (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting
    Company    

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company
    as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Act:
    Yes     No   

Aggregate market value of the common equity held by
    non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the
    common equity was last sold as of the last business day of the
    Registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
    (Common Stock): approximately $55,734,950,000

Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of
    February 15, 2008: 1,136,985,018

Portions of the Registrant s Proxy Statement to be filed on
    or about March 10, 2008 have been incorporated by reference
    into Part III of this report.

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

Part I

Item 1.    

Business

Eli Lilly and Company (the  Company  or
     Registrant , which may be referred to as
     we ,  us , or  our ) was
    incorporated in 1901 in Indiana to succeed to the drug
    manufacturing business founded in Indianapolis, Indiana, in 1876
    by Colonel Eli Lilly. We discover, develop, manufacture, and
    sell products in one significant business segment  
    pharmaceutical products. We also have an animal health business
    segment, whose operations are not material to our financial
    statements. We manufacture and distribute our products through
    owned or leased facilities in the United States, Puerto Rico,
    and 25 other countries. Our products are sold in approximately
    135 countries.

Most of the products we sell today were discovered or developed
    by our own scientists, and our success depends to a great extent
    on our ability to continue to discover and develop innovative
    new pharmaceutical products. We direct our research efforts
    primarily toward the search for products to prevent and treat
    human diseases. We also conduct research to find products to
    treat diseases in animals and to increase the efficiency of
    animal food production.

Products  

Our principal products are:

Neurosciences products  ,  our largest-selling
    product group, including:

Zyprexa   ,
     for the treatment of schizophrenia, acute mixed or manic
    episodes associated with bipolar I disorder and bipolar
    maintenance

Cymbalta    ,
    for the treatment of major depressive disorder, diabetic
    peripheral neuropathic pain, and generalized anxiety disorder

Strattera   ,
     for the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity
    disorder in children, adolescents and adults

Prozac   ,
     for the treatment of major depressive disorder,
    obsessive-compulsive disorder, bulimia nervosa and panic disorder

Symbyax   ,
     for the treatment of bipolar depression

Endocrinology products ,   including:

Humalog   
     ,  Humalog Mix
    75/25   ,
     and  Humalog Mix
    50/50   tm  ,
    for the treatment of diabetes

Humulin   ,
     for the treatment of diabetes

Actos   ,
     for the treatment of type 2 diabetes

Byetta    ,
    for the treatment of type 2 diabetes

Evista   ,
     for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis in
    post-menopausal women and for the reduction of the risk of
    invasive breast cancer in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis
    and postmenopausal women at high risk for invasive breast cancer.

Forteo   ,
     for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women
    and men at high risk for fracture

Humatrope   ,
     for the treatment of human growth hormone deficiency and
    idiopathic short stature.

-1-

Oncology products  ,  including:

Gemzar   ,
     for the treatment of pancreatic cancer; in combination with
    other agents, for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer,
    non-small cell lung cancer and advanced or recurrent ovarian
    cancer; and in the European Union for the treatment of bladder
    cancer

Alimta   ,
     for the second-line treatment of non-small cell lung cancer;
    and in combination with another agent, for the treatment of
    malignant pleural mesothelioma.

Cardiovascular products , including:

Cialis   ,
     for the treatment of erectile dysfunction

ReoPro   ,
     for use as an adjunct to percutaneous coronary intervention
    ( PCI ), including patients undergoing angioplasty,
    atherectomy or stent placement

Xigris   ,
     for the treatment of adults with severe sepsis at high risk
    of death.

Animal health products , including:

Rumensin   ,
     a cattle feed additive that improves feed efficiency and
    growth and also controls and prevents coccidiosis

Tylan   ,
     an antibiotic used to control certain diseases in cattle,
    swine, and poultry

Micotil    ,
     Pulmotil   ,
     and  Pulmotil
    AC   ,
     antibiotics used to treat respiratory disease in cattle,
    swine, and poultry, respectively

Paylean   
     and
     Optaflexx   ,
     leanness and performance enhancers for swine and cattle,
    respectively

Coban   ,
    Monteban   ,
     and
     Maxiban    ,
    anticoccidial agents for use in poultry

Apralan    ,
    an antibiotic used to control enteric infections in calves and
    swine

Surmax   
     (sold as
     Maxus   
     in some countries), a performance enhancer for swine and
    poultry

Elector    ,
    a parasiticide for use on cattle and premises

Two new products for dogs:
     Comfortis   tm  ,
    the first FDA-approved, chewable tablet that kills fleas and
    prevents flea infestations on dogs; and
     Reconcile   tm  ,
    for treatment of canine separation anxiety in conjunction with
    behavior modification training.

Other pharmaceuticals , including:

Vancocin   
     HCl, used primarily to treat staphylococcal infections

Ceclor   ,
     for the treatment of a wide range of bacterial infections.

Marketing  

We sell most of our products worldwide. We adapt our marketing
    methods and product emphasis in various countries to meet local
    needs.

Pharmaceuticals  
    United States  

In the United States, we distribute pharmaceutical products
    principally through independent wholesale distributors, with
    some sales directly to pharmacies. Our marketing policy is
    designed to assure that products and relevant medical
    information are immediately available to physicians, pharmacies,
    hospitals, public and private payers, and appropriate health
    care professionals throughout the country. Three wholesale
    distributors in the United States   AmerisourceBergen
    Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc., and McKesson
    Corporation   each accounted for between 12 and
    16 percent of our worldwide consolidated net sales in 2007.
    No other distributor accounted for more than 10 percent of
    consolidated net sales. We also sell pharmaceutical products
    directly to the United States government and other
    manufacturers, but those sales are not material.

-2-

We promote our major pharmaceutical products in the United
    States through sales representatives who call upon physicians
    and other health care professionals. We advertise in medical and
    drug journals, distribute literature and samples of certain
    products to physicians, and exhibit at medical meetings. In
    addition, we advertise certain products directly to consumers in
    the United States and we maintain web sites with information
    about all our major products. Divisions of our sales force are
    assigned to therapeutic areas, such as neuroscience, diabetes,
    osteoporosis, and oncology. We sometimes supplement our employee
    sales force with contract sales organizations.

Large purchasers of pharmaceuticals, such as managed-care
    groups, government agencies, and long-term care institutions,
    account for a significant portion of total pharmaceutical
    purchases in the United States. We have created special business
    groups to service wholesalers, managed-care organizations,
    government and long-term care institutions, hospitals, and
    certain retail pharmacies. In response to competitive pressures,
    we have entered into arrangements with a number of these
    organizations providing for discounts or rebates on one or more
    Lilly products.

Pharmaceuticals  
    Outside the United States  

Outside the United States, we promote our pharmaceutical
    products primarily through sales representatives. While the
    products marketed vary from country to country, neuroscience
    products constitute the largest single group in total sales.
    Distribution patterns vary from country to country. In most
    countries, we maintain our own sales organizations. In some
    countries, however, we market our products through independent
    distributors.

Pharmaceutical
    Marketing Collaborations  

Several of our significant products are marketed in
    collaboration with other pharmaceutical companies:

Cymbalta is co-promoted in the United States by Quintiles
    Transnational Corp. and is co-promoted or co-marketed outside
    the U.S. (except Japan) by Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH.

Through January 2007, Cialis was sold in North America and most
    of Europe by a joint venture between Lilly and
    ICOS Corporation, and was sold by us alone in other
    territories. On January 29, 2007, we acquired all the
    outstanding common stock of ICOS. Following the acquisition,
    Cialis is sold by Lilly in all territories.

We co-promoted Actos with a unit of Takeda Chemical Industries
    Ltd. in the United States until our U.S. marketing rights
    expired in September 2006; however, we are receiving residual
    royalties on U.S. Actos sales at declining annual rates
    through September 2009. We continue to have exclusive and
    semi-exclusive marketing rights to Actos in other countries.

We co-promote Byetta with Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the
    United States and Puerto Rico, and we have exclusive marketing
    rights in other territories.

We have also entered into licensing arrangements under which we
    have granted exclusive marketing rights to other companies in
    specified countries for certain older products manufactured by
    us, such as Ceclor and Vancocin.

Animal
    Health Products  

Our Elanco Animal Health business unit employs field salespeople
    throughout the United States to market animal health products.
    Elanco also has an extensive sales force outside the United
    States. Elanco sells its products primarily to wholesale
    distributors.

Competition  

Our pharmaceutical products compete with products manufactured
    by many other companies in highly competitive markets throughout
    the world. Our animal health products compete on a worldwide
    basis with products of animal health care companies as well as
    pharmaceutical, chemical, and other companies that operate
    animal health divisions or subsidiaries.

-3-

Important competitive factors include product efficacy, safety,
    and ease of use, price and demonstrated cost-effectiveness,
    marketing effectiveness, service, and research and development
    of new products and processes. If competitors introduce new
    products, delivery systems or processes with therapeutic or cost
    advantages, our products can be subject to progressive price
    reductions or decreased volume of sales, or both. Most new
    products that we introduce must compete with other products
    already on the market or products that are later developed by
    competitors. Manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals typically
    invest far less in research and development than research-based
    pharmaceutical companies and therefore can price their products
    significantly lower than branded products. Accordingly, when a
    branded product loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces
    intense price competition from generic forms of the product. In
    many countries outside the United States, patent protection is
    weak or nonexistent and we must compete with generic versions of
    our products. Increasingly, to obtain favorable reimbursement
    and formulary positioning with government payers, managed care
    and pharmacy benefits management organizations, we must
    demonstrate that our products offer not only medical benefits
    but also cost advantages as compared with other forms of care.

We believe our long-term competitive position depends upon our
    success in discovering and developing (either alone or in
    collaboration with others) innovative, cost-effective products
    that serve unmet medical needs, together with our ability to
    continuously improve the productivity of our discovery,
    development, manufacturing, marketing and support operations in
    a highly competitive environment. There can be no assurance that
    our research and development efforts will result in commercially
    successful products or that our products or processes will not
    become uncompetitive from time to time as a result of products
    or processes developed by our competitors.

Patents,
    Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights  

Overview  

Intellectual property protection is, in the aggregate, material
    to our ability to successfully commercialize our life sciences
    innovations. We own, have applied for, or are licensed under, a
    large number of patents, both in the United States and in other
    countries, relating to products, product uses, formulations, and
    manufacturing processes. There is no assurance that the patents
    we are seeking will be granted or that the patents we have been
    granted would be found valid and enforceable if challenged.
    Moreover, patents relating to particular products, uses,
    formulations, or processes do not preclude other manufacturers
    from employing alternative processes or from marketing
    alternative products or formulations that might successfully
    compete with our patented products. In addition, from time to
    time, competitors or other third parties assert claims that our
    activities infringe patents or other intellectual property
    rights held by them, or allege a third-party right of ownership
    in our existing intellectual property.

Outside the United States, the adequacy and effectiveness of
    intellectual property protection for pharmaceuticals varies
    widely. Under the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property
    Agreement (TRIPs) administered by the World Trade Organization
    (WTO), over 140 countries have now agreed to provide
    non-discriminatory protection for most pharmaceutical inventions
    and to assure that adequate and effective rights are available
    to all patent owners. Because of TRIPs transition provisions,
    dispute resolution mechanisms, and substantive limitations, it
    is still too soon to assess when and how much, if at all, we
    will benefit commercially from these changes.

When a product patent expires, the patent holder often loses
    effective market exclusivity for the product. This can result in
    a severe and rapid decline in sales of the formerly patented
    product, particularly in the United States. However, in
    some cases the innovator company may achieve exclusivity beyond
    the expiry of the product patent through manufacturing trade
    secrets; later-expiring patents on methods of use or
    formulations; or data-based exclusivity that may be available
    under pharmaceutical regulatory laws.

Our
    Intellectual Property Portfolio  

We consider intellectual property protection for certain
    products, processes, and uses   particularly those
    products discussed below   to be important to our
    operations. For many of our products, in addition to the

-4-

compound patent we hold other patents on manufacturing
    processes, formulations, or uses that may extend exclusivity
    beyond the expiration of the product patent.

The most relevant U.S. patent protection, together with
    expected expiration, for our major marketed products is as
    follows:

Alimta  is protected by a compound patent (2016).

Byetta  is protected by a patent covering its use in
    treating type 2 diabetes (2017).

Cialis  is protected by compound and use patents
    (2017).

Cymbalta  is protected by a compound patent
    (2013) and a composition patent (2014).

Evista  is protected by patents on the treatment and
    prevention of osteoporosis (2012 and 2014), and its dosage form
    (2017). Evista for use in breast cancer risk reduction is
    protected by orphan drug exclusivity (2014).

Gemzar  is protected by a compound patent
    (2010) and a patent covering its antineoplastic use (2013).

Humalog  is protected by a compound patent (2013).

Strattera  is protected by a patent covering its use
    in treating attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (2016).

Xigris  is protected by a product patent (2015).

Zyprexa  is protected by a compound patent (2011).

Worldwide, we sell all of our major products under trademarks
    that we consider in the aggregate to be important to our
    operations. Trademark protection varies throughout the world,
    with protection continuing in some countries as long as the mark
    is used, and in other countries as long as it is registered.
    Registrations are normally for fixed but renewable terms.

Patent
    Challenges Under the Hatch-Waxman Act  

The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of
    1984, commonly known as  Hatch-Waxman,  made a complex
    set of changes to both patent and new-drug-approval laws in the
    United States. Before Hatch-Waxman, no drug could be approved
    without providing the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
    complete safety and efficacy studies,  i.e. , a complete
    New Drug Application (NDA). Hatch-Waxman authorizes the FDA to
    approve generic versions of innovative pharmaceuticals (other
    than biological products) without such information by filing an
    Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA). In an ANDA, the generic
    manufacturer must demonstrate only  bioequivalence 
    between the generic version and the NDA-approved
    drug   not safety and efficacy.

Absent a successful patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an
    ANDA until after the innovator s patents expire. However,
    after the innovator has marketed its product for four years, a
    generic manufacturer may file an ANDA alleging that one or more
    of the patents listed in the innovator s NDA are invalid or
    not infringed. This allegation is commonly known as a
     Paragraph IV certification.  The innovator must
    then file suit against the generic manufacturer to protect its
    patents. If one or more of the NDA-listed patents are
    successfully challenged, the first filer of a Paragraph IV
    certification may be entitled to a
     180-day 
    period of market exclusivity over all other generic
    manufacturers.

In recent years, generic manufacturers have used
    Paragraph IV certifications extensively to challenge
    patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and we
    expect this trend to continue. We are currently in litigation
    with numerous generic manufacturers arising from their
    Paragraph IV certifications on Evista, Gemzar, and
    Strattera. For more information on these, see Part II,
    Item 7,  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis   Legal and Regulatory Matters. 

-5-

Government
    Regulation  

Regulation
    of Our Operations  

Our operations are regulated extensively by numerous national,
    state and local agencies. The lengthy process of laboratory and
    clinical testing, data analysis, manufacturing development, and
    regulatory review necessary for required governmental approvals
    is extremely costly and can significantly delay product
    introductions in a given market. Promotion, marketing,
    manufacturing, and distribution of pharmaceutical and animal
    health products are extensively regulated in all major world
    markets. We are required to conduct extensive post-marketing
    surveillance of the safety of the products we sell. In addition,
    our operations are subject to complex federal, state, local, and
    foreign laws and regulations concerning the environment,
    occupational health and safety, and privacy. The laws and
    regulations affecting the manufacture and sale of current
    products and the discovery, development and introduction of new
    products will continue to require substantial scientific and
    technical effort, time, and expense and significant capital
    investment.

Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States.
    Pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the FDA
    has jurisdiction over all of our products and administers
    requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness,
    manufacturing, quality control, distribution, labeling,
    marketing, advertising, dissemination of information and
    post-marketing surveillance of our pharmaceutical products. The
    FDA, along with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA),
    also regulates our animal health products. The
    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency also regulates some
    animal health products. In 2007, Congress passed the Food and
    Drug Administration Amendments Act (FDAAA) of 2007, which
    imposes additional requirements for drug development and
    commercialization and provides the FDA with further authorities
    and resources, particularly in the area of drug safety.

The FDA extensively regulates all aspects of manufacturing
    quality under its current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP)
    regulations. In recent years, we have made, and we continue to
    make, substantial investments of capital and operating expenses
    to implement comprehensive, company-wide improvements in our
    manufacturing, product and process development, and quality
    operations to ensure sustained cGMP compliance. However, in the
    event we fail to adhere to cGMP requirements in the future, we
    could be subject to interruptions in production, fines and
    penalties, and delays in new product approvals.

Outside the United States, our products and operations are
    subject to similar regulatory requirements, notably by the
    European Medicines Agency (EMEA) in the European Union and the
    Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) in Japan. Specific
    regulatory requirements vary from country to country.

The marketing, promotional, and pricing practices of
    pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which
    manufacturers interact with purchasers and prescribers, are
    subject to various other federal and state laws, including the
    federal anti-kickback statute and the False Claims Act and state
    laws governing kickbacks, false claims, unfair trade practices,
    and consumer protection. These laws are administered by, among
    others, the Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector
    General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the
    Federal Trade Commission, the Office of Personnel Management and
    state attorneys general. Over the past several years, the FDA,
    the Department of Justice, and many of these other agencies have
    increased their enforcement activities with respect to
    pharmaceutical companies. Over this period, several cases
    brought by these agencies against Lilly and other companies
    under these and other laws have resulted in corporate criminal
    sanctions and very substantial civil settlements. Several
    pharmaceutical companies, including Lilly, are currently subject
    to proceedings by one or more of these agencies regarding
    marketing and promotional practices. See Part II,
    Item 7,  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis   Legal and Regulatory Matters,  for
    information about currently pending marketing and promotional
    practices investigations in which we are involved. It is
    possible that we could become subject to additional
    administrative and legal proceedings and actions, which could
    include claims for civil penalties (including treble damages
    under the False Claims Act), criminal sanctions, and
    administrative remedies, including exclusion from federal health
    care programs. It is possible that an adverse outcome in such an
    action could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated
    results of operations, liquidity, and financial position.

-6-

Regulations
    Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement  

In the United States, we are required to provide rebates to
    state governments on their purchases of certain of our products
    under state Medicaid programs. Other cost containment measures
    have been adopted or proposed by federal, state, and local
    government entities that provide or pay for health care. In most
    international markets, we operate in an environment of
    government-mandated cost containment programs, which may include
    price controls, reference pricing, discounts and rebates,
    restrictions on physician prescription levels, restrictions on
    reimbursement, compulsory licenses, health economic assessments,
    and generic substitution.

In the U.S., implementation of the Medicare Prescription Drug,
    Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA), providing a
    prescription drug benefit under the Medicare program, took
    effect January 1, 2006. See Part II, Item 7,
     Management s Discussion and Analysis  
    Executive Overview   Legal, Regulatory, and Other
    Matters  for more discussion of MMA and other federal
    healthcare cost containment measures. At the state level, budget
    pressures are causing various states to impose cost-control
    measures such as higher rebates and more restrictive formularies.

International operations are also generally subject to extensive
    price and market regulations, and there are many proposals for
    additional cost-containment measures, including proposals that
    would directly or indirectly impose additional price controls,
    limit access to or reimbursement for our products, or reduce the
    value of our intellectual property protection.

We cannot predict the extent to which our business may be
    affected by these or other potential future legislative or
    regulatory developments. However, we expect that pressures on
    pharmaceutical pricing will continue to increase.

Research
    and Development  

Our commitment to research and development dates back more than
    100 years. Our research and development activities are
    responsible for the discovery and development of most of the
    products we offer today. We invest heavily in research and
    development because we believe it is critical to our long-term
    competitiveness. At the end of 2007, we employed approximately
    8,000 people in pharmaceutical and animal health research
    and development activities, including a substantial number of
    physicians, scientists holding graduate or postgraduate degrees,
    and highly skilled technical personnel. Our research and
    development expenses were $3.03 billion in 2005,
    $3.13 billion in 2006, and $3.49 billion in 2007.

Our pharmaceutical research and development focuses on four
    therapeutic categories: central nervous system and related
    diseases; endocrine diseases, including diabetes, obesity and
    musculoskeletal disorders; cancer; and cardiovascular diseases.
    However, we remain opportunistic, selectively pursuing promising
    leads in other therapeutic areas. We are actively engaged in
    biotechnology research programs involving recombinant DNA,
    therapeutic proteins and antibodies as well as genomics (the
    development of therapeutics through identification of
    disease-causing genes and their cellular function), biomarkers,
    and targeted therapeutics. In addition to discovering and
    developing new chemical entities, we look for ways to expand the
    value of existing products through new uses and formulations
    that can provide additional benefits to patients. We also
    conduct research in animal health, including animal nutrition
    and physiology, control of parasites, and veterinary medicine
    (both food and companion animal).

To supplement our internal efforts, we collaborate with others,
    including educational institutions and research-based
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and we contract with
    others for the performance of research in their facilities. We
    use the services of physicians, hospitals, medical schools, and
    other research organizations worldwide to conduct clinical
    trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of our
    products. We actively seek out investments in external research
    and technologies that hold the promise to complement and
    strengthen our own research efforts. These investments can take
    many forms, including licensing arrangements, co-development and
    co-marketing agreements, co-promotion arrangements, joint
    ventures, and acquisitions.

Drug development is time-consuming, expensive, and risky. On
    average, only one out of many thousands of chemical compounds
    discovered by researchers proves to be both medically effective
    and safe enough to become an approved medicine. The process from
    discovery to regulatory approval can take 12 to 15 years or

-7-

longer. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process,
    and even late-stage drug candidates sometimes fail to receive
    regulatory approval or commercial success. Even after approval
    and launch of a product, we expend considerable resources on
    post-marketing surveillance and clinical studies. We believe our
    investments in research, both internally and in collaboration
    with others, have been rewarded by the number of new compounds
    and new indications for existing compounds that we have in all
    stages of development. Among our new investigational compounds
    in the later stages of development are potential therapies for
    acute coronary syndromes, diabetes, osteoporosis, and cancer.
    Further, we are studying many other drug candidates in the
    earlier stages of development, including compounds targeting
    cancers, diabetes, obesity, Alzheimer s disease,
    schizophrenia, multiple sclerosis, depression, sleep disorders,
    pain and migraine, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder
    (ADHD), alcoholism, thrombotic disorders, and rheumatoid
    arthritis. At present we have approximately 45 drug candidates
    across all stages of clinical development. We are also
    developing new uses and formulations for many of these compounds
    as well as our currently marketed products, such as Zyprexa,
    Cymbalta, Byetta, Gemzar, Alimta, Cialis, and Forteo.

Raw
    Materials and Product Supply  

Most of the principal materials we use in our manufacturing
    operations are available from more than one source. We obtain
    certain raw materials principally from only one source. In
    addition, four of our significant products are manufactured by
    others: Actos by Takeda; ReoPro by Centocor; Xigris by Lonza
    Biologics (bulk product) and DSM, N.V. (finished product); and
    Byetta by third-party suppliers to Amylin. If we were unable to
    obtain certain materials from present sources, we could
    experience an interruption in supply until we established new
    sources or, in some cases, implemented alternative processes.

Our primary bulk manufacturing occurs at three sites in Indiana
    as well as locations in Ireland, Puerto Rico, and the United
    Kingdom. Finishing operations, including labeling and packaging,
    take place at a number of sites throughout the world.

We seek to design and operate our manufacturing facilities and
    maintain inventory in a way that will allow us to meet all
    expected product demand while maintaining flexibility to
    reallocate manufacturing capacity to improve efficiency and
    respond to changes in supply and demand. However, pharmaceutical
    production processes are complex, highly regulated, and vary
    widely from product to product. Shifting or adding manufacturing
    capacity can be a very lengthy process requiring significant
    capital expenditures and regulatory approvals. Accordingly, if
    we were to experience extended plant shutdowns or extraordinary
    unplanned increases in demand, we could experience an
    interruption in supply of certain products or product shortages
    until production could be resumed or expanded.

Quality
    Assurance  

Our success depends in great measure upon customer confidence in
    the quality of our products and in the integrity of the data
    that support their safety and effectiveness. Product quality
    arises from a total commitment to quality in all parts of our
    operations, including research and development, purchasing,
    facilities planning, manufacturing, and distribution. We have
    implemented quality-assurance procedures relating to the quality
    and integrity of scientific information and production processes.

Control of production processes involves rigid specifications
    for ingredients, equipment, facilities, manufacturing methods,
    packaging materials, and labeling. We perform tests at various
    stages of production processes and on the final product to
    assure that the product meets all regulatory requirements and
    our standards. These tests may involve chemical and physical
    chemical analyses, microbiological testing, testing in animals,
    or a combination. Additional assurance of quality is provided by
    a corporate quality-assurance group that monitors existing
    pharmaceutical and animal health manufacturing procedures and
    systems in the parent company, subsidiaries and affiliates, and
    third-party suppliers.

-8-

Executive
    Officers of the Company  

The following table sets forth certain information regarding our
    executive officers. All executive officers have been employed by
    the Company in executive positions during the last five years.

The term of office for each executive officer expires on the
    date of the annual meeting of the Board of Directors, to be held
    on April 21, 2008, or on the date his or her successor is
    chosen and qualified. No director or executive officer of the
    Company has a  family relationship  with any other
    director or executive officer of the Company, as that term is
    defined for purposes of this disclosure requirement. There is no
    understanding between any executive officer and any other person
    pursuant to which the executive officer was selected.

Name

Age

Offices

Sidney Taurel

59

Chairman of the Board (since January 1999) and Chief Executive
    Officer (since June 1998) and a Director

John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D. 

54

President and Chief Operating Officer (since October 2005) and a
    Director

Robert A. Armitage

59

Senior Vice President and General Counsel (since January 2003)

Alex M. Azar II

40

Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Communications
    (since June 2007)

Frank M. Deane, Ph.D. 

58

President, Manufacturing Operations (since June 2007)

Anthony J. Murphy, Ph.D. 

57

Senior Vice President, Human Resources (since June 2005)

Steven M. Paul, M.D. 

57

Executive Vice President, Science and Technology (since July
    2003)

Derica W. Rice

43

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (since May
    2006)

Gino Santini

51

Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Business
    Development (since June 2007)

Deirdre P. Connelly

47

President, U.S. Operations (since June 2005)

Lorenzo Tallarigo, M.D. 

57

President, International Operations (since January 2004)

Mr. Taurel will retire as Chief Executive Officer as of
    March 31, 2008, and as Chairman and a director as of
    December 31, 2008. On April 1, 2008,
    Dr. Lechleiter will become President and Chief Executive
    Officer. Dr. Tallarigo will retire as of March 31,
    2008, and on April 1, 2008, Bryce D. Carmine will become
    Executive Vice President, Marketing and Sales.

Employees  

At the end of 2007, we employed approximately
    40,600 people, including approximately
    19,100 employees outside the United States. A substantial
    number of our employees have long records of continuous service.

Financial
    Information Relating to Business Segments and Classes of
    Products  

You can find financial information relating to our business
    segments and classes of products in Part II, Item 8 of
    this
     Form 10-K, 
     Segment Information.  That information is
    incorporated here by reference.

The relative contribution of any particular product to our
    consolidated net sales changes from year to year. This is due to
    several factors, including the introduction of new products by
    us and by other manufacturers and the introduction of generic
    pharmaceuticals upon patent expirations. In addition, margins
    vary for our different products due to various factors,
    including differences in the cost to manufacture and market the
    products, the value of the products to the marketplace, and
    government restrictions on pricing and reimbursement. Our major
    product sales are generally not seasonal.

-9-

Financial
    Information Relating to Foreign and Domestic
    Operations  

You can find financial information relating to foreign and
    domestic operations in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K, 
     Segment Information.  That information is
    incorporated here by reference.

To date, our overall operations abroad have not been
    significantly deterred by local restrictions on the transfer of
    funds from branches and subsidiaries located abroad, including
    the availability of dollar exchange. We cannot predict what
    effect these restrictions or the other risks inherent in foreign
    operations, including possible nationalization, might have on
    our future operations or what other restrictions may be imposed
    in the future. In addition, changing currency values can either
    favorably or unfavorably affect our financial position and
    results of operations. We actively manage foreign exchange risk
    through various hedging techniques including the use of foreign
    currency contracts.

Available
    Information on Our Web Site  

We make available through our company web site, free of charge,
    our company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (SEC) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically
    file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The reports we make
    available include our annual reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    proxy statements, registration statements, and any amendments to
    those documents. The company web site link to our SEC filings is
     http://investor.lilly.com/edgar.cfm. 

In addition, the Corporate Governance portion of our web site
    includes our corporate governance guidelines, board and
    committee information (including committee charters), and our
    articles of incorporation and
     by-laws.  The
    link to our corporate governance information is
     http://investor.lilly.com/corp-gov.cfm. 

We will provide paper copies of our SEC filings and corporate
    governance documents free of charge upon request to the
    company s secretary at the address listed on the front of
    this
     Form 10-K. 

Item 1A:    

Risk
    Factors; Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking
    Statements

In addition to the other information contained in this
     Form 10-K, 
    the following risk factors should be considered carefully in
    evaluating our company. It is possible that our business,
    financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be
    materially adversely affected by any of these risks.

We have made certain forward-looking statements in this
     Form 10-K, 
    and company spokespeople may make such statements in the future
    based on then-current expectations of management. Where
    possible, we try to identify forward-looking statements by using
    such words as  expect,   plan, 
     will,   estimate,   forecast, 
     project,   believe, 
     anticipate,  and similar expressions. Forward-looking
    statements do not relate strictly to historical or current
    facts. They are likely to address our growth strategy, sales of
    current and anticipated products, financial results, the results
    of our research and development programs, the status of product
    approvals, and the outcome of contingencies such as litigation
    and investigations. All forward-looking statements made by us
    are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those
    summarized below.

We face intense competition.  We compete with large
    number of multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology
    companies and generic pharmaceutical companies. To compete
    successfully, we must continue to deliver to the market
    innovative, cost-effective products that meet important medical
    needs. Our product sales can be adversely affected by the
    introduction by competitors of branded products that are
    perceived as superior by the marketplace, by generic versions of
    our branded products, and by generic versions of other products
    in the same therapeutic class as our branded products. See
    Item 1,  Business   Competition,  for
    more details.

Our long-term success depends on intellectual property
    protection . Our long-term success depends on our
    ability to continually discover, develop, and commercialize
    innovative new pharmaceutical products. Without strong
    intellectual property protection, we would be unable to generate
    the returns necessary to support the enormous investments in
    research and development, capital, and other expenditures
    required to

-10-

bring new drugs to the market. We currently expect no major
    U.S. patent expirations in the next three years, but
    several major products will lose intellectual property
    protection beginning in 2011. See Item 1,
     Business   Patents, Trademarks, and Other
    Intellectual Property Protection,  for more details.

Intellectual property protection varies throughout the world and
    is subject to change over time. In the U.S., the Hatch-Waxman
    Act provides generic companies powerful incentives to seek to
    invalidate our patents; as a result, we expect that our
    U.S. patents on major products will be routinely
    challenged, and there can be no assurance that our patents will
    be upheld. See Item 1,  Business   Patents,
    Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Protection, 
    for more details. We are increasingly facing generic
    manufacturer challenges to our patents outside the U.S as well.
    In addition, competitors or other third parties may claim that
    our activities infringe patents or other intellectual property
    rights held by them. If successful, such claims could result in
    our being unable to market a product in a particular territory
    or being required to pay damages for past infringement or
    royalties on future sales.

Our business is subject to increasing government price
    controls and other health care cost containment
    measures.  Government health care cost-containment
    measures can significantly affect our sales and profitability.
    In many countries outside the United States, government agencies
    strictly control, directly or indirectly, the prices at which
    our products are sold. In the United States, we are subject to
    substantial pricing pressures from state Medicaid programs and
    private insurance programs, including those operating under the
    Medicare pharmaceutical benefit effective January 2006. Many
    federal and state legislative proposals would further negatively
    affect our pricing
     and/or 
    reimbursement for our products. We expect pricing pressures to
    increase. See Item I,  Business  
    Regulations Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing and
    Reimbursement,  for more details.

Pharmaceutical research and development is costly and
    uncertain.  There are many difficulties and
    uncertainties inherent in new product research and development
    and the introduction of new products. There is a high rate of
    failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs to treat
    diseases. To bring a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery
    phase to market may take a decade or more and failure can occur
    at any point in the process, including later in the process
    after significant funds have been invested. As a result, there
    is a significant risk that funds invested in research programs
    will not generate financial returns. New product candidates that
    appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or
    may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or
    safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory
    approvals, limited scope of approved uses, difficulty or
    excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of the patents
    or intellectual property rights of others. Delays and
    uncertainties in the FDA approval process and the approval
    processes in other countries can result in delays in product
    launches and lost market opportunity. In addition, it can be
    very difficult to predict sales growth rates of new products.

Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or
    efficacy concerns.  Unexpected safety or efficacy
    concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, whether or
    not scientifically justified, leading to product recalls,
    withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as product liability
    claims.

We depend on key products for most of our revenues, cash
    flows, and earnings.  Zyprexa sales of
    $4.76 billion represented 26 percent of our revenues
    in 2007. Five other products   Cymbalta, Gemzar,
    Humalog, Cialis, and Evista   each contributed more
    than $1 billion in revenues in 2007. If these or any of our
    other key products were to become subject to a problem such as
    loss of patent protection, materially adverse changes in
    prescription growth rates, unexpected side effects, regulatory
    proceedings, material product liability litigation, publicity
    affecting doctor or patient confidence, or pressure from
    competitive products, the adverse impact on our revenues, cash
    flows and earnings could be significant.

Regulatory compliance failures could be damaging to the
    company.  The marketing, promotional, and pricing
    practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner
    in which manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers,
    and patients, are subject to extensive regulation. Many
    companies, including Lilly, have been subject to claims related
    to these practices asserted by federal and state governmental
    authorities and private payers and consumers. These claims could
    result in substantial expense to the company. In particular, See
    Item 7,  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis   Legal and Regulatory Matters,  for the
    discussions of the U.S. sales and marketing practices
    investigations. In addition, regulatory

-11-

issues concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing
    Practice (cGMP) regulations for pharmaceutical products can lead
    to product recalls and seizures, interruption of production
    leading to product shortages, and delays in the approvals of new
    products pending resolution of the cGMP issues. See Item 1,
     Business   Regulation of our Operations, 
    for more details.

We face many product liability claims today, and future
    claims will be largely self-insured.  We are subject to
    a substantial number of product liability claims involving
    primarily Zyprexa, DES, and thimerosal, and because of the
    nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible that we could
    become subject to large numbers of product liability claims for
    other products in the future. See Item 7,
     Management s Discussion and Analysis  
    Legal and Regulatory Matters,  and Item 3,  Legal
    Proceedings,  for more information on our current product
    liability litigation. In the past few years, we have experienced
    difficulties in obtaining product liability insurance due to a
    very restrictive insurance market. Therefore, for substantially
    all our currently marketed products we have been and expect that
    we will continue to be largely self-insured for future product
    liability losses. In addition, there is no assurance that we
    will be able to fully collect from our insurance carriers on
    past claims.

Manufacturing difficulties could lead to product supply
    problems.  Pharmaceutical manufacturing is complex and
    highly regulated. Manufacturing difficulties can result in
    product shortages, leading to lost sales. See Item 1,
     Business   Raw Materials and Product
    Supply,  for more details.

We face other risks to our business and operating
    results.  Our business is subject to a number of other
    risks and uncertainties, including:

Economic factors over which we have no control, including
    changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency
    exchange rates, and overall economic conditions in volatile
    areas can affect our results of operations.

Changes in tax laws, including laws related to the remittance of
    foreign earnings or investments in foreign countries with
    favorable tax rates, and settlements of federal, state, and
    foreign tax audits, can affect our net income.

Changes in accounting standards promulgated by the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission, and the Emerging Issues Task Force can affect
    reported results.

Our results can also be affected by internal factors, such as
    changes in business strategies and the impact of restructurings,
    asset impairments, technology acquisition and disposition
    transactions, and business combinations.

We undertake no duty to update forward-looking statements.

Item 1B.    

Unresolved
    Staff Comments

None.

Item 2.    

Properties

Our principal domestic and international executive offices are
    located in Indianapolis. At December 31, 2007, we owned 13
    production and distribution facilities in the United States and
    Puerto Rico. Together with the corporate administrative offices,
    these facilities contain an aggregate of approximately
    13.0 million square feet of floor area dedicated to
    production, distribution, and administration. Major production
    sites include Indianapolis; Clinton and Lafayette, Indiana; and
    Carolina, Mayaguez and Guayama, Puerto Rico.

We own production and distribution facilities in 14 countries
    outside the United States and Puerto Rico, containing an
    aggregate of approximately 3.9 million square feet of floor
    space. Major production sites include facilities in France,
    Ireland, Spain, Brazil, Italy, the United Kingdom, and Mexico.
    We lease production and warehouse facilities in Puerto Rico and
    several countries outside the United States.

-12-

Our research and development facilities in the United States
    consist of approximately 4.1 million square feet and are
    located primarily in Indianapolis and Greenfield, Indiana. Our
    major research and development facilities abroad are located in
    United Kingdom, Canada, Singapore, and Spain, and contain an
    aggregate of approximately 350,000 square feet.

We believe that none of our properties is subject to any
    encumbrance, easement, or other restriction that would detract
    materially from its value or impair its use in the operation of
    the business. The buildings we own are of varying ages and in
    good condition.

Item 3.    

Legal
    Proceedings

We are a party to various currently pending legal actions,
    government investigations, and environmental proceedings, and we
    anticipate that such actions could be brought against us in the
    future. The most significant of these matters are described
    below or, as noted, in Part II, Item 7,
     Management s Discussion and Analysis  
    Legal and Regulatory Matters.  While it is not possible to
    determine the outcome of the legal actions, investigations and
    proceedings brought against us, we believe that, except as
    otherwise specifically noted in Part II, Item 7, the
    resolution of all such matters will not have a material adverse
    effect on our consolidated financial position or liquidity, but
    could possibly be material to our consolidated results of
    operations in any one accounting period.

Legal
    Proceedings Described in Management s Discussion and
    Analysis  

See Part II, Item 7,  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis   Legal and Regulatory
    Matters,  for information on various legal proceedings,
    including but not limited to:

The U.S. patent litigation involving Evista, Gemzar,
    Strattera, and Xigris

The patent litigation outside the U.S. involving Zyprexa

The investigations by the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern
    District of Pennsylvania and various state attorneys general
    relating to our U.S. sales, marketing, and promotional
    practices

The Zyprexa product liability and related litigation, including
    claims brought on behalf of state Medicaid agencies and private
    healthcare payers

That information is incorporated into this Item by reference.

Other
    Patent Litigation  

Dr. Reddy s Laboratories, Ltd. (Reddy), Teva
    Pharmaceuticals, and Zenith Goldline Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
    which was subsequently acquired by Teva Pharmaceuticals
    (together Teva), each submitted Abbreviated New Drug
    Applications (ANDAs) seeking permission to market generic
    versions of
    Zyprexa   
    prior to the expiration of our relevant U.S. patent
    (expiring in 2011) and alleging that this patent was
    invalid or not enforceable. We filed lawsuits against these
    companies in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
    District of Indiana, seeking a ruling that the patent is valid,
    enforceable, and being infringed. The district court ruled in
    our favor on all counts on April 14, 2005, and on
    December 26, 2006, that ruling was upheld by the Court of
    Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On October 1, 2007, the
    United States Supreme Court denied the generic companies 
    petition for certiorari, bringing this litigation to a close.

In June 2005, Dr. Alan Schreiber filed a lawsuit against us
    in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
    Pennsylvania raising a number of claims, including patent
    infringement, misappropriation of trade secrets, breach of
    contract, and unjust enrichment, and seeking a declaration for
    inventorship of Lilly s Evista method-of-use patents. After
    the original lawsuit was filed, the University of Pennsylvania
    was added as a plaintiff. No trial date has been scheduled. We
    believe these claims are without legal merit and expect to
    prevail in this litigation; however, it is not possible to
    determine the outcome. An unfavorable final outcome could have a
    material adverse impact on our consolidated results of
    operations, liquidity, and financial position.

-13-

In July 2005, Vanderbilt University filed a lawsuit in the
    United States District Court in Delaware against
    ICOS Corporation seeking to add three of its scientists as
    co-inventors on the Cialis compound and method-of-use patents.
    The trial was held in front of the district court judge in
    January 2008 but a decision has yet to be rendered. We believe
    these claims are without legal merit and expect to prevail in
    this litigation; however, it is not possible to determine the
    outcome. An unfavorable final outcome could have a material
    adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations,
    liquidity, and financial position.

In October 2002, Pfizer Inc. was issued a method-of-use patent
    in the United States and commenced a lawsuit in the United
    States District Court in Delaware against us, Lilly ICOS LLC,
    and ICOS Corporation (both now subsidiaries of Lilly)
    alleging that the marketing of Cialis for erectile dysfunction
    infringed this patent. This litigation has been stayed pending
    the outcome of a reexamination of the patent by the
    U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The Office has now made a
    final rejection of the relevant patent claims which Pfizer is
    appealing. We believe Pfizer s claims are without merit and
    expect to prevail. However, it is not possible to determine the
    outcome of this litigation.

Other
    Product Liability Litigation  

We are currently a defendant in a variety of product liability
    lawsuits in the United States involving primarily Zyprexa,
    diethylstilbestrol ( DES ) and thimerosal.

In approximately 85 U.S. actions involving approximately
    140 claimants, plaintiffs seek to recover damages on behalf of
    children or grandchildren of women who were prescribed DES
    during pregnancy.

We have been named as a defendant in approximately 220 actions
    in the U.S., involving approximately 310 claimants, brought
    in various state courts and federal district courts on behalf of
    children with autism or other neurological disorders who
    received childhood vaccines (manufactured by other companies)
    that contained thimerosal, a generic preservative used in
    certain vaccines in the U.S. beginning in the 1930s. We
    purchased patents and conducted research pertaining to
    thimerosal in the 1920s. We have been named in the suits even
    though we discontinued manufacturing the raw material in 1974
    and discontinued selling it in the United States to vaccine
    manufacturers in 1992. The lawsuits typically name the vaccine
    manufacturers as well as Lilly and other distributors of
    thimerosal, and allege that the children s exposure to
    thimerosal-containing vaccines caused their autism or other
    neurological disorders. We strongly deny any liability in these
    cases. There is no credible scientific evidence establishing a
    causal relationship between thimerosal-containing vaccines and
    autism or other neurological disorders. In addition, we believe
    the majority of the cases should not be prosecuted in the courts
    in which they have been brought because the underlying claims
    are subject to the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of
    1986. Implemented in 1988, the Act established a mandatory,
    federally administered no-fault claims process for individuals
    who allege that they were harmed by the administration of
    childhood vaccines. Under the Act, claims must first be brought
    before the U.S. Court of Claims for an award determination
    under the compensation guidelines established pursuant to the
    Act. Claimants who are unsatisfied with their awards under the
    Act may reject the award and seek traditional judicial remedies.

Other
    Marketing Practices Investigations  

In February 2006, we reached a settlement of an investigation by
    the Office of Consumer Litigation, Department of Justice,
    related to our marketing and promotional practices and physician
    communications with respect to Evista. As part of the
    settlement, we agreed to plead guilty to one misdemeanor
    violation of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The plea was for
    the off-label promotion of Evista during 1998. The government
    did not charge the company with any unlawful intent, nor do we
    acknowledge any such intent. In connection with the overall
    settlement, we paid a total of $36.0 million. In addition,
    as part of the settlement, a civil consent decree requires us to
    continue to have a compliance program and to undertake a set of
    defined corporate integrity obligations related to Evista for
    five years.

In August 2003, we received notice that the staff of the SEC is
    conducting an investigation into the compliance by Polish
    subsidiaries of certain pharmaceutical companies, including
    Lilly, with the U.S. Foreign

-14-

Corrupt Practices Act of 1977. The staff has issued subpoenas to
    us requesting production of documents related to the
    investigation. We are cooperating with the SEC in responding to
    the investigation.

Shareholder
    Litigation  

Two lawsuits that seek class action status were filed in the
    United States District Court for the Eastern District of New
    York against us and various current and former directors,
    officers and employees ( Smith et al. v. Eli Lilly and
    Company et al. , filed March 28, 2007, and
     Valentine v. Eli Lilly and Company et al.,  filed
    April 5, 2007). The suits have been consolidated under the
    caption  In re Eli Lilly and Company Securities
    Litigation . In August 2007, the lead plaintiffs filed a
    consolidated amended complaint, seeking certification of a
    putative class of purchasers of our stock from August 1,
    2002, through December 22, 2006. The complaint alleges that
    the defendants made false and misleading statements regarding
    Zyprexa in violation of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and
    seeks unspecified compensatory damages and the costs of suit,
    including attorneys  fees. In October 2007, defendants
    filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint.
    That motion has been converted in part to a motion for summary
    judgment, and a hearing on the motion is scheduled in March
    2008. We believe these claims are without merit and are prepared
    to defend against them vigorously.

In April 2007, the company received demands from two
    shareholders that the board of directors cause the company to
    take legal action against current and former directors and
    others for allegedly causing damage to the company with respect
    to the allegedly improper marketing of Evista, Prozac, and
    Zyprexa. We received a similar demand in September related only
    to Zyprexa. In accordance with procedures established under the
    Indiana Business Corporation Law (Ind. Code
      23-1-32), the board has appointed a committee of
    independent persons to consider the demands and determine what
    action, if any, the company should take in response. In January
    2008, two of the three shareholders who had submitted the
    demands filed a derivative suit in the United States District
    Court for the Southern District of Indiana, nominally on behalf
    of the company, against various current and former directors and
    officers ( Lambrecht, et al. v. Taurel, et al. , filed
    January 17, 2008). The suit alleges that the board of
    directors constructively denied the shareholders  prior
    demands by failing to take action on the demands sufficiently
    promptly. We believe this suit is without merit and are prepared
    to defend against it vigorously.

Other
    Matters  

In October 2005, we received a subpoena from the
    U.S. Attorney s office for the District of
    Massachusetts for the production of documents relating to our
    business relationship with a long-term care pharmacy
    organization concerning Actos, Evista, Humalog, Humulin, and
    Zyprexa. We are cooperating in responding to the subpoena.

Between 2003 and 2005, various municipalities in New York sued
    us and many other pharmaceutical manufacturers, claiming in
    general that as a result of alleged improprieties by the
    manufacturers in the calculation and reporting of average
    wholesale prices for purposes of Medicaid reimbursement, the
    municipalities overpaid their portion of the cost of
    pharmaceuticals. The suits seek monetary and other relief,
    including civil penalties and treble damages. A similar suit was
    filed against us and many other manufacturers by the state of
    Mississippi. In October and November of 2007, respectively, the
    States of Iowa and Utah filed similar suits against Lilly and
    several other pharmaceutical manufacturers. These suits are
    pending either in the U.S. District Court for the District
    of Massachusetts or in various state courts. All of these suits
    are in the early stages.

During 2004 we, along with several other pharmaceutical
    companies, were named in one consolidated case in Minnesota
    federal court brought on behalf of consumers alleging that the
    conduct of pharmaceutical companies in preventing commercial
    importation of prescription drugs from outside the United States
    violated antitrust laws, and one case in California state court
    brought by several pharmacies in which plaintiffs  claims
    are less specifically stated, but are substantially similar to
    the claims asserted in Minnesota. Both cases seek restitution
    for alleged overpayments for pharmaceuticals and an injunction
    against the allegedly violative conduct. The federal district
    court in the Minnesota case has dismissed the federal claims,
    ruling that the state claims must be brought in separate state
    court actions. The Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals has affirmed
    the district court s

-15-

decision, and the time for further appeals has lapsed. In the
    California case, summary judgment has been granted to Lilly and
    the other defendants. The plaintiffs have appealed that decision.

We have received requests for information about Zyprexa from the
    offices of Representative Henry Waxman, Chair of the House
    Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Senator
    Charles Grassley, ranking member of the Senate Finance
    Committee. We have also received a request from Representative
    Waxman s office for information about drug pricing under
    Medicare Part D. We are cooperating with these requests.

Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
    and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, we have been
    designated as one of several potentially responsible parties
    with respect to the cleanup of fewer than 10 sites. Under
    Superfund, each responsible party may be jointly and severally
    liable for the entire amount of the cleanup.

We are also a defendant in other litigation and investigations,
    including product liability, patent and employment litigation,
    of a character we regard as normal to our business.

Item 4.    

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

During the fourth quarter of 2007, no matters were submitted to
    a vote of security holders.

Part II

Item 5.    

Market for
    the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

You can find information relating to the principal market for
    our common stock and related stockholder matters at
    Part II, Item 8 under  Selected Quarterly Data
    (unaudited)  and  Selected Financial Data
    (unaudited).  That information is incorporated here by
    reference.

The following table summarizes the activity related to
    repurchases of our equity securities during the fourth quarter
    ended December 31, 2007:

The amounts presented in columns (a) and (b) above
    represent purchases of common stock related to employee stock
    option exercises. The amounts presented in columns (c) and
    (d) in the above table represent activity related to our
    $3.00 billion share repurchase program announced in March
    2000. As of December 31, 2007, we have purchased
    $2.58 billion related to this program.

Item 6.    

Selected
    Financial Data

You can find selected financial data for each of our five most
    recent fiscal years in Part II, Item 8 under
     Selected Financial Data (unaudited).  That
    information is incorporated here by reference.

-16-

Item 7.    

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition

Review of
    Operations

EXECUTIVE
    OVERVIEW  

This section provides an overview of our financial results,
    significant business development, recent product and late-stage
    pipeline developments, and legal, regulatory, and other matters
    affecting our company and the pharmaceutical industry.

Financial
    Results   

We achieved worldwide sales growth of 19 percent. This
    growth was primarily driven by volume increases in a number of
    key products, with a significant portion of this increase in
    volume resulting from the acquisition of ICOS. Our additional
    investments in marketing and selling expenses in support of key
    products, primarily
    Cymbalta   
    and the diabetes care products, contributed to this sales growth
    and enabled us to increase our investment in research and
    development 11 percent in 2007. While cost of sales and
    operating expenses in the aggregate grew at approximately the
    same rate as sales, other income   net decreased and
    the effective tax rate increased. As a result, net income and
    earnings per share increased 11 percent, to
    $2.95 billion, or $2.71 per share, in 2007 as compared with
    $2.66 billion, or $2.45 per share, in 2006. Net income
    comparisons between 2007 and 2006 are affected by the impact of
    the following significant items that are reflected in our
    financial results (see Notes 3, 4, and 13 to the
    consolidated financial statements for additional information):

2007  

We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other
    special charges of $98.2 million (pretax) in the fourth
    quarter, which decreased earnings per share by $.07. In the
    first quarter, we recognized similar charges associated with
    previously announced strategic decisions affecting manufacturing
    and research facilities of $123.0 million (pretax), which
    decreased earnings per share by $.08 (Note 4).

We incurred a special charge following a settlement with one of
    our insurance carriers over
    Zyprexa   
    product liability claims, which led to a reduction of our
    expected product liability insurance recoveries. This resulted
    in a charge of $81.3 million (pretax), which decreased
    earnings per share by $.06 in the third quarter (Notes 4
    and 13).

We incurred in-process research and development (IPR D)
    charges associated with our licensing arrangement with Glenmark
    Pharmaceuticals Limited India of $45.0 million (pretax) and
    our licensing arrangement with MacroGenics, Inc., of
    $44.0 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share
    by $.05 in the fourth quarter (Note 3).

We incurred IPR D charges associated with the acquisition
    of Hypnion, Inc. (Hypnion), of $291.1 million (no tax
    benefit) and the acquisition of Ivy Animal Health, Inc. (Ivy),
    of $37.0 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per
    share by $.29 in the second quarter (Note 3).

We incurred IPR D charges associated with the acquisition
    of ICOS of $303.5 million (no tax benefit) and a licensing
    arrangement with OSI Pharmaceuticals of $25.0 million
    (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.29 in the
    first quarter (Note 3).

2006  

We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other
    special charges of $450.3 million (pretax) in the fourth
    quarter, which decreased earnings per share by $.31
    (Note 4).

In the fourth quarter, we incurred a charge related to Zyprexa
    product liability litigation matters of $494.9 million
    (pretax), or $.42 per share (Notes 4 and 13).

-17-

Late-Stage
    Pipeline Developments and Business Development
    Activity   

Our long-term success depends, to a great extent, on our ability
    to continue to discover and develop innovative pharmaceutical
    products and acquire or collaborate on compounds currently in
    development by other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies.
    We have achieved a number of successes with late-stage pipeline
    developments and recent business development transactions within
    the past year, including:

Pipeline  

On December 26, 2007, together with our collaboration
    partner Daiichi Sankyo Company, Limited, we submitted a New Drug
    Application (NDA) for prasugrel to the U.S. Food and Drug
    Administration (FDA). The proposed trademark for prasugrel is
    Effient  tm  .
    The submission follows the release of results of the TRITON
    TIMI-38 Phase III
     head-to-head 
    study of prasugrel versus clopidogrel in November.

In January 2008, the FDA approved
    Cialis   
    for once-daily use to treat erectile dysfunction. Cialis was
    approved by the European Commission for once-daily use in June
    2007.

In November, the FDA approved Cymbalta for the maintenance
    treatment of major depressive disorder in adults. In February,
    the FDA approved Cymbalta for the treatment of generalized
    anxiety disorder. During 2007, we submitted a Supplemental New
    Drug Application to the FDA for Cymbalta for the management of
    fibromyalgia.

In October, with our collaboration partners Amylin
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Alkermes, Inc., we announced positive
    results from a 30-week comparator study of once-weekly exenatide
    long-acting release injection and
    Byetta   
    (exenatide) injection taken twice daily in patients with type 2
    diabetes.

In the second quarter, we submitted NDAs to the FDA and the
    European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for approval of olanzapine
    (Zyprexa) long-acting injection. In late February 2008, the FDA
    issued a  not approvable  letter, stating it needs
    more information to better understand the risk and underlying
    cause of excessive sedation events that have been observed in
    about one percent of patients in clinical trials.

-18-

In September, the FDA approved
    Evista   
    for a new use to reduce the risk of invasive breast cancer in
    two populations: postmenopausal women with osteoporosis and
    postmenopausal women at high risk for invasive breast cancer.

We submitted an application to the EMEA for centralized review
    of
    Alimta   ,
    in combination with cisplatin, for the first-line treatment of
    non-small cell lung cancer.

Business
    Development  

In December, we entered into a licensing and development
    agreement with BioMS Medical Corp. whereby we acquired exclusive
    worldwide rights to a multiple sclerosis (MS) compound. The
    compound is currently being evaluated in two pivotal
    Phase III clinical trials in secondary progressive MS
    (SPMS) and one Phase II clinical trial in
    relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS). In connection with this
    agreement, we will incur a charge to earnings for acquired
    IPR D of $87.0 million (pretax), which will be
    included as expense in the first quarter of 2008.

In October, we entered into an agreement with Glenmark
    Pharmaceuticals Limited India whereby we acquired the rights to
    a portfolio of transient receptor potential vanilloid
     sub-family  1
    (TRPV1) antagonist molecules, including a clinical-phase
    compound. The compound is currently in Phase II development
    as a potential next-generation treatment for various pain
    conditions, including osteoarthritic pain.

In October, we entered into a global strategic alliance with
    MacroGenics, Inc., to develop and commercialize teplizumab, a
    humanized anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody, as well as other
    potential next-generation anti-CD3 molecules for use in the
    treatment of autoimmune diseases. As part of the arrangement, we
    acquired the exclusive rights to the molecule. Teplizumab is
    currently being studied in the PROT G  trial, a global
    pivotal Phase II/III clinical trial for individuals with
    recent-onset type 1 diabetes.

In June, we completed the acquisition of Ivy Animal Health,
    Inc., a privately held applied research and pharmaceutical
    product development company focused on the animal health
    industry. The acquisition provides us with product lines that
    complement those of our animal health business.

In April, we completed the acquisition of Hypnion, Inc., a
    privately held neuroscience drug discovery company focused on
    sleep disorders. The deal expands our presence in the area of
    sleep disorder research and provides ownership of a novel
    Phase II insomnia compound with a dual mechanism of action
    aimed at promoting better sleep onset and sleep maintenance.

In January, we completed the acquisition of ICOS at a cost of
    approximately $2.3 billion. The acquisition brings the full
    value of Cialis to us and enables us to realize operational
    efficiencies in the further development, marketing, and selling
    of this product.

In January, we licensed from OSI Pharmaceuticals its glucokinase
    activator (GKA) program for the treatment of type 2 diabetes,
    including the lead compound. Lilly received an exclusive license
    to develop and market any compounds derived from the GKA program.

Legal,
    Regulatory, and Other Matters   

In October, the United States Supreme Court denied the petitions
    for certiorari that were filed by Teva Pharmaceuticals and
    Dr. Reddy s Laboratories, bringing to an end the two
    companies  challenges to the validity of Lilly s
    U.S. Zyprexa patent.

In June, we received notice of two court rulings by the Canadian
    Federal Court and the German Patent Court that permit the entry
    of generic olanzapine (Zyprexa) by competitors into the Canadian
    and German markets. Generic olanzapine is now available for sale
    by competitors in Canada and Germany.

We have reached agreements with claimants  attorneys
    involved in U.S. Zyprexa product liability litigation to
    settle a total of approximately 31,200 claims against us
    relating to the medication. Approximately 1,235 claims remain.
    As a result of our product liability exposures, since the
    beginning of 2005, we have recorded aggregate net pretax charges
    of $1.61 billion for Zyprexa product liability matters.

-19-

In March 2004, we were notified by the U.S. Attorney s
    office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (EDPA) that it
    had commenced an investigation relating to our
    U.S. marketing and promotional practices for Zyprexa,
    Prozac   ,
    and Prozac
    Weekly  tm  .
    In November 2007, we received a grand jury subpoena from the
    EDPA requesting documents related to Zyprexa.

In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug,
    Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA) continues to
    effectively provide a prescription drug benefit under the
    Medicare program (known as Medicare Part D). Various
    measures have been discussed
     and/or 
    passed in both the U.S. House of Representatives and
    U.S. Senate that would impose additional pricing pressures
    on our products, including proposals to legalize the importation
    of prescription drugs and either allow, or require, the
    Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate drug prices
    within Medicare Part D directly with pharmaceutical
    manufacturers. Additionally, various proposals have been
    introduced that would increase the rebates we pay on sales to
    Medicaid patients. We expect pricing pressures at the federal
    and state levels to continue.

In 2007, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services released
    a final rule seeking to implement sections of the Deficit
    Reduction Act of 2005. This rule relates to the Medicaid program
    and among other things, sets out a methodology for the
    calculation and use of Average Manufacturer Price and Best Price
    for pharmaceuticals. We have implemented the final rule, which
    has the effect of reducing net selling prices for Medicaid
    sales; however, we do not expect the impact to be material to
    our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, or financial
    position.

International operations also are generally subject to extensive
    price and market regulations, and there are many proposals for
    additional cost-containment measures, including proposals that
    would directly or indirectly impose additional price controls or
    reduce the value of our intellectual property protection.

OPERATING
    RESULTS   2007  

Sales  

Our worldwide sales for 2007 increased 19 percent, to
    $18.63 billion, driven primarily by the inclusion of Cialis
    since our January 29, 2007 acquisition of ICOS and sales
    growth of Cymbalta, Zyprexa, Alimta,
    Gemzar   ,
    and
    Humalog   .
    Worldwide sales volume increased 12 percent, while selling
    prices and foreign exchange rates each increased sales by
    3 percent. (Numbers do not add due to rounding.) Sales in
    the U.S. increased 18 percent, to $10.15 billion,
    driven primarily by increased sales of Cymbalta, Zyprexa,
    Alimta, and Byetta, and the inclusion of Cialis. Sales outside
    the U.S. increased 20 percent, to $8.49 billion,
    driven primarily by the inclusion of Cialis, and sales growth of
    Zyprexa, Alimta, Gemzar, and Cymbalta.

Zyprexa, our top-selling product, is a treatment for
    schizophrenia, acute mixed or manic episodes associated with
    bipolar I disorder and bipolar maintenance. Zyprexa sales in the
    U.S. increased 6 percent in 2007, driven by higher net
    selling prices, partially offset by lower demand. Sales outside
    the U.S. increased 12 percent, driven by the favorable
    impact of foreign exchange rates and increased demand.

Sales of Cymbalta, a product for the treatment of major
    depressive disorder, diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain, and
    generalized anxiety disorder, increased 58 percent in the
    U.S., driven primarily by strong demand. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 70 percent, driven by increased demand
    and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates.

Sales of Gemzar, a product approved to fight various cancers,
    increased 10 percent in the U.S., driven by higher prices
    and increased demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased
    16 percent, driven by increased demand and the favorable
    impact of foreign exchange rates.

Sales of Humalog, our injectable human insulin analog for the
    treatment of diabetes, increased 9 percent in the U.S.,
    driven by higher prices and increased demand. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 20 percent, driven by increased demand
    and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, partially
    offset by declining prices.

-20-

The following table summarizes our net sales activity in 2007
    compared with 2006:

NM   Not meaningful

1   

U.S. sales include sales in Puerto
    Rico.

2   

Prior to the acquisition of ICOS,
    the Cialis sales shown in the table above represent results only
    in the territories in which we marketed Cialis exclusively. The
    remaining sales relate to the joint-venture territories of Lilly
    ICOS LLC (North America, excluding Puerto Rico, and Europe). Our
    share of the joint-venture territory sales, net of expenses and
    income taxes, is reported in other income   net in our
    consolidated income statement. Subsequent to the acquisition,
    all Cialis product sales are reported in our net sales.

-21-

Total worldwide sales of Cialis, a treatment for erectile
    dysfunction, were $1.22 billion and $971.0 million
    during 2007 and 2006, respectively. This includes
    $72.7 million of sales in the Lilly ICOS joint-venture
    territories for the 2007 period prior to the acquisition of
    ICOS. Worldwide sales grew 25 percent in 2007.
    U.S. sales increased 20 percent in 2007, driven by
    increased demand and higher prices. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 28 percent in 2007, driven by increased
    demand, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, and
    higher prices. Prior to the ICOS acquisition, Cialis sales in
    our territories were reported in net sales, while our
    50 percent share of the joint-venture net income was
    reported in other income   net. All sales of Cialis
    subsequent to the ICOS acquisition are reported in our net sales.

Sales of Evista, a product for the prevention and treatment of
    osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and for risk reduction of
    invasive breast cancer in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis
    and postmenopausal women at high risk for invasive breast
    cancer, increased 6 percent in the U.S., driven by higher
    prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 1 percent,
    driven by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates,
    partially offset by lower prices and lower demand.

Sales of Humulin, an injectable human insulin for the treatment
    of diabetes, decreased 1 percent in the U.S., driven by
    lower demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales outside
    the U.S. increased 11 percent, driven by increased
    demand and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates,
    partially offset by lower prices.

Sales of Alimta, a second-line treatment for non-small cell lung
    cancer and in combination with another agent, for the treatment
    of malignant pleural mesothelioma, increased 28 percent in
    the U.S., driven by increased demand and to a lesser extent,
    higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased
    55 percent, driven by increased demand and to a lesser
    extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates.

Sales of Forteo, an injectable treatment for osteoporosis in
    postmenopausal women and men at high risk for fracture,
    increased 19 percent in the U.S., driven by higher net
    selling prices. U.S. sales growth benefited from access to
    medical coverage through the Medicare Part D program and
    decreased utilization of our U.S. patient assistance
    program and to a lesser extent, increased demand. Sales outside
    the U.S. increased 21 percent, driven by increased
    demand and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates.

-22-

Sales of Strattera, a treatment for attention-deficit
    hyperactivity disorder in children, adolescents, and adults,
    decreased 9 percent in the U.S., as a result of decreased
    demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased 50 percent,
    driven by increased demand and the favorable impact of foreign
    exchange rates.

Our revenues from Actos, an oral agent for the treatment of type
    2 diabetes, a portion of which represent revenues from a
    copromotion agreement in the U.S. with Takeda
    Pharmaceuticals North America (Takeda), decreased
    46 percent in the U.S. Actos is manufactured by Takeda
    Chemical Industries, Ltd., and sold in the U.S. by Takeda.
    Our U.S. marketing rights with respect to Actos expired in
    September 2006; however, we continue to receive royalties from
    Takeda through September 2009 at rates that decline each year.
    Our arrangement outside the U.S. continues. Sales outside
    the U.S. increased 30 percent, driven primarily by
    increased demand and to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of
    foreign exchange rates.

Worldwide sales of Byetta, an injectable product for the
    treatment of type 2 diabetes, which we market with Amylin
    Pharmaceuticals (Amylin), increased 51 percent to
    $650.2 million during 2007. We report as revenue our
    50 percent share of Byetta s gross margin in the U.S.,
    100 percent of Byetta sales outside the U.S., and our sales
    of Byetta pen delivery devices to Amylin. Our revenues increased
    51 percent to $330.7 million in 2007.

Animal health product sales in the U.S. increased
    18 percent, driven by increased demand, the acquisition of
    Ivy Animal Health, and new companion-animal product launches.
    Sales outside the U.S. increased 10 percent, driven by
    the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates and increased
    demand.

Gross
    Margin, Costs, and Expenses  

The 2007 gross margin decreased to 77.2 percent of
    sales compared with 77.4 percent for 2006. This decrease
    was primarily due to the expense resulting from the amortization
    of the intangible assets acquired in the ICOS acquisition, the
    unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates, and production
    volumes growing at a slower rate than sales, offset partially by
    manufacturing expenses growing at a slower rate than sales.

Operating expenses (the aggregate of research and development
    and marketing, selling, and administrative expenses) increased
    19 percent in 2007. Investment in research and development
    increased 11 percent, to $3.49 billion. In addition to
    the acquisition of ICOS, this increase was due to increases in
    discovery research and late-stage clinical trial costs. We
    continued to be a leader in our industry peer group by investing

-23-

approximately 19 percent of our sales into research and
    development during 2007. Marketing, selling, and administrative
    expenses increased 25 percent in 2007, to
    $6.10 billion. This increase was largely due to the impact
    of the ICOS acquisition, as well as increased marketing and
    selling expenses in support of key products, primarily Cymbalta
    and the diabetes care products, and the unfavorable impact of
    foreign exchange rates.

Acquired IPR D charges were $745.6 million in 2007 and
    related to the acquisitions of ICOS, Hypnion, and Ivy, as well
    as our licensing arrangements with OSI, MacroGenics, and
    Glenmark. We incurred asset impairments, restructuring, and
    other special charges of $302.5 million in 2007 as compared
    to $945.2 million in 2006. See Notes 3, 4 and 13 to
    the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Other income   net decreased $115.8 million, to
    $122.0 million. This line item consists of interest
    expense, interest income, the after-tax operating results of the
    Lilly ICOS joint venture, and all other miscellaneous income and
    expense items.

We incurred tax expense of $923.8 million in 2007,
    resulting in an effective tax rate of 23.8 percent,
    compared with 22.1 percent for 2006. The effective tax
    rates for 2007 and 2006 were affected primarily by the
    nondeductible ICOS and Hypnion IPR D charges of
    $594.6 million in 2007, and the product liability charges
    of $494.9 million in 2006. The tax effect of the product
    liability charge was less than our effective tax rate, as the
    tax benefit was calculated based upon existing tax laws in the
    countries in which we reasonably expect to deduct the charge.
    See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for
    additional information.

-24-

OPERATING
    RESULTS   2006  

Financial
    Results  

We achieved worldwide sales growth of 7 percent, primarily
    as a result of strong growth of our newer products. We increased
    our investment in marketing expenses in support of key products,
    primarily Cymbalta and the diabetes care products, and continued
    our commitment to research and development, investing
    approximately 20 percent of our sales during 2006. Our
    results also benefited from continued growth in profitability of
    the Lilly ICOS joint venture as well as cost-containment and
    productivity initiatives. Net income was $2.66 billion, or
    $2.45 per share, in 2006 as compared with $1.98 billion, or
    $1.81 per share, in 2005, representing an increase in net income
    and earnings per share of 35 percent. Certain items,
    reflected in our operating results for 2006 and 2005, should be
    considered in comparing the two years. The significant items for
    2006 are summarized in the Executive Overview. The 2005 items
    are summarized as follows (see Notes 2, 4, and 13 to the
    consolidated financial statements for additional information):

We incurred a charge related to product liability litigation
    matters, primarily related to Zyprexa, of $1.07 billion
    (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.90 in the
    second quarter (Notes 4 and 13).

We recognized asset impairments and other special charges of
    $171.9 million (pretax) in the fourth quarter, which
    decreased earnings per share by $.14 (Note 4).

We adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
    Interpretation (FIN) 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset
    Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 143, in the fourth quarter. The adoption of FIN 47
    resulted in an adjustment for the cumulative effect of a change
    in accounting principle of $22.0 million (after-tax), which
    decreased earnings per share by $.02 (Note 2).

Sales  

Our worldwide sales for 2006 increased 7 percent, to
    $15.69 billion, driven primarily by sales growth of
    Cymbalta, Forteo, Byetta, Zyprexa, and Alimta. Worldwide sales
    volume increased 3 percent, and selling prices increased
    sales by 4 percent. Foreign exchange rates did not impact
    our overall sales growth. Sales in the U.S. increased
    10 percent, to $8.60 billion, driven primarily by
    increased sales of Cymbalta, diabetes care products, Forteo, and
    Zyprexa. U.S. growth comparisons benefited from an
    estimated $170 million of wholesaler destocking that had
    occurred in 2005 as a result of restructuring our arrangements
    with our U.S. wholesalers in the first quarter of 2005.
    Additionally, we experienced a sales benefit resulting from a
    shift of certain low-income patients from Medicaid to Medicare
    and increased access to medical coverage by certain patients
    previously covered under our
    LillyAnswers   
    program following the implementation of MMA in 2006. This
    contributed part of the increases in U.S. net effective
    sales prices of 9 percent. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 4 percent, to $7.09 billion,
    driven by growth of Cymbalta, Alimta, and Zyprexa.

Zyprexa sales in the U.S. increased 4 percent in 2006,
    driven by higher prices, offset in part by lower demand. The
    increase in net selling prices was partially due to the
    transition of certain low-income patients from Medicaid to
    Medicare. Sales outside the U.S. increased 4 percent,
    driven primarily by increased demand, offset in part by
    declining prices.

Diabetes care products had aggregate worldwide revenues of
    $2.96 billion in 2006, an increase of 6 percent.
    Diabetes care revenues in the U.S. increased
    8 percent, to $1.73 billion. Diabetes care revenues
    outside the U.S. increased 2 percent, to
    $1.23 billion. Results from our primary diabetes care
    products are as follows:

Humalog sales increased 10 percent in the U.S., due
    primarily to higher prices, and increased 7 percent outside
    the U.S., due primarily to increased volume, offset partially by
    lower prices.

Humulin sales in the U.S. decreased 10 percent due
    primarily to decreased volume, offset partially by increased
    selling prices. Outside the U.S., Humulin sales decreased
    6 percent due to decreases in demand and selling prices.

-25-

Actos revenues in the U.S. decreased 22 percent in
    2006, due to the expiration of our U.S. marketing rights in
    September 2006. Sales outside the U.S. increased
    23 percent, due primarily to increased volume in addition
    to a favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, offset in part
    by lower prices.

Total sales of Byetta, launched in the U.S. in June 2005,
    were $430.2 million for 2006.

Sales of Gemzar increased 4 percent in the U.S., due
    primarily to higher prices as well as the reductions in
    U.S. wholesaler inventory levels in 2005. Gemzar sales
    increased 7 percent outside the U.S., driven by strong
    volume.

Sales of Cymbalta increased 82 percent in the U.S., due to
    strong demand. Sales of Cymbalta outside the U.S. reflect
    international launches.

Sales of Evista increased 2 percent in the U.S. due to
    higher prices, offset partially by a decline in demand. Outside
    the U.S., sales of Evista decreased 1 percent, driven by
    lower prices, offset by an increase in demand.

The following table summarizes our net sales activity in 2006
    compared with 2005:

NM   Not meaningful

1   

U.S. sales include sales in Puerto
    Rico.

2   

Cialis had worldwide 2006 sales of
    $971.0 million, representing an increase of 30 percent
    compared with 2005. The sales shown in the table above represent
    results only in the territories in which we marketed Cialis
    exclusively. The remaining sales relate to the joint-venture
    territories of Lilly ICOS LLC (North America, excluding Puerto
    Rico, and Europe). Our share of the joint-venture territory
    sales, net of expenses and income taxes, is reported in other
    income   net in our consolidated statements of income.

Sales of Alimta increased 18 percent and 57 percent in
    the U.S. and outside the U.S., respectively, due primarily
    to increased demand.

Sales of Forteo increased 57 percent in the U.S. In
    addition to increased demand, U.S. sales significantly
    benefited from patients  access to medical coverage through
    the Medicare Part D program and from decreased utilization
    of our U.S. patient assistance program, LillyAnswers. Sales
    outside the U.S. increased 43 percent, reflecting
    strong demand.

-26-

Sales of Strattera increased 2 percent in the U.S. due
    to higher prices as well as the reductions in
    U.S. wholesaler inventory levels in 2005, offset by a
    decline in demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased
    31 percent due primarily to increased demand in addition to
    a modest favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, offset
    partially by lower prices.

Total product sales of Cialis increased 38 percent in the
    U.S. and 24 percent outside the U.S. Worldwide
    Cialis sales growth reflects the impact of market share gains,
    market growth, and price increases during 2006.

Animal health product sales in the U.S. increased
    10 percent, due primarily to increased demand led by
    Rumensin   
    and
    Tylan   .
    Sales outside the U.S. decreased 5 percent, driven
    primarily by the decrease in the sales of
    Surmax   
    as a result of the European Union s growth promotion use
    ban on the product, effective January 1, 2006.

Gross
    Margin, Costs, and Expenses  

The 2006 gross margin increased to 77.4 percent of
    sales compared with 76.3 percent for 2005. This increase
    was primarily due to increased product prices and increased
    production volume, partially offset by higher manufacturing
    expenses.

Operating expenses increased 7 percent in 2006. Investment
    in research and development increased 3 percent, to
    $3.13 billion, primarily due to increases in discovery
    research and clinical trial costs. We continued to be a leader
    in our industry peer group by investing approximately
    20 percent of our sales into research and development
    during 2006. Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses
    increased 9 percent in 2006, to $4.89 billion. This
    increase was largely attributable to increased marketing and
    selling expenses in support of key products, primarily Cymbalta
    and the diabetes care franchise, and an increase in
    litigation-related costs.

Other income   net decreased $76.4 million, to
    $237.8 million.

Interest expense for 2006 increased $132.9 million, to
    $238.1 million. This increase was a result of higher
    interest rates and less capitalized interest due to the
    completion in late 2005 of certain manufacturing facilities.

Interest income for 2006 increased $49.8 million, to
    $261.9 million, due to higher short-term interest rates.

The Lilly ICOS joint-venture income was $96.3 million in
    2006 as compared to $11.1 million in 2005. The increase was
    due to increased Cialis sales and decreased selling and
    marketing expenses.

Net other miscellaneous income items decreased
    $78.5 million, to $117.7 million, primarily as a
    result of less income related to the outlicensing of legacy
    products and partnered compounds in development.

We incurred tax expense of $755.3 million in 2006,
    resulting in an effective tax rate of 22.1 percent,
    compared with 26.3 percent for 2005. The effective tax
    rates for 2006 and 2005 were affected primarily by the product
    liability charges of $494.9 million and $1.07 billion,
    respectively. The tax benefit associated with these charges was
    less than our effective tax rate, as the tax benefit was
    calculated based upon existing tax laws in the countries in
    which we reasonably expect to deduct the charge. See
    Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for
    additional information.

FINANCIAL
    CONDITION  

As of December 31, 2007, cash, cash equivalents, and
    short-term investments totaled $4.83 billion compared with
    $3.89 billion at December 31, 2006. Cash flow from
    operations in 2007 of $5.15 billion and net proceeds from
    the issuance of long-term debt of $1.45 billion exceeded
    the total of the net cash paid for corporate acquisitions of
    $2.67 billion, dividends paid of $1.85 billion, and
    purchases of property and equipment of $1.08 billion.

Capital expenditures of $1.08 billion during 2007 were
    consistent with 2006, due primarily to the management of capital
    spending. We expect near-term capital expenditures to remain
    approximately the same as 2007 levels while we invest in our
    biotech and research and development initiatives, continue to
    upgrade our

-27-

manufacturing facilities to enhance productivity and quality
    systems, and invest in the long-term growth of our diabetes care
    products.

Total debt as of December 31, 2007 increased
    $1.29 billion, to $5.01 billion, reflecting the
    $2.50 billion of debt we issued in 2007 to finance our
    acquisition of ICOS, offset by long-term debt repayment of
    $1.06 billion. Our current debt ratings from
    Standard   Poor s and Moody s remain at AA
    and Aa3, respectively.

Dividends of $1.70 per share were paid in 2007, an increase of
    6 percent from 2006. In the fourth quarter of 2007,
    effective for the first-quarter dividend in 2008, the quarterly
    dividend was increased to $.47 per share (a 10.6 percent
    increase), resulting in an indicated annual rate for 2008 of
    $1.88 per share. The year 2007 was the 123rd consecutive
    year in which we made dividend payments and the
    40th consecutive year in which dividends have been
    increased.

We believe that cash generated from operations, along with
    available cash and cash equivalents, will be sufficient to fund
    our normal operating needs, including debt service, capital
    expenditures, costs associated with product liability
    litigation, dividends, and taxes in 2008. We believe that
    amounts accessible through existing commercial paper markets
    should be adequate to fund short-term borrowings, if necessary.
    We currently have $1.24 billion of unused committed bank
    credit facilities, $1.20 billion of which backs our
    commercial paper program. Our access to credit markets has not
    been adversely affected by the recent illiquidity in the market.
    Various risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in
    the Financial Expectations for 2008 section, may affect our
    operating results and cash generated from operations.

-28-

In the normal course of business, our operations are exposed to
    fluctuations in interest rates and currency values. These
    fluctuations can vary the costs of financing, investing, and
    operating. We address a portion of these risks through a
    controlled program of risk management that includes the use of
    derivative financial instruments. The objective of controlling
    these risks is to limit the impact on earnings of fluctuations
    in interest and currency exchange rates. All derivative
    activities are for purposes other than trading.

Our primary interest rate risk exposure results from changes in
    short-term U.S. dollar interest rates. In an effort to
    manage interest rate exposures, we strive to achieve an
    acceptable balance between fixed and floating rate debt
    positions and may enter into interest rate derivatives to help
    maintain that balance. Based on our overall interest rate
    exposure at December 31, 2007 and 2006, including derivatives
    and other interest rate risk-sensitive instruments, a
    hypothetical 10 percent change in interest rates applied to
    the fair value of the instruments as of December 31, 2007
    and 2006, respectively, would have no material impact on
    earnings, cash flows, or fair values of interest rate
    risk-sensitive instruments over a one-year period.

Our foreign currency risk exposure results from fluctuating
    currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against
    the euro and the Japanese yen, and the British pound against the
    euro. We face transactional currency exposures that arise when
    we enter into transactions, generally on an intercompany basis,
    denominated in currencies other than the local currency. We also
    face currency exposure that arises from translating the results
    of our global operations to the U.S. dollar at exchange
    rates that have fluctuated from the beginning of the period. We
    use forward contracts and purchased options to manage our
    foreign currency exposures. Our policy outlines the minimum and
    maximum hedge coverage of such exposures. Gains and losses on
    these derivative positions offset, in part, the impact of
    currency fluctuations on the existing assets, liabilities,
    commitments, and anticipated revenues. Considering our
    derivative financial instruments outstanding at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, a hypothetical 10 percent
    change in exchange rates (primarily against the
    U.S. dollar) as of December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, would have no material impact on earnings, cash
    flows, or fair values of foreign currency rate risk-sensitive
    instruments over a one-year period. These calculations do not
    reflect the impact of the exchange gains or losses on the
    underlying positions that would be offset, in part, by the
    results of the derivative instruments.

-29-

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations  

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have a material
    current effect or that are reasonably likely to have a material
    future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial
    condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations,
    liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. We
    acquire and partner assets still in development and enter into
    research and development arrangements with third parties that
    often require milestone and royalty payments to the third party
    contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked
    to the success of the asset in development. Milestone payments
    may be required contingent upon the successful achievement of an
    important point in the development life cycle of the
    pharmaceutical product (e.g., approval of the product for
    marketing by the appropriate regulatory agency or upon the
    achievement of certain sales levels). If required by the
    arrangement, we may have to make royalty payments based upon a
    percentage of the sales of the pharmaceutical product in the
    event that regulatory approval for marketing is obtained.
    Because of the contingent nature of these payments, they are not
    included in the table of contractual obligations.

Individually, these arrangements are not material in any one
    annual reporting period. However, if milestones for multiple
    products covered by these arrangements would happen to be
    reached in the same reporting period, the aggregate charge to
    expense could be material to the results of operations in any
    one period. The inherent risk in pharmaceutical development
    makes it unlikely that this will occur, as the failure rate for
    products in development is very high. In addition, these
    arrangements often give us the discretion to unilaterally
    terminate development of the product, which would allow us to
    avoid making the contingent payments; however, we are unlikely
    to cease development if the compound successfully achieves
    clinical testing objectives. We also note that, from a business
    perspective, we view these payments as positive because they
    signify that the product is successfully moving through
    development and is now generating or is more likely to generate
    cash flows from sales of products.

Our current noncancelable contractual obligations that will
    require future cash payments are as follows (in millions):

1   

Our long-term debt obligations
    include both our expected principal and interest obligations and
    our interest rate swaps. We used the interest rate forward curve
    at December 31, 2007 to compute the amount of the
    contractual obligation for interest on the variable rate debt
    instruments and swaps.

2   

We have included the following:

Purchase obligations, consisting primarily of all open purchase
    orders at our significant operating locations as of
    December 31, 2007. Some of these purchase orders may be
    cancelable; however, for purposes of this disclosure, we have
    not distinguished between cancelable and noncancelable purchase
    obligations.

Contractual payment obligations with each of our significant
    vendors, which are noncancelable and are not contingent.

3   

We have included our long-term
    liabilities consisting primarily of our nonqualified
    supplemental pension funding requirements and deferred
    compensation liabilities. Liabilities for unrecognized tax
    benefits of $1.57 billion are excluded as reasonable
    estimates could not be made regarding the timing of future cash
    outflows associated with those liabilities.

4   

This category comprises primarily
    minimum pension funding requirements.

-30-

The contractual obligations table is current as of
    December 31, 2007. The amount of these obligations can be
    expected to change materially over time as new contracts are
    initiated and existing contracts are completed, terminated, or
    modified.

APPLICATION
    OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

In preparing our financial statements in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we must often
    make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
    of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related
    disclosures. Some of those judgments can be subjective and
    complex, and consequently actual results could differ from those
    estimates. For any given individual estimate or assumption we
    make, it is possible that other people applying reasonable
    judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop
    different estimates. We believe that, given current facts and
    circumstances, it is unlikely that applying any such other
    reasonable judgment would cause a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated results of operations, financial position, or
    liquidity for the periods presented in this report. Our most
    critical accounting policies have been discussed with our audit
    committee and are described below.

Revenue
    Recognition and Sales Rebate and Discount Accruals  

We recognize revenue from sales of products at the time title of
    goods passes to the buyer and the buyer assumes the risks and
    rewards of ownership. For more than 90 percent of our
    sales, this is at the time products are shipped to the customer,
    typically a wholesale distributor or a major retail chain. The
    remaining sales are recorded at the point of delivery.
    Provisions for discounts and rebates are established in the same
    period the related sales are recorded.

We regularly review the supply levels of our significant
    products sold to major wholesalers in the U.S. and in major
    markets outside the U.S., primarily by reviewing periodic
    inventory reports supplied by our major wholesalers and
    available prescription volume information for our products, or
    alternative approaches. We attempt to maintain wholesaler
    inventory levels at an average of approximately one month or
    less on a consistent basis across our product portfolio. Causes
    of unusual wholesaler buying patterns include actual or
    anticipated product supply issues, weather patterns, anticipated
    changes in the transportation network, redundant holiday
    stocking, and changes in wholesaler business operations. An
    unusual buying pattern compared with underlying demand of our
    products outside the U.S. could also be the result of
    speculative buying by wholesalers in anticipation of price
    increases. When we believe wholesaler purchasing patterns have
    caused an unusual increase or decrease in the sales of a major
    product compared with underlying demand, we disclose this in our
    product sales discussion if the amount is believed to be
    material to the product sales trend; however, we are not always
    able to accurately quantify the amount of stocking or destocking.

As a result of restructuring our arrangements with our
    U.S. wholesalers in early 2005, reductions occurred in
    wholesaler inventory levels for certain products (primarily
    Strattera, Prozac, and Gemzar) that reduced our 2005 sales by
    approximately $170 million. The modified structure
    eliminates the incentive for speculative wholesaler buying and
    provides us improved data on inventory levels at our
    U.S. wholesalers. Wholesaler stocking and destocking
    activity historically has not caused any material changes in the
    rate of actual product returns, which have been approximately
    1 percent of our net sales over the past three years and
    have not fluctuated significantly as a percent of sales.

We establish sales rebate and discount accruals in the same
    period as the related sales. The rebate/discount amounts are
    recorded as a deduction to arrive at our net sales. Sales
    rebates/discounts that require the use of judgment in the
    establishment of the accrual include Medicaid, managed care,
    Medicare, chargebacks, long-term-care, hospital, patient
    assistance programs, and various other government programs. We
    base these accruals primarily upon our historical
    rebate/discount payments made to our customer segment groups and
    the provisions of current rebate/discount contracts.

The largest of our sales rebate/discount amounts are rebates
    associated with sales covered by Medicaid. In determining the
    appropriate accrual amount, we consider our historical Medicaid
    rebate payments by product as a percentage of our historical
    sales as well as any significant changes in sales trends, an
    evaluation of the current Medicaid rebate laws and
    interpretations, the percentage of our products that are sold to
    Medicaid

-31-

recipients, and our product pricing and current rebate/discount
    contracts. Although we accrue a liability for Medicaid rebates
    at the time we record the sale (when the product is shipped),
    the Medicaid rebate related to that sale is typically paid up to
    six months later. Due to the time lag, in any particular period
    our rebate adjustments may incorporate revisions of accruals for
    several periods.

Most of our rebates outside the U.S. are contractual or
    legislatively mandated and are estimated and recognized in the
    same period as the related sales. In some large European
    countries, government rebates are based on the anticipated
    pharmaceutical budget deficit in the country. A best estimate of
    these rebates, updated as governmental authorities revise
    budgeted deficits, is recognized in the same period as the
    related sale. If our estimates are not reflective of the actual
    pharmaceutical budget deficit, we adjust our rebate reserves.

We believe that our accruals for sales rebates and discounts are
    reasonable and appropriate based on current facts and
    circumstances. Federally mandated Medicaid rebate and state
    pharmaceutical assistance programs (Medicaid) and Medicare
    rebates reduced sales by $642.1 million,
    $571.7 million, and $637.1 million in 2007, 2006, and
    2005, respectively. A 5 percent change in the Medicaid and
    Medicare rebate amounts we recognized in 2007 would lead to an
    approximate $32 million effect on our income before income
    taxes. As of December 31, 2007, our Medicaid and Medicare
    rebate liability was $308.8 million.

Approximately 75 percent and 85 percent of our global
    rebate and discount liability resulted from sales of our
    products in the U.S. as of December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The following represents a roll-forward of our
    most significant U.S. rebate and discount liability
    balances, including Medicaid (in millions):

1   

Adjustments of the estimates for
    these rebates and discounts to actual results were less than
    0.3 percent of net sales for each of the years presented.

Product
    Litigation Liabilities and Other Contingencies  

Product litigation liabilities and other contingencies are, by
    their nature, uncertain and are based upon complex judgments and
    probabilities. The factors we consider in developing our product
    litigation liability reserves and other contingent liability
    amounts include the merits and jurisdiction of the litigation,
    the nature and the number of other similar current and past
    litigation cases, the nature of the product and the current
    assessment of the science subject to the litigation, and the
    likelihood of settlement and current state of settlement
    discussions, if any. In addition, we accrue for certain product
    liability claims incurred, but not filed, to the extent we can
    formulate a reasonable estimate of their costs. We estimate
    these expenses based primarily on historical claims experience
    and data regarding product usage. We accrue legal defense costs
    expected to be incurred in connection with significant product
    liability contingencies when probable and reasonably estimable.

We also consider the insurance coverage we have to diminish the
    exposure for periods covered by insurance. In assessing our
    insurance coverage, we consider the policy coverage limits and
    exclusions, the potential for denial of coverage by the
    insurance company, the financial position of the insurers, and
    the possibility of and the length of time for collection.

The litigation accruals and environmental liabilities and the
    related estimated insurance recoverables have been reflected on
    a gross basis as liabilities and assets, respectively, on our
    consolidated balance sheets.

We believe that the accruals and related insurance recoveries we
    have established for product litigation liabilities and other
    contingencies are appropriate based on current facts and
    circumstances.

-32-

Pension
    and Retiree Medical Plan Assumptions  

Pension benefit costs include assumptions for the discount rate,
    retirement age, and expected return on plan assets. Retiree
    medical plan costs include assumptions for the discount rate,
    retirement age, expected return on plan assets, and
    health-care-cost trend rates. These assumptions have a
    significant effect on the amounts reported. In addition to the
    analysis below, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial
    statements for additional information regarding our retirement
    benefits.

Periodically, we evaluate the discount rate and the expected
    return on plan assets in our defined benefit pension and retiree
    health benefit plans. In evaluating these assumptions, we
    consider many factors, including an evaluation of the discount
    rates, expected return on plan assets and the health-care-cost
    trend rates of other companies; our historical assumptions
    compared with actual results; an analysis of current market
    conditions and asset allocations (approximately 85 percent
    to 95 percent of which are growth investments); and the
    views of leading financial advisers and economists. We use an
    actuarially determined, company-specific yield curve to
    determine the discount rate. In evaluating our expected
    retirement age assumption, we consider the retirement ages of
    our past employees eligible for pension and medical benefits
    together with our expectations of future retirement ages.

We believe our pension and retiree medical plan assumptions are
    appropriate based upon the above factors. If the
    health-care-cost trend rates were to be increased by one
    percentage point each future year, the aggregate of the service
    cost and interest cost components of the 2007 annual expense
    would increase by approximately $28 million. A
    one-percentage-point decrease would lower the aggregate of the
    2007 service cost and interest cost by approximately
    $23 million. If the 2007 discount rate for the
    U.S. defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit
    plans (U.S. plans) were to be changed by a quarter
    percentage point, income before income taxes would change by
    approximately $32 million. If the 2007 expected return on
    plan assets for U.S. plans were to be changed by a quarter
    percentage point, income before income taxes would change by
    approximately $14 million. If our assumption regarding the
    2007 expected age of future retirees for U.S. plans were
    adjusted by one year, our income before income taxes would be
    affected by approximately $31 million. The U.S. plans
    represent approximately 80 percent of the total accumulated
    postretirement benefit obligation and approximately
    83 percent of total plan assets at December 31, 2007.

Impairment
    of Long-lived Assets  

We review the carrying value of long-lived assets for potential
    impairment on a periodic basis and whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be
    recoverable. Impairment is determined by comparing projected
    undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset to its
    carrying value. If an impairment is identified, a loss is
    recorded equal to the excess of the asset s net book value
    over its fair value, and the cost basis is adjusted. The
    estimated future cash flows, based on reasonable and supportable
    assumptions and projections, require management s judgment.
    Actual results could vary from these estimates.

Income
    Taxes  

We prepare and file tax returns based on our interpretation of
    tax laws and regulations and record estimates based on these
    judgments and interpretations. In the normal course of business,
    our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing
    authorities, which may result in future tax, interest, and
    penalty assessments by these authorities. Inherent uncertainties
    exist in estimates of many tax positions due to changes in tax
    law resulting from legislation, regulation
     and/or  as
    concluded through the various jurisdictions  tax court
    systems. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax
    position only if it is more likely than not that the tax
    position will be sustained on examination by the taxing
    authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The
    tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a
    position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a
    greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon
    ultimate resolution. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits is
    adjusted for changes in facts and circumstances. For example,
    adjustments could result from significant amendments to existing
    tax law and the issuance of regulations or interpretations by
    the taxing authorities, new information obtained during a tax
    examination, or resolution of

-33-

an examination. We believe that our estimates for uncertain tax
    positions are appropriate and sufficient to pay assessments that
    may result from examinations of our tax returns. We recognize
    both accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax
    benefits in income tax expense.

We have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our
    deferred tax assets, primarily those that have been generated
    from net operating losses in certain taxing jurisdictions. In
    evaluating whether we would more likely than not recover these
    deferred tax assets, we have not assumed any future taxable
    income or tax planning strategies in the jurisdictions
    associated with these carryforwards where history does not
    support such an assumption. Implementation of tax planning
    strategies to recover these deferred tax assets or future income
    generation in these jurisdictions could lead to the reversal of
    these valuation allowances and a reduction of income tax expense.

We believe that our estimates for the uncertain tax positions
    and valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets are
    appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. A
    5 percent change in the amount of the uncertain tax
    positions and the valuation allowance would result in a change
    in net income of approximately $78 million and
    $26 million, respectively.

FINANCIAL
    EXPECTATIONS FOR 2008  

For the full year of 2008, we expect earnings per share to be in
    the range of $3.80 to $3.95. This guidance includes the
    anticipated acquired in-process research and development charges
    of $.05 related to the BioMS in-licensing agreement. We expect
    sales to grow in the mid-to high-single digits, driven primarily
    by increased volume and strong sales growth for Cymbalta,
    Cialis, Byetta, Alimta, and Humalog. We expect modest
    improvement in gross margin as a percent of net sales, driven
    primarily by manufacturing expenses growing more slowly than
    sales. In addition, we expect operating expenses to grow more
    slowly than sales in 2008, with growth in the mid-single digits.
    Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses are expected to
    grow in the low-single digits, driven by investments in
    prasugrel, Cymbalta, Evista for invasive breast cancer risk
    reduction, Humalog, and Byetta, offset by decreases in other
    areas. Research and development expenses are expected to grow in
    the high-single to low-double digits. Other income  
    net is expected to contribute less than $100 million. The
    effective tax rate is expected to be approximately
    23 percent. We expect capital expenditures of approximately
    $1.1 billion.

Actual results could differ materially and will depend on, among
    other things, the continuing growth of our currently marketed
    products; developments with competitive products; the timing and
    scope of regulatory approvals and the success of our new product
    launches; asset impairments, restructurings, and acquisitions of
    compounds under development resulting in acquired in-process
    research and development charges; foreign exchange rates;
    changes in effective tax rates; wholesaler inventory changes;
    other regulatory developments, litigation, and government
    investigations; and the impact of governmental actions regarding
    pricing, importation, and reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. We
    undertake no duty to update these forward-looking statements.

LEGAL AND
    REGULATORY MATTERS  

We are a party to various legal actions and government
    investigations. The most significant of these are described
    below. While it is not possible to determine the outcome of
    these matters, we believe that, except as specifically noted
    below, the resolution of all such matters will not have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position
    or liquidity, but could possibly be material to our consolidated
    results of operations in any one accounting period.

Patent
    Litigation  

We are engaged in the following patent litigation matters
    brought pursuant to procedures set out in the Hatch-Waxman Act
    (the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of
    1984):

Barr Laboratories, Inc. (Barr), submitted an Abbreviated New
    Drug Application (ANDA) in 2002 seeking permission to market a
    generic version of Evista prior to the expiration of our
    relevant U.S. patents (expiring

-34-

in
     2012-2017) 
    and alleging that these patents are invalid, not enforceable, or
    not infringed. In November 2002, we filed a lawsuit against Barr
    in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
    Indiana, seeking a ruling that these patents are valid,
    enforceable, and being infringed by Barr. Teva has also
    submitted an ANDA seeking permission to market a generic version
    of Evista. In June 2006, we filed a similar lawsuit against Teva
    in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
    Indiana. The lawsuit against Teva is currently scheduled for
    trial beginning March 9, 2009, while no trial date has been
    set in the lawsuit against Barr. We believe that Barr s and
    Teva s claims are without merit and we expect to prevail.
    However, it is not possible to determine the outcome of this
    litigation, and accordingly, we can provide no assurance that we
    will prevail. An unfavorable outcome could have a material
    adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations,
    liquidity, and financial position.

Sicor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Sicor), Mayne Pharma (USA) Inc.
    (Mayne), and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Inc. (Sun) each
    submitted ANDAs seeking permission to market generic versions of
    Gemzar prior to the expiration of our relevant U.S. patents
    (compound patent expiring in 2010 and method-of-use patent
    expiring in 2013), and alleging that these patents are invalid.
    We filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the
    Southern District of Indiana against Sicor (February 2006) and
    Mayne (October 2006), seeking rulings that these patents are
    valid and are being infringed. In November 2007, the lawsuit
    against Mayne was stayed and administratively closed by the
    court. Also in November 2007, Sun filed a declaratory judgment
    action in the United States District Court for the Eastern
    District of Michigan, seeking a ruling that our method-of-use
    patent is invalid or unenforceable, or would not be infringed by
    the sale of Sun s generic product. Sun informed us in
    December 2007 that it is also challenging our compound patent,
    and that patent has now been added to the declaratory judgment
    action. In January 2008, we filed a second lawsuit against Mayne
    in response to a second ANDA filed by Mayne for a new dosage
    strength. We expect to prevail in this litigation and believe
    that these claims are without merit. However, it is not possible
    to determine the outcome of this litigation, and accordingly, we
    can provide no assurance that we will prevail. An unfavorable
    outcome could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated
    results of operations, liquidity, and financial position.

Actavis Elizabeth LLC (Actavis), Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
    USA (Glenmark), Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited (Sun),
    Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz), Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Mylan), Teva
    Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva), Apotex Inc. (Apotex),
    Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. (Aurobindo), Synthon Laboratories, Inc.
    (Synthon), and Zydus Pharmaceuticals, USA, Inc. (Zydus) each
    submitted an ANDA seeking permission to market generic versions
    of Strattera prior to the expiration of our relevant
    U.S. patent (expiring in 2017), and alleging that this
    patent is invalid. We filed a lawsuit against Actavis in the
    United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in
    August 2007. Sandoz filed a declaratory judgment action in the
    same court, but its case has been dismissed. In September 2007,
    we amended the complaint in the New Jersey lawsuit to add
    Glenmark, Sun, Sandoz, Mylan, Teva, Apotex, Aurobindo, Synthon,
    and Zydus as defendants. We filed a second action against
    Synthon in the United States District Court for the Eastern
    District of Virginia. Synthon has filed a motion to dismiss our
    lawsuit in New Jersey. In December 2007, Zydus agreed to entry
    of a consent judgment in which Zydus conceded the validity and
    enforceability of the patent and agreed to a permanent
    injunction. We expect to prevail in this litigation and believe
    that these claims are without merit. However, it is not possible
    to determine the outcome of this litigation, and accordingly, we
    can provide no assurance that we will prevail. An unfavorable
    outcome could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated
    results of operations, liquidity, and financial position.

We have received challenges to Zyprexa patents in a number of
    countries outside the U.S.:

In Canada, several generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have
    challenged the validity of our Zyprexa compound and
    method-of-use patent (expiring in 2011). In April 2007, the
    Canadian Federal Court ruled against the first challenger,
    Apotex Inc. (Apotex), and Apotex has appealed that ruling. In
    June 2007, the Canadian Federal Court held that the invalidity
    allegations of a second challenger, Novopharm Ltd. (Novopharm),
    were justified and denied our request that Novopharm be
    prohibited from receiving marketing approval for generic
    olanzapine in Canada. Novopharm began selling generic olanzapine
    in Canada in the third quarter of 2007. We have appealed that
    decision and sued Novopharm for patent infringement. The appeal
    was dismissed. In November 2007, Apotex filed an action seeking
    a declaration of the invalidity of

-35-

our Zyprexa compound and method-of-use patents (expiring in
    2011). The trial court ruled in our favor in February 2007.
    Apotex will likely appeal.

In Germany, generic pharmaceutical manufacturers
    Egis-Gyogyszergyar and Neolabs Ltd. challenged the validity of
    our Zyprexa compound and method-of-use patents (expiring in
    2011). In June 2007, the German Federal Patent Court held that
    our patent is invalid. We are appealing the decision. Generic
    olanzapine was launched by competitors in Germany in the fourth
    quarter of 2007.

We have received challenges in a number of other countries,
    including Spain, the United Kingdom (U.K.), and several smaller
    European countries. In Spain, we have been successful at both
    the trial and appellate court levels in defeating the generic
    manufacturers  challenge, but we anticipate further legal
    challenges from generic manufacturers. In the U.K., a trial date
    has tentatively been set for July 2008.

We are vigorously contesting the various legal challenges to our
    Zyprexa patents on a country-by-country basis. We cannot
    determine the outcome of this litigation. The availability of
    generic olanzapine in Canada and Germany will have a material
    adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. The
    availability of generic olanzapine in additional markets could
    have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of
    operations.

In June 2002, Ariad Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the Massachusetts
    Institute of Technology, the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical
    Research, and the President and Fellows of Harvard College in
    the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts
    sued us, alleging that sales of two of our products,
    Xigris   
    and Evista, were inducing the infringement of a patent related
    to the discovery of a natural cell signaling phenomenon in the
    human body, and seeking royalties on past and future sales of
    these products. On May 4, 2006, a jury in Boston issued an
    initial decision in the case that Xigris and Evista sales
    infringe the patent. The jury awarded the plaintiffs
    approximately $65 million in damages, calculated by
    applying a 2.3 percent royalty to all U.S. sales of
    Xigris and Evista from the date of issuance of the patent
    through the date of trial. In addition, a separate bench trial
    with the U.S. District Court of Massachusetts was held in
    August 2006, on our contention that the patent is unenforceable
    and impermissibly covers natural processes. In June 2005, the
    United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) commenced a
    reexamination of the patent, and in August 2007 took the
    position that the Ariad claims at issue are unpatentable, a
    position that Ariad continues to contest. In September 2007, the
    Court entered a final judgment indicating that Ariad s
    claims are patentable, valid, and enforceable, and finding
    damages in the amount of $65 million plus a
    2.3 percent royalty on net U.S. sales of Xigris and
    Evista since the time of the jury decision. However, the Court
    deferred the requirement to pay any damages until after all
    rights to appeal have been exhausted. We plan to appeal this
    judgment. We believe that these allegations are without legal
    merit, that we will ultimately prevail on these issues, and
    therefore that the likelihood of any monetary damages is remote.

Government
    Investigations and Related Litigation  

In March 2004, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the
    Eastern District of Pennsylvania (EDPA) advised us that it had
    commenced an investigation related to our U.S. marketing
    and promotional practices, including our communications with
    physicians and remuneration of physician consultants and
    advisors, with respect to Zyprexa, Prozac, and Prozac Weekly. In
    November 2007, we received a grand jury subpoena from the EDPA
    for a broad range of documents related to Zyprexa. A number of
    State Medicaid Fraud Control Units are coordinating with the
    EDPA in its investigation of any Medicaid-related claims
    relating to our marketing and promotion of Zyprexa. In October
    2005, the EDPA advised that it is also conducting an inquiry
    regarding certain rebate agreements we entered into with a
    pharmacy benefit manager covering
    Axid   ,
    Evista, Humalog, Humulin, Prozac, and Zyprexa. The inquiry
    includes a review of our Medicaid best price reporting related
    to the product sales covered by the rebate agreements.

In June 2005, we received a subpoena from the Office of the
    Attorney General, Medicaid Fraud Control Unit, of the State of
    Florida, seeking production of documents relating to sales of
    Zyprexa and our marketing and promotional practices with respect
    to Zyprexa.

-36-

In September 2006, we received a subpoena from the California
    Attorney General s Office seeking production of documents
    related to our efforts to obtain and maintain Zyprexa s
    status on California s formulary, marketing and promotional
    practices with respect to Zyprexa, and remuneration of health
    care providers.

In February 2007, we received a subpoena from the Office of the
    Attorney General of the State of Illinois, seeking production of
    documents and information relating to sales of Zyprexa and our
    marketing and promotional practices, including our
    communications with physicians and remuneration of physician
    consultants and advisors, with respect to Zyprexa.

Beginning in August 2006, we have received civil investigative
    demands or subpoenas from the attorneys general of a number of
    states under various state consumer protection laws. Most of
    these requests are now part of a multistate investigative effort
    being coordinated by an executive committee of attorneys
    general. We are aware that approximately 30 states are
    participating in this joint effort, and it is possible that
    additional states will join the investigation. These attorneys
    general are seeking a broad range of Zyprexa documents,
    including documents relating to sales, marketing and promotional
    practices, and remuneration of health care providers. In
    addition, we have been named as a defendant in a private suit in
    California State Court, which was removed to federal court,
    alleging violations of the California False Claims Act with
    respect to certain Zyprexa marketing and promotional practices.
    This suit was brought by an individual on behalf of the
    government, under the qui tam provision of the California False
    Claims Act.

We are cooperating in each of these investigations, including
    providing a broad range of documents and information relating to
    the investigations. It is possible that other Lilly products
    could become subject to investigation and that the outcome of
    these matters could include criminal charges and fines,
    penalties, or other monetary or nonmonetary remedies. We cannot
    determine the outcome of these matters or reasonably estimate
    the amount or range of amounts of any fines or penalties that
    might result from an adverse outcome. It is possible, however,
    that an adverse outcome could have a material adverse impact on
    our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, and financial
    position. We have implemented and continue to review and enhance
    a broadly based compliance program that includes comprehensive
    compliance-related activities designed to ensure that our
    marketing and promotional practices, physician communications,
    remuneration of health care professionals, managed care
    arrangements, and Medicaid best price reporting comply with
    applicable laws and regulations.

Product
    Liability and Related Litigation  

We have been named as a defendant in a large number of Zyprexa
    product liability lawsuits in the United States and have been
    notified of many other claims of individuals who have not filed
    suit. The lawsuits and unfiled claims (together the
     claims ) allege a variety of injuries from the use of
    Zyprexa, with the majority alleging that the product caused or
    contributed to diabetes or high blood-glucose levels. The claims
    seek substantial compensatory and punitive damages and typically
    accuse us of inadequately testing for and warning about side
    effects of Zyprexa. Many of the claims also allege that we
    improperly promoted the drug. Almost all of the federal lawsuits
    are part of a Multi-District Litigation (MDL) proceeding
    before The Honorable Jack Weinstein in the Federal District
    Court for the Eastern District of New York (MDL No. 1596).

Since June 2005, we have entered into agreements with various
    claimants  attorneys involved in U.S. Zyprexa product
    liability litigation to settle a substantial majority of the
    claims. The agreements cover a total of approximately 31,200
    claimants, including a large number of previously filed lawsuits
    and other asserted claims. The two primary settlements were as
    follows:

The 2005 settlement totaling $700.0 million was paid during
    2005. The January 2007 settlements were paid during 2007.

-37-

We are prepared to continue our vigorous defense of Zyprexa in
    all remaining claims. The U.S. Zyprexa product liability
    claims not subject to these agreements include approximately 325
    lawsuits in the U.S. covering approximately 1,235
    plaintiffs. Trial dates have been set for June 23, 2008, in
    the Eastern District of New York, for several of the
    U.S. plaintiffs.

In early 2005, we were served with four lawsuits seeking class
    action status in Canada on behalf of patients who took Zyprexa.
    One of these four lawsuits has been certified for residents of
    Quebec, and a second has been certified in Ontario and includes
    all Canadian residents, except for residents of Quebec and
    British Columbia. The allegations in the Canadian actions are
    similar to those in the litigation pending in the U.S.

We have insurance coverage for a portion of our Zyprexa product
    liability claims exposure. The third-party insurance carriers
    have raised defenses to their liability under the policies and
    are seeking to rescind the policies. The dispute was the subject
    of litigation in the federal court in Indianapolis against
    certain of the carriers and in arbitration in Bermuda against
    other carriers. In the second half of 2007, we reached
    settlements resolving the vast majority of the disputed
    insurance claims, and a portion of the insurance proceeds were
    paid to us prior to the end of 2007.

Since the beginning of 2005, we have recorded aggregate net
    pretax charges of $1.61 billion for Zyprexa product
    liability matters. The net charges, which take into account our
    actual and expected insurance recoveries, covered the following:

The cost of the Zyprexa product liability settlements to
    date; and

Reserves for product liability exposures and defense costs
    regarding the known Zyprexa product liability claims and
    expected future claims to the extent we could formulate a
    reasonable estimate of the probable number and cost of the
    claims.

In December 2004, we were served with two lawsuits brought in
    state court in Louisiana on behalf of the Louisiana Department
    of Health and Hospitals, alleging that Zyprexa caused or
    contributed to diabetes or high blood-glucose levels, and that
    we improperly promoted the drug. These cases have been removed
    to federal court and are now part of the MDL proceedings in the
    Eastern District of New York. In these actions, the Department
    of Health and Hospitals seeks to recover the costs it paid for
    Zyprexa through Medicaid and other drug-benefit programs, as
    well as the costs the department alleges it has incurred and
    will incur to treat Zyprexa-related illnesses. We have been
    served with similar lawsuits filed by the states of Alaska,
    Mississippi, Montana, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, South Carolina,
    Utah, and West Virginia in the courts of the respective states.
    The Mississippi, Montana, New Mexico, and West Virginia cases
    have been removed to federal court and are now part of the MDL
    proceedings in the Eastern District of New York. The Alaska case
    is scheduled for trial beginning March 3, 2008.

In 2005, two lawsuits were filed in the Eastern District of New
    York purporting to be nationwide class actions on behalf of all
    consumers and third-party payors, excluding governmental
    entities, which have made or will make payments for their
    members or insured patients being prescribed Zyprexa. These
    actions have now been consolidated into a single lawsuit, which
    is brought under certain state consumer protection statutes, the
    federal civil RICO statute, and common law theories, seeking a
    refund of the cost of Zyprexa, treble damages, punitive damages,
    and attorneys  fees. Two additional lawsuits were filed in
    the Eastern District of New York in 2006 on similar grounds. In
    2007, The Pennsylvania Employees Trust Fund brought claims
    in state court in Pennsylvania as insurer of Pennsylvania state
    employees, who were prescribed Zyprexa on similar grounds as
    described in the New York cases. As with the product liability
    suits, these lawsuits allege that we inadequately tested for and
    warned about side effects of Zyprexa and improperly promoted the
    drug.

We cannot determine with certainty the additional number of
    lawsuits and claims that may be asserted. The ultimate
    resolution of Zyprexa product liability and related litigation
    could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results
    of operations, liquidity, and financial position.

In addition, we have been named as a defendant in numerous other
    product liability lawsuits involving primarily
    diethylstilbestrol (DES) and thimerosal. The majority of these
    claims are covered by insurance, subject to deductibles and
    coverage limits.

-38-

Because of the nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible
    that we could become subject to large numbers of product
    liability and related claims for other products in the future.
    In the past few years, we have experienced difficulties in
    obtaining product liability insurance due to a very restrictive
    insurance market. Therefore, for substantially all of our
    currently marketed products, we have been and expect that we
    will continue to be largely self-insured for future product
    liability losses. In addition, as noted above, there is no
    assurance that we will be able to fully collect from our
    insurance carriers on past claims.

PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995  
    A CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we caution investors that any
    forward-looking statements or projections made by us, including
    those made in this document, are based on management s
    expectations at the time they are made, but they are subject to
    risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ
    materially from those projected. Economic, competitive,
    governmental, technological, legal, and other factors that may
    affect our operations and prospects are discussed earlier in
    this section and our most recent report on
     Forms 10-Q 
    and  10-K 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake
    no duty to update forward-looking statements.

Item 7A.    

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

You can find quantitative and qualitative disclosures about
    market risk ( e.g.,  interest rate risk) in Part II,
    Item 7 at  Review of Operations   Financial
    Condition.  That information is incorporated in this report
    by reference.

-39-

Item 8.    

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data

Consolidated
    Statements of Income  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

-40-

Consolidated
    Balance Sheets  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

-41-

Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

-42-

Consolidated
    Statements of Comprehensive Income  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

-43-

Segment
    Information  

We operate in one significant business segment  
    pharmaceutical products. Operations of the animal health
    business segment are not material and share many of the same
    economic and operating characteristics as pharmaceutical
    products. Therefore, they are included with pharmaceutical
    products for purposes of segment reporting.

1  

Net sales are attributed to the countries based on the location
    of the customer. 

2  

Cialis sales for 2007 are included in Cardiovascular, and 2006
    and 2005 Cialis sales have been reclassified from other
    pharmaceuticals to be consistent with the 2007 presentation. 

The largest category of products is the neurosciences group,
    which includes Zyprexa, Cymbalta, Strattera, and Prozac.
    Endocrinology products consist primarily Humalog, Humulin,
    Actos, Byetta, Evista, Forteo, and Humatrope. Oncology products
    consist primarily of Gemzar and Alimta. Cardiovascular products
    consist primarily of Cialis,
    ReoPro R ,
    and Xigris. Animal health products include
    Tylan   ,
    Rumensin   ,
    Coban   ,
    and other products for livestock and poultry. The other
    pharmaceuticals category includes anti-infectives, primarily
    Ceclor   
    and
    Vancocin   ,
    and other miscellaneous pharmaceutical products and services.

Most of our pharmaceutical products are distributed through
    wholesalers that serve pharmacies, physicians and other health
    care professionals, and hospitals. In 2007, our three largest
    wholesalers each accounted for between 12 percent and
    16 percent of consolidated net sales. Further, they each
    accounted for between 9 percent and 13 percent of
    accounts receivable as of December 31, 2007. Animal health
    products are sold primarily to wholesale distributors.

Our business segments are distinguished by the ultimate end user
    of the product: humans or animals. Performance is evaluated
    based on profit or loss from operations before income taxes. The
    accounting policies of the individual segments are substantially
    the same as those described in the summary of significant
    accounting policies in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements. Income before income taxes for the

-44-

animal health business was approximately $173 million,
    $184 million, and $215 million in 2007, 2006, and
    2005, respectively.

The assets of the animal health business are intermixed with
    those of the pharmaceutical products business. Long-lived assets
    disclosed above consist of property and equipment and certain
    sundry assets.

We are exposed to the risk of changes in social, political, and
    economic conditions inherent in foreign operations, and our
    results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are
    affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

-45-

Selected
    Quarterly Data (unaudited)  

Our common stock is listed on the New York, London, and Swiss
    stock exchanges.

-46-

Selected
    Financial Data (unaudited)  

1  

Reflects the impact of a cumulative effect of a change in
    accounting principle in 2005 of $22.0 million, net of
    income taxes of $11.8 million. The diluted earnings per
    share impact of this cumulative effect of a change in accounting
    principle was $.02. The net income per diluted share before the
    cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle was $1.83.
    See Note 2 for additional information. 

2  

Reflects the ICOS acquisition, effective January 29, 2007.
    See Note 3 for additional information. 

-47-

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements  

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY AND
    SUBSIDIARIES 
    (Dollars in millions, except per-share data)

Note 1:    

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies  

Basis of presentation:  The accompanying consolidated
    financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
    accounting practices generally accepted in the United States
    (GAAP). The accounts of all wholly owned and majority-owned
    subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial
    statements. Where our ownership of consolidated subsidiaries is
    less than 100 percent, the outside shareholders 
    interests are reflected in other noncurrent liabilities. All
    intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP
    requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
    affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues,
    expenses, and related disclosures at the date of the financial
    statements and during the reporting period. Actual results could
    differ from those estimates.

All per-share amounts, unless otherwise noted in the footnotes,
    are presented on a diluted basis, that is, based on the
    weighted-average number of outstanding common shares plus the
    effect of dilutive stock options and other incremental shares.

Cash equivalents:  We consider all highly liquid
    investments, with a maturity of three months or less, to be cash
    equivalents. The cost of these investments approximates fair
    value. If items meeting this definition are part of a larger
    investment pool, they are classified consistent with the
    classification of the pool.

Inventories:  We state all inventories at the lower of
    cost or market. We use the
     last-in, 
    first-out (LIFO) method for substantially all our inventories
    located in the continental United States, or approximately
    39 percent of our total inventories. Other inventories are
    valued by the
     first-in, 
    first-out (FIFO) method. FIFO cost approximates current
    replacement cost. Inventories at December 31 consisted of the
    following:

Investments:  Substantially all debt and marketable equity
    securities are classified as
     available-for-sale. 
     Available-for-sale 
    securities are carried at fair value with the unrealized gains
    and losses, net of tax, reported in other comprehensive income.
    Unrealized losses considered to be
     other-than-temporary 
    are recognized in earnings. Factors we consider in making this
    evaluation include company-specific drivers of the decrease in
    stock price, status of projects in development, near-term
    prospects of the issuer, the length of time the value has been
    depressed, and the financial condition of the industry. We do
    not evaluate cost-method investments for impairment unless there
    is an indicator of impairment. We review these investments for
    indicators of impairment on a regular basis. Realized gains and
    losses on sales of
     available-for-sale 
    securities are computed based upon specific identification of
    the initial cost adjusted for any
     other-than-temporary 
    declines in fair value. Investments in companies over which we
    have significant influence but not a controlling interest are
    accounted for using the equity method with our share of earnings
    or losses reported in other income   net. We own no
    investments that are considered to be trading securities.

Risk-management instruments:  Our derivative activities
    are initiated within the guidelines of documented corporate
    risk-management policies and do not create additional risk
    because gains and losses on derivative contracts offset losses
    and gains on the assets, liabilities, and transactions being
    hedged. As derivative

-48-

contracts are initiated, we designate the instruments
    individually as either a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge.
    Management reviews the correlation and effectiveness of our
    derivatives on a quarterly basis.

For derivative contracts that are designated and qualify as fair
    value hedges, the derivative instrument is marked to market with
    gains and losses recognized currently in income to offset the
    respective losses and gains recognized on the underlying
    exposure. For derivative contracts that are designated and
    qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of gains and
    losses on these contracts is reported as a component of other
    comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in the same
    period the hedged transaction affects earnings. Hedge
    ineffectiveness is immediately recognized in earnings.
    Derivative contracts that are not designated as hedging
    instruments are recorded at fair value with the gain or loss
    recognized in current earnings during the period of change.

We enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to
    reduce the effect of fluctuating currency exchange rates
    (principally the euro, the British pound, and the Japanese yen).
    Foreign currency derivatives used for hedging are put in place
    using the same or like currencies and duration as the underlying
    exposures. Forward contracts are principally used to manage
    exposures arising from subsidiary trade and loan payables and
    receivables denominated in foreign currencies. These contracts
    are recorded at fair value with the gain or loss recognized in
    other income. The purchased option contracts are used to hedge
    anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily
    intercompany inventory activities expected to occur within the
    next year. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges of
    those future transactions and the impact on earnings is included
    in cost of sales. We may enter into foreign currency forward
    contracts and currency swaps as fair value hedges of firm
    commitments. Forward and option contracts generally have
    maturities not exceeding 12 months.

In the normal course of business, our operations are exposed to
    fluctuations in interest rates. These fluctuations can vary the
    costs of financing, investing, and operating. We address a
    portion of these risks through a controlled program of risk
    management that includes the use of derivative financial
    instruments. The objective of controlling these risks is to
    limit the impact of fluctuations in interest rates on earnings.
    Our primary interest rate risk exposure results from changes in
    short-term U.S. dollar interest rates. In an effort to
    manage interest rate exposures, we strive to achieve an
    acceptable balance between fixed and floating rate debt and
    investment positions and may enter into interest rate swaps or
    collars to help maintain that balance. Interest rate swaps or
    collars that convert our fixed-rate debt or investments to a
    floating rate are designated as fair value hedges of the
    underlying instruments. Interest rate swaps or collars that
    convert floating rate debt or investments to a fixed rate are
    designated as cash flow hedges. Interest expense on the debt is
    adjusted to include the payments made or received under the swap
    agreements.

Goodwill and other intangibles:  Goodwill is not
    amortized. All other intangibles arising from acquisitions and
    research alliances have finite lives and are amortized over
    their estimated useful lives, ranging from 5 to 20 years,
    using the straight-line method. The weighted-average
    amortization period for developed product technology is
    approximately 10 years. Amortization expense for 2007,
    2006, and 2005 was $172.8 million, $7.6 million, and
    $5.4 million before tax, respectively. The estimated
    amortization expense for the five succeeding years approximates
    $180 million before tax, per year. Substantially all of the
    amortization expense is included in cost of sales. See
    Note 3 for further discussion of goodwill and other
    intangibles acquired in 2007.

-49-

Goodwill and other intangible assets at December 31 were as
    follows:

Goodwill and net other intangibles are reviewed to assess
    recoverability at least annually and when certain impairment
    indicators are present. No material impairments occurred with
    respect to the carrying value of our goodwill or other
    intangible assets in 2007, 2006, or 2005.

Property and equipment:  Property and equipment is stated
    on the basis of cost. Provisions for depreciation of buildings
    and equipment are computed generally by the straight-line method
    at rates based on their estimated useful lives (12 to
    50 years for buildings and 3 to 18 years for
    equipment). We review the carrying value of long-lived  assets
    for potential impairment on a periodic basis and whenever events
    or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an
    asset may not be recoverable. Impairment is determined by
    comparing projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by
    the asset to its carrying value. If an impairment is identified,
    a loss is recorded equal to the excess of the asset s net
    book value over its fair value, and the cost basis is adjusted.

At December 31, property and equipment consisted of the
    following:

Depreciation expense for 2007, 2006, and 2005 was
    $682.3 million, $627.4 million, and
    $577.2 million, respectively. Approximately
    $95.3 million, $106.7 million, and $140.5 million
    of interest costs were capitalized as part of property and
    equipment in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Total rental
    expense for all leases, including contingent rentals (not
    material), amounted to approximately $294.2 million,
    $293.6 million, and $294.4 million for 2007, 2006, and
    2005, respectively. Assets under capital leases included in
    property and equipment in the consolidated balance sheets,
    capital lease obligations entered into, and future minimum
    rental commitments are not material.

Litigation and environmental liabilities:  Litigation
    accruals and environmental liabilities and the related estimated
    insurance recoverables are reflected on a gross basis as
    liabilities and assets, respectively, on our consolidated
    balance sheets. With respect to the product liability claims
    currently asserted against us, we have accrued for our estimated
    exposures to the extent they are both probable and estimable
    based on the information available to us. We accrue for certain
    product liability claims incurred but not filed to the extent we
    can formulate a reasonable estimate of their costs. We estimate
    these expenses based primarily on historical claims experience
    and data regarding product usage. Legal defense costs expected
    to be incurred in connection

-50-

with significant product liability loss contingencies are
    accrued when probable and reasonably estimable. A portion of the
    costs associated with defending and disposing of these suits is
    covered by insurance. We record receivables for
    insurance-related recoveries when it is probable they will be
    realized. These receivables are classified as a reduction of the
    litigation charges on the statement of income. We estimate
    insurance recoverables based on existing deductibles, coverage
    limits, our assessment of any defenses to coverage that might be
    raised by the carriers, and the existing and projected future
    level of insolvencies among the insurance carriers.

Revenue recognition:  We recognize revenue from sales of
    products at the time title of goods passes to the buyer and the
    buyer assumes the risks and rewards of ownership. For more than
    90 percent of our sales, this is at the time products are
    shipped to the customer, typically a wholesale distributor or a
    major retail chain. The remaining sales are recorded at the
    point of delivery. Provisions for discounts and rebates are
    established in the same period the related sales are recorded.

We also generate income as a result of collaboration agreements.
    Revenue from copromotion services is based upon net sales
    reported by our copromotion partners and, if applicable, the
    number of sales calls we perform. Initial fees we receive from
    the partnering of our compounds under development are amortized
    through the expected product approval date. Initial fees
    received from out-licensing agreements that include both the
    sale of marketing rights to our commercialized products and a
    related commitment to supply the products are generally
    recognized as net sales over the term of the supply agreement.
    We immediately recognize the full amount of milestone payments
    due to us upon the achievement of the milestone event if the
    event is substantive, objectively determinable, and represents
    an important point in the development life cycle of the
    pharmaceutical product. Milestone payments earned by us are
    generally recorded in other income   net.

Research and development:  We recognize as incurred the
    cost of directly acquiring assets to be used in the research and
    development process that have not yet received regulatory
    approval for marketing and for which no alternative future use
    has been identified. Once the product has obtained regulatory
    approval, we capitalize the milestones paid and amortize them
    over the period benefited. Milestones paid prior to regulatory
    approval of the product are generally expensed when the event
    requiring payment of the milestone occurs.

Other income   net:  Other income  
    net consisted of the following:

The joint venture income represents our share of the Lilly ICOS
    LLC joint venture results of operations, net of income taxes. We
    acquired the outstanding ownership of the joint venture in
    January 2007 as a result of our acquisition of ICOS. See
    Note 3 for further discussion.

Income taxes:  Deferred taxes are recognized for the
    future tax effects of temporary differences between financial
    and income tax reporting based on enacted tax laws and rates.
    Federal income taxes are provided on the portion of the income
    of foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the
    United States and be taxable.

Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted the provisions of the
    Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation 48,
    Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (FIN 48).
    Pursuant to FIN 48, we must recognize the tax benefit from
    an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not
    that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the
    taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the
    position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial
    statements from such a position are measured based on the
    largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent
    likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution.

-51-

Earnings per share:  We calculate basic earnings per share
    based on the weighted-average number of outstanding common
    shares and incremental shares. We calculate diluted earnings per
    share based on the weighted-average number of outstanding common
    shares plus the effect of dilutive stock options and other
    incremental shares.

Stock-based compensation:  We recognize the fair value of
    stock-based compensation as expense over the requisite service
    period of the individual grantees, which generally equals the
    vesting period. Under our policy all stock-based awards are
    approved prior to the date of grant. The Compensation Committee
    of the Board of Directors approves the value of the award and
    date of grant. Stock-based compensation that is awarded as part
    of our annual equity grant is made on a specific grant date
    scheduled in advance.

Reclassifications:  Certain reclassifications have been
    made to the December 31, 2006 and 2005 consolidated
    financial statements and accompanying notes to conform with the
    December 31, 2007 presentation.

Note 2:    

Implementation
    of New Financial Accounting Pronouncements  

In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (FASB) revised and issued Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standard (SFAS) No. 141, Business Combinations
    (SFAS 141(R)). SFAS 141(R) changes how the acquisition
    method is applied in accordance with SFAS 141. The primary
    revisions to this Statement require an acquirer in a business
    combination to measure assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and
    any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition
    date, at their fair values as of that date, with limited
    exceptions specified in the Statement. This Statement also
    requires the acquirer in a business combination achieved in
    stages to recognize the identifiable assets and liabilities, as
    well as the noncontrolling interest in the acquiree, at the full
    amounts of their fair values (or other amounts determined in
    accordance with the Statement). Assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed arising from contractual contingencies as of the
    acquisition date are to be measured at their acquisition-date
    fair values, and assets or liabilities arising from all other
    contingencies as of the acquisition date are to be measured at
    their acquisition-date fair value, only if it is more likely
    than not that they meet the definition of an asset or a
    liability in FASB Concepts Statement No. 6, Elements of
    Financial Statements. This Statement significantly amends other
    Statements and authoritative guidance, including FASB
    Interpretation No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement
    No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the
    Purchase Method, and now requires the capitalization of research
    and development assets acquired in a business combination at
    their acquisition-date fair values, separately from goodwill.
    SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, was also
    amended by this Statement to require the acquirer to recognize
    changes in the amount of its deferred tax benefits that are
    recognizable because of a business combination either in income
    from continuing operations in the period of the combination or
    directly in contributed capital, depending on the circumstances.
    This Statement is effective for us for business combinations for
    which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009.

In December 2007, in conjunction with SFAS 141(R), the FASB
    issued SFAS No. 160, Accounting for Noncontrolling
    Interests. This Statement amends Accounting Research
    Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements
    (ARB 51), by requiring companies to report a noncontrolling
    interest in a subsidiary as equity in its consolidated financial
    statements. Disclosure of the amounts of consolidated net income
    attributable to the parent and the noncontrolling interest will
    be required. This Statement also clarifies that transactions
    that result in a change in a parent s ownership interest in
    a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation will be
    treated as equity transactions, while a gain or loss will be
    recognized by the parent when a subsidiary is deconsolidated.
    This Statement is effective for us January 1, 2009, and we
    do not anticipate the implementation to be material to our
    consolidated financial position or results of operations.

In December 2007, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the
    Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) on Issue
     No. 07-1 
     (EITF 07-1), 
    Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements.
     EITF 07-1 
    defines collaborative arrangements and establishes reporting
    requirements for transactions between participants in a
    collaborative arrangement and between participants in the
    arrangement and third parties. This Issue is effective for us
    beginning January 1, 2009 and will be applied
    retrospectively to all prior periods presented for all
    collaborative arrangements existing as of the effective date.
    While we have not yet completed our analysis, we

-52-

do not anticipate the implementation of this Issue to be
    material to our consolidated financial position or results of
    operations.

In June 2007, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the
    EITF on Issue
     No. 07-3 
     (EITF 07-3), 
    Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or
    Services Received for Use in Future Research and Development
    Activities. Pursuant to
     EITF 07-3, 
    nonrefundable advance payments for goods or services that will
    be used or rendered for future research and development
    activities should be deferred and capitalized. Such amounts
    should be recognized as an expense when the related goods are
    delivered or services are performed, or when the goods or
    services are no longer expected to be received. This Issue is
    effective for us beginning January 1, 2008, and is to be
    applied prospectively for contracts entered into on or after the
    effective date. We do not anticipate the implementation of this
    Issue to be material to our consolidated financial position or
    results of operations.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The
    Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities. SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure
    many financial instruments and certain other items at fair
    value. The objective is to improve financial reporting by
    providing entities with the opportunity to mitigate volatility
    in reported earnings caused by measuring related assets and
    liabilities differently without having to apply complex hedge
    accounting provisions. This Statement is effective for us
    beginning January 1, 2008, if adopted; however, we do not
    anticipate adopting this Statement.

We adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation (FIN)
    No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, on
    January 1, 2007. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition
    threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
    recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected
    to be taken in a tax return. See Note 11 for further
    discussion of the impact of adopting this Interpretation.

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair
    Value Measurements. SFAS 157 defines fair value,
    establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP, and
    expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This
    Statement is effective for us beginning January 1, 2008,
    and applies to interim periods. We do not anticipate the
    implementation of this Statement will be material to our
    consolidated financial position or results of operations.

In 2005, the FASB issued FIN 47, Accounting for Conditional
    Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB
    Statement No. 143. FIN 47 requires us to record the
    fair value of a liability for conditional asset retirement
    obligations in the period in which it is incurred, which is
    adjusted to its present value each subsequent period. In
    addition, we are required to capitalize a corresponding amount
    by increasing the carrying amount of the related long-lived
    asset, which is depreciated over the useful life of the related
    long-lived asset. The adoption of FIN 47 on
    December 31, 2005 resulted in a cumulative effect of a
    change in accounting principle of $22.0 million, net of
    income taxes of $11.8 million.

Note 3:    

Acquisitions  

ICOS
    Corporation Acquisition  

On January 29, 2007, we acquired all of the outstanding
    common stock of ICOS Corporation (ICOS), our partner in the
    Lilly ICOS LLC joint venture for the manufacture and sales of
    Cialis for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. The
    acquisition brings the full value of Cialis to us and enables us
    to realize operational efficiencies in the further development,
    marketing, and selling of this product. Under the terms of the
    agreement, each outstanding share of ICOS common stock was
    redeemed for $34 in cash for an aggregate purchase price of
    approximately $2.3 billion, which was financed through
    borrowings.

The acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination
    under the purchase method of accounting. Under the purchase
    method of accounting, the assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed from ICOS are recorded at their respective fair values
    as of the acquisition date in our consolidated financial
    statements. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value
    of the acquired net assets has been recorded as goodwill in the
    amount of $646.7 million. No portion of this goodwill is
    expected to be deductible for tax purposes. ICOS s results
    of operations are included in our consolidated financial
    statements from the date of acquisition.

-53-

We have determined the following estimated fair values for the
    assets purchased and liabilities assumed as of the date of
    acquisition. The determination of estimated fair value requires
    management to make significant estimates and assumptions.

1   

The intangible asset will be
    amortized over the remaining expected patent lives of Cialis in
    each country, which range from 2015 to 2017.

The acquired in-process research and development (IPR D)
    represents compounds currently under development that have not
    yet achieved regulatory approval for marketing. New indications
    for and formulations of the Cialis compound in clinical testing
    at the time of the acquisition represented approximately
    48 percent of the estimated fair value of the IPR D.
    The remaining value of IPR D represents several other
    products in development, with no one asset comprising a
    significant portion of this value. In accordance with
    FIN 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to
    Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method,
    these IPR D intangible assets totaling $303.5 million
    have been written off by a charge to income immediately
    subsequent to the acquisition because the compounds do not have
    any alternative future use. This charge is not deductible for
    tax purposes. The ongoing activity with respect to each of these
    compounds under development is not material to our research and
    development expenses.

There are several methods that can be used to determine the
    estimated fair value of the acquired IPR D. We utilized the
     income method,  which applies a probability weighting
    to the estimated future net cash flows that are derived from
    projected sales revenues and estimated costs. These projections
    are based on factors such as relevant market size, patent
    protection, historical pricing of similar products, and expected
    industry trends. The estimated future net cash flows are then
    discounted to the present value using an appropriate discount
    rate. This analysis is performed for each project independently.
    The discount rate we used in valuing the acquired IPR D
    projects was 20 percent.

Other
    Acquisitions  

During the second quarter of 2007, we acquired all of the
    outstanding stock of both Hypnion, Inc. (Hypnion), a privately
    held neuroscience drug discovery company focused on sleep
    disorders, and Ivy Animal Health, Inc. (Ivy), a privately held
    applied research and pharmaceutical product development company
    focused on the animal health industry, for $445.0 million
    in cash. The ongoing activities with respect to these
    companies  products in development are not material to our
    research and development expenses. The results of operations are
    included in our consolidated financial statements from the
    respective dates of acquisition.

The acquisition of Hypnion provides us with a broader and more
    substantive presence in the area of sleep disorder research and
    ownership of HY10275, a novel Phase II compound with a dual
    mechanism of action aimed at promoting better sleep onset and
    sleep maintenance. This was Hypnion s only significant
    asset. For this acquisition, we recorded a charge of
    $291.1 million, representing the estimated fair value of
    the acquired compound, to acquired IPR D in the second
    quarter of 2007 because the development-stage compound acquired
    did not have any alternative future use. This charge was not
    deductible for tax purposes. Because Hypnion was a
    development-stage company, the transaction was accounted for as
    an acquisition of assets rather than as a business combination
    and, therefore, goodwill was not recorded.

-54-

The acquisition of Ivy provides us with products that complement
    those of our animal health product line. This acquisition has
    been accounted for as a business combination under the purchase
    method of accounting. We have allocated $88.7 million of
    the purchase price to other identifiable intangible assets,
    primarily related to marketed products, $37.0 million to
    acquired IPR D, and $25.0 million to goodwill. The
    IPR D represents products in development that are not yet
    approved for marketing and have no alternative future use.
    Accordingly, the $37.0 million allocated to acquired
    IPR D was expensed immediately subsequent to the
    acquisition. The other identifiable intangible assets will be
    amortized over their estimated remaining useful lives of 10 to
    20 years. Goodwill resulting from this acquisition has been
    fully allocated to the animal health business segment. The
    amount allocated to each of the intangible assets acquired,
    including goodwill, is expected to be deductible for tax
    purposes.

Product
    Acquisitions  

In October 2007, we entered into an agreement with Glenmark
    Pharmaceuticals Limited India whereby we acquired the rights to
    a portfolio of transient receptor potential vanilloid
     sub-family  1
    (TRPV1) antagonist molecules, including a clinical-phase
    compound. The compound is currently in early clinical phase
    development as a potential next-generation treatment for various
    pain conditions, including osteoarthritic pain, and had no
    alternative future use. As with many development-phase
    compounds, launch of the product, if approved, was not expected
    in the near term. Our charge for acquired IPR D was
    $45.0 million, is deductible for tax purposes, and was
    included as expense in the fourth quarter of 2007.

In October 2007, we entered into a global strategic alliance
    with MacroGenics, Inc. (MacroGenics) to develop and
    commercialize teplizumab, a humanized anti-CD3 monoclonal
    antibody, as well as other potential next-generation anti-CD3
    molecules for use in the treatment of autoimmune diseases. As
    part of the arrangement, we acquired the exclusive rights to the
    molecule, which was in the development stage (Phase II/III
    clinical trial for individuals with recent-onset type 1
    diabetes) and had no alternative future use. As with many
    development-phase compounds, launch of the product, if approved,
    was not expected in the near term. Our charge for acquired
    IPR D was $44.0 million, is deductible for tax
    purposes, and was included as expense in the fourth quarter of
    2007.

In January 2007, we entered into an agreement with OSI
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to acquire the rights to its compound for
    the treatment of type 2 diabetes. At the inception of this
    agreement, this compound was in the development stage (Phase I
    clinical trials) and had no alternative future use. As with many
    development-phase compounds, launch of the product, if approved,
    was not expected in the near term. Our charge for acquired
    IPR D related to this arrangement was $25.0 million,
    was included as expense in the first quarter of 2007, and is
    deductible for tax purposes.

In December 2007, we entered into an agreement with BioMS
    Medical Corp. to acquire the rights to its compound for the
    treatment of multiple sclerosis. This agreement was contingent
    upon clearance under the
     Hart-Scott-Rodino 
    Anti-Trust Improvements Act and became effective after
    clearance was received in January 2008. This compound is in the
    development stage (Phase III clinical trials) and has no
    alternative future use. As with many development-phase
    compounds, launch of the product, if approved, was not expected
    in the near term. Our charge for acquired IPR D related to
    this arrangement was $87.0 million, is deductible for tax
    purposes, and will be included as expense in the first quarter
    of 2008.

In connection with these arrangements, our partners are
    generally entitled to future milestones and royalties based on
    sales should these products be approved for commercialization.

Note 4:    

Asset
    Impairments, Restructuring, and Other Special Charges  

The components of the charges included in asset impairments,
    restructuring, and other special charges in our consolidated
    statements of income are described below.

-55-

Asset
    Impairments and Related Restructuring and Other
    Charges  

We incurred asset impairment, restructuring, and other special
    charges of $67.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2007.
    These charges were a result of decisions approved by management
    in the fourth quarter as well as previously announced strategic
    decisions. Components of this charge include non-cash charges of
    $42.5 million for the write-down of impaired assets, all of
    which have no future use, and other charges of
    $25.1 million, primarily related to additional severance
    and environmental cleanup charges related to previously
    announced strategic decisions. The impairment charges are
    necessary to adjust the carrying value of the assets to fair
    value. These restructuring activities were substantially
    complete at December 31, 2007.

In connection with previously announced strategic decisions, we
    recorded asset impairment, restructuring, and other special
    charges of $123.0 million in the first quarter of 2007.
    These charges primarily relate to a voluntary severance program
    at one of our U.S. plants and other costs related to this
    action as well as management actions taken in the fourth quarter
    of 2006 as described below. The component of this charge related
    to the non-cash asset impairment was $67.6 million, and was
    necessary to adjust the carrying value of the assets to fair
    value. These restructuring activities were substantially
    complete at December 31, 2007.

In the fourth quarter of 2006, management approved plans to
    close two research and development facilities and one production
    facility outside the U.S. Management also made the decision
    to stop construction of a planned insulin manufacturing plant in
    the U.S. in an effort to increase productivity in research
    and development operations and to reduce excess manufacturing
    capacity. These decisions, as well as other strategic changes,
    resulted in non-cash charges of $308.8 million for the
    write-down of certain impaired assets, substantially all of
    which have no future use, and other charges of
    $141.5 million, primarily related to severance and contract
    termination payments. The impairment charges were necessary to
    adjust the carrying value of the assets to fair value. These
    restructuring activities were substantially complete at
    December 31, 2007.

In December 2005, management approved, as part of our ongoing
    efforts to increase productivity and reduce our cost structure,
    decisions that resulted in non-cash charges of
    $154.6 million for the write-down of certain impaired
    assets, and other charges of $17.3 million, primarily
    related to contract termination payments. The impaired assets,
    which had no future use, included manufacturing buildings and
    equipment no longer needed to supply projected capacity
    requirements, as well as obsolete research and development
    equipment. The impairment charges were necessary to adjust the
    carrying value of the assets to fair value.

Product
    Liability and Other Special Charges  

As a result of our product liability exposures, the substantial
    majority of which were related to Zyprexa, we recorded net
    pretax charges of $111.9 million, $494.9 million, and
    $1.07 billion in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. These
    charges, which are net of anticipated insurance recoveries,
    include the costs of product liability settlements and related
    defense costs, reserves for product liability exposures and
    defense costs regarding known product liability claims, and
    expected future claims to the extent we could formulate a
    reasonable estimate of the probable number and cost of the
    claims. See Note 13 for further discussion.

Note 5:    

Financial
    Instruments and Investments  

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to credit risk
    consist principally of trade receivables and interest-bearing
    investments. Wholesale distributors of life-sciences products
    and managed care organizations account for a substantial portion
    of trade receivables; collateral is generally not required. The
    risk associated with this concentration is mitigated by our
    ongoing credit review procedures and insurance. We place
    substantially all our interest-bearing investments with major
    financial institutions, in U.S. government securities, or
    with top-rated corporate issuers. At December 31, 2007, our
    investments in debt securities were comprised of 40 percent
    asset-backed securities, 23 percent corporate securities,
    and 37 percent U.S. government securities. In
    accordance with documented corporate policies, we limit the
    amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution or
    corporate issuer. We are exposed to credit-related losses in the
    event of nonperformance by counterparties to financial
    instruments but do not expect any counterparties to fail to meet
    their obligations given their high credit ratings.

-56-

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments  

A summary of our outstanding financial instruments and other
    investments at December 31 follows:

We determine fair values based on quoted market values where
    available or discounted cash flow analyses (principally
    long-term debt). The fair value of equity method and other
    investments is not readily available and disclosure is not
    required. Approximately $1.9 billion of our investments in
    debt securities mature within five years.

A summary of the unrealized gains and losses (pretax) of our
     available-for-sale 
    securities in other comprehensive income at December 31 follows:

The net adjustment to unrealized gains and losses (net of tax)
    on
     available-for-sale 
    securities increased (decreased) other comprehensive income by
    $(5.4) million, $0.3 million, and $(4.6) million
    in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Activity related to our
     available-for-sale 
    investment portfolio was as follows:

During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005,
    net losses related to ineffectiveness and net losses related to
    the portion of our risk-management hedging instruments, fair
    value and cash flow hedges, excluded from the assessment of
    effectiveness were not material.

We expect to reclassify an estimated $21.3 million of
    pretax net losses on cash flow hedges of anticipated foreign
    currency transactions and the variability in expected future
    interest payments on floating rate debt from accumulated other
    comprehensive loss to earnings during 2008.

-57-

Note 6:    

Borrowings  

Long-term debt at December 31 consisted of the following:

In March 2007, we issued $2.50 billion of fixed-rate notes
    ($1.00 billion at 5.20 percent due in 2017;
    $700.0 million at 5.50 percent due in 2027; and
    $800.0 million at 5.55 percent due in 2037).

In August 2005, Eli Lilly Services, Inc. (ELSI), our indirect
    wholly-owned finance subsidiary, issued $1.50 billion of
     13-month 
    floating rate extendible notes. These notes paid interest at
    essentially a rate equivalent to LIBOR. We repaid
    $500.0 million of the notes in December 2006 and the
    remaining $1.00 billion of the notes in March 2007.

The $400.0 million of floating rate bonds outstanding at
    December 31, 2007 are due in 2037 and have variable
    interest rates at LIBOR plus our six-month credit spread,
    adjusted semiannually (total of 4.99 percent at
    December 31, 2007). The interest was to accumulate over the
    life of the bonds and be payable upon maturity. We had an option
    to begin periodic interest payments at any time. We exercised
    this option in November 2006 and paid all previously accrued
    interest on the bonds.

Principal and interest on the private placement bonds are due
    semiannually over the remaining terms of each of these notes. In
    conjunction with these bonds, we entered into interest rate swap
    agreements with the same financial institution, which converts
    the fixed rate into a variable rate of interest at essentially
    LIBOR over the term of the bonds.

The 6.55 percent Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)
    debentures are obligations of the ESOP but are shown on the
    consolidated balance sheet because we guarantee them. The
    principal and interest on the debt are funded by contributions
    from us and by dividends received on certain shares held by the
    ESOP. Because of the amortizing feature of the ESOP debt,
    bondholders will receive both interest and principal payments
    each quarter.

The aggregate amounts of maturities on long-term debt for the
    next five years are as follows: 2008, $395.1 million; 2009,
    $31.1 million; 2010, $16.7 million; 2011,
    $11.2 million; and 2012, $510.9 million.

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, short-term borrowings
    included $18.6 million and $8.6 million, respectively,
    of notes payable to banks and commercial paper. At
    December 31, 2007, we have $1.24 billion of unused
    committed bank credit facilities, $1.20 billion of which
    backs our commercial paper program. Compensating balances and
    commitment fees are not material, and there are no conditions
    that are probable of occurring under which the lines may be
    withdrawn.

We have converted approximately 40 percent of all
    fixed-rate debt to floating rates through the use of interest
    rate swaps. The weighted-average effective borrowing rates based
    on debt obligations and interest rates at December 31, 2007 and
    2006, including the effects of interest rate swaps for hedged
    debt obligations, were 5.47 percent and 5.89 percent,
    respectively.

-58-

In 2007, 2006, and 2005, cash payments of interest on borrowings
    totaled $159.2 million, $305.7 million, and
    $38.2 million, respectively, net of capitalized interest.

In accordance with the requirements of SFAS 133, the
    portion of our fixed-rate debt obligations that is hedged is
    reflected in the consolidated balance sheets as an amount equal
    to the sum of the debt s carrying value plus the fair value
    adjustment representing changes in fair value of the hedged debt
    attributable to movements in market interest rates subsequent to
    the inception of the hedge.

Note 7:    

Stock
    Plans  

We recognize the fair value of stock-based compensation in net
    income. Stock-based compensation cost in the amount of
    $282.0 million, $359.3 million, and
    $403.5 million was recognized in 2007, 2006, and 2005,
    respectively, as well as related tax benefits of
    $96.4 million, $115.9 million, and
    $122.9 million, respectively. In 2007, our stock-based
    compensation expense consisted primarily of performance awards
    (PAs), shareholder value awards (SVAs), and stock options. In
    2006 and 2005, our stock-based compensation expense consisted
    primarily of PAs and stock options. We recognize the stock-based
    compensation expense over the requisite service period of the
    individual grantees, which generally equals the vesting period.
    We provide newly issued shares and treasury stock to satisfy
    stock option exercises and for the issuance of PA and SVA
    shares. We classify tax benefits resulting from tax deductions
    in excess of the compensation cost recognized for exercised
    stock options as a financing cash flow in the consolidated
    statements of cash flows.

At December 31, 2007, additional stock options, PAs, SVAs,
    or restricted stock grants may be granted under the 2002 Lilly
    Stock Plan for not more than 46.6 million shares.

Performance
    Award Program  

Performance awards (PAs) are granted to officers and management
    and are payable in shares of our common stock. The number of PA
    shares actually issued, if any, varies depending on the
    achievement of certain pre-established
     earnings-per-share 
    targets over a one-year period. PA shares are accounted for at
    fair value based upon the closing stock price on the date of
    grant and fully vest at the end of the fiscal year of the grant.
    The fair values of performance awards granted in 2007, 2006, and
    2005 were $54.23, $56.18, and $55.65, respectively. The number
    of shares ultimately issued for the performance award program is
    dependent upon the earnings achieved during the vesting period.
    Pursuant to this plan, approximately 2.3 million shares,
    1.7 million shares, and 0.5 million shares were issued
    in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. Approximately
    2.4 million shares are expected to be issued in 2008.

Shareholder
    Value Award Program  

In 2007, we implemented a shareholder value award (SVA) program,
    which replaced our stock option program. SVAs are granted to
    officers and management and are payable in shares of common
    stock at the end of a three-year period. The number of shares
    actually issued varies depending on our stock price at the end
    of the three-year vesting period compared to pre-established
    target stock prices. We measure the fair value of the SVA unit
    on the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The
    Monte Carlo simulation model utilizes multiple input variables
    that determine the probability of satisfying the market
    condition stipulated in the award grant and calculates the fair
    value of the award. Expected volatilities utilized in the model
    are based on implied volatilities from traded options on our
    stock, historical volatility of our stock price, and other
    factors. Similarly, the dividend yield is based on historical
    experience and our estimate of future dividend yields. The
    risk-free interest rate is derived from the U.S. Treasury
    yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The weighted-average
    fair values of the SVA units granted during 2007 were $49.85
    determined using the following assumptions:

-59-

We granted approximately 970,000 SVA units in February 2007 as
    part of the annual total compensation award, of which the
    majority remains outstanding at December 31, 2007. None of
    the SVA units are vested. The maximum number of shares that
    could ultimately be issued upon vesting of the SVA units
    outstanding at December 31, 2007, is 1.4 million. As
    of December 31, 2007, the total remaining unrecognized
    compensation cost related to nonvested SVAs amounted to
    $34.0 million, which will be amortized over the
    weighted-average remaining requisite service period of
    25.5 months.

Stock
    Option Program  

Stock options were granted in 2006 and 2005 to officers and
    management at exercise prices equal to the fair market value of
    our stock price at the date of grant. No stock options were
    granted in 2007. Options fully vest three years from the grant
    date and have a term of 10 years. We utilized a
    lattice-based option valuation model for estimating the fair
    value of the stock options. The lattice model allows the use of
    a range of assumptions related to volatility, risk-free interest
    rate, and employee exercise behavior. Expected volatilities
    utilized in the lattice model are based on implied volatilities
    from traded options on our stock, historical volatility of our
    stock price, and other factors. Similarly, the dividend yield is
    based on historical experience and our estimate of future
    dividend yields. The risk-free interest rate is derived from the
    U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
    The model incorporates exercise and post-vesting forfeiture
    assumptions based on an analysis of historical data. The
    expected life of the 2006 and 2005 grants is derived from the
    output of the lattice model. The weighted-average fair values of
    the individual options granted during 2006 and 2005 were $15.61
    and $16.06, respectively, determined using the following
    assumptions:

Stock option activity during 2007 is summarized below:

A summary of the status of nonvested options as of
    December 31, 2007, and changes during the year then ended,
    is presented below:

-60-

The intrinsic value of options exercised during 2007, 2006, and
    2005 amounted to $1.5 million, $40.8 million, and
    $131.9 million, respectively. The total grant date fair
    value of options vested during 2007, 2006, and 2005 amounted to
    $381.8 million, $249.1 million, and
    $265.5 million, respectively. We received cash of
    $15.2 million, $66.2 million, and $105.9 million
    from exercises of stock options during 2007, 2006, and 2005,
    respectively, and recognized related tax benefits of
    $0.4 million, $11.3 million, and $36.8 million
    during those same years.

As of December 31, 2007, the total remaining unrecognized
    compensation cost related to nonvested stock options amounted to
    $23.8 million, which will be amortized over the
    weighted-average remaining requisite service period of
    12 months.

Note 8:    

Other
    Assets and Other Liabilities  

Our other receivables include income tax receivable, insurance
    recoverables, interest receivable, and a variety of other items.
    The increase in other receivables is primarily attributable to
    an increase in income tax receivable.

Our sundry assets include our capitalized computer software,
    estimated insurance recoveries from our product litigation
    (Note 13), deferred tax assets (Note 11), and a
    variety of other items. The decrease in sundry assets is
    primarily attributable to a decrease in product liability
    recoverables and a decrease in deferred tax assets.

Our other current liabilities include product litigation, other
    taxes, and a variety of other items. The decrease in other
    current liabilities is caused primarily by a decrease in product
    litigation liabilities.

Our other noncurrent liabilities include product litigation,
    deferred income from our collaboration and out-licensing
    arrangements, and a variety of other items. The decrease in
    other noncurrent liabilities is primarily attributable to a
    decrease in product litigation liabilities.

-61-

Note 9:    

Shareholders 
    Equity  

Changes in certain components of shareholders  equity were
    as follows:

As of December 31, 2007, we have purchased
    $2.58 billion of our announced $3.0 billion share
    repurchase program. We acquired approximately 2.1 million
    and 6.7 million shares in 2006 and 2005, respectively,
    under this program. No shares were repurchased in 2007.

We have 5 million authorized shares of preferred stock. As
    of December 31, 2007 and 2006, no preferred stock has been
    issued.

We have funded an employee benefit trust with 40 million
    shares of Lilly common stock to provide a source of funds to
    assist us in meeting our obligations under various employee
    benefit plans. The funding had no net impact on
    shareholders  equity as we consolidate the employee benefit
    trust. The cost basis of the shares held in the trust was
    $2.64 billion and is shown as a reduction in
    shareholders  equity, which offsets the resulting

-62-

increases of $2.61 billion in additional paid-in capital
    and $25 million in common stock. Any dividend transactions
    between us and the trust are eliminated. Stock held by the trust
    is not considered outstanding in the computation of earnings per
    share. The assets of the trust were not used to fund any of our
    obligations under these employee benefit plans in 2007, 2006, or
    2005.

We have an ESOP as a funding vehicle for the existing employee
    savings plan. The ESOP used the proceeds of a loan from us to
    purchase shares of common stock from the treasury. The ESOP
    issued $200 million of third-party debt, repayment of which
    was guaranteed by us (see Note 6). The proceeds were used
    to purchase shares of our common stock on the open market.
    Shares of common stock held by the ESOP will be allocated to
    participating employees annually through 2017 as part of our
    savings plan contribution. The fair value of shares allocated
    each period is recognized as compensation expense.

Under a Shareholder Rights Plan adopted in 1998, all
    shareholders receive, along with each common share owned, a
    preferred stock purchase right entitling them to purchase from
    the company one one-thousandth of a share of Series B
    Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the Preferred Stock) at a
    price of $325. The rights are exercisable only after the
    Distribution Date, which is generally the 10th business day
    after the date of a public announcement that a person (the
    Acquiring Person) has acquired ownership of 15 percent or
    more of our common stock. We may redeem the rights for $.005 per
    right, up to and including the Distribution Date. The rights
    will expire on July 28, 2008, unless we redeem them earlier.

The rights plan provides that, if an Acquiring Person acquires
    15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock and our
    redemption right has expired, generally each holder of a right
    (other than the Acquiring Person) will have the right to
    purchase at the exercise price the number of shares of our
    common stock that have a value of two times the exercise price.

Alternatively, if, in a transaction not approved by the board of
    directors, we are acquired in a business combination transaction
    or sell 50 percent or more of our assets or earning power
    after a Distribution Date, generally each holder of a right
    (other than the Acquiring Person) will have the right to
    purchase at the exercise price the number of shares of common
    stock of the acquiring company that have a value of two times
    the exercise price.

At any time after an Acquiring Person has acquired
    15 percent or more but less than 50 percent of our
    outstanding common stock, the board of directors may exchange
    the rights (other than those owned by the Acquiring Person) for
    our common stock or Preferred Stock at an exchange ratio of one
    common share (or one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred
    Stock) per right.

-63-

Note 10:    

Earnings
    Per Share  

The following is a reconciliation of the denominators used in
    computing earnings per share before cumulative effect of a
    change in accounting principle:

Following is the composition of income taxes attributable to
    income before cumulative effect of a change in accounting
    principle:

-64-

Significant components of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities as of December 31 are as follows:

At December 31, 2007, we had net operating losses and other
    carryforwards for international and U.S. income tax
    purposes of $1.15 billion: $27.0 million will expire
    within 10 years; $1.09 billion will expire between 10
    and 20 years; and $36.9 million of the carryforwards
    will never expire. The primary components of the remaining
    portion of the deferred tax asset for tax loss carryforwards and
    carrybacks are related to net operating losses for state income
    tax purposes that are fully reserved and a capital loss of
    $433.6 million, which we expect to be carried back. We also
    have tax credit carryforwards and carrybacks of
    $361.5 million available to reduce future income taxes;
    $80.7 million will be carried back; $34.1 million of
    the tax credit carryforwards will expire after 5 years; and
    $13.3 million of the tax credit carryforwards will never
    expire. The remaining portion of the tax credit carryforwards is
    related to state tax credits that are fully reserved. The
    increase in both the deferred tax asset for tax loss
    carryforwards and carrybacks and the deferred tax liability for
    intangibles resulted primarily from the acquisition of ICOS. See
    Note 3 for further discussion.

Domestic and Puerto Rican companies contributed approximately
    7 percent, 18 percent, and 43 percent in 2007,
    2006, and 2005, respectively, to consolidated income before
    income taxes and cumulative effect of a change in accounting
    principle. We have a subsidiary operating in Puerto Rico under a
    tax incentive grant. The current tax incentive grant will not
    expire prior to 2017.

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA) created a
    temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate
    undistributed income earned abroad by providing an
    85 percent dividends received deduction for certain
    dividends from controlled foreign corporations in 2005. We
    recorded a related tax liability of $465.0 million as of
    December 31, 2004, and subsequently repatriated
    $8.00 billion in incentive dividends, as defined in the
    AJCA, during 2005. At December 31, 2007, we had an
    aggregate of $8.79 billion of unremitted earnings of
    foreign subsidiaries that have been or are intended to be
    permanently reinvested for continued use in foreign operations
    and that, if distributed, would result in taxes at approximately
    the U.S. statutory rate.

-65-

Cash payments of income taxes totaled $1.01 billion,
    $864.0 million, and $1.78 billion in 2007, 2006, and
    2005, respectively. The higher cash payments of income taxes in
    2005 are primarily attributable to the tax liability associated
    with the implementation of the AJCA and the resolution of an IRS
    examination for the years 1998 to 2000.

Following is a reconciliation of the effective income tax rate
    applicable to income before income taxes and cumulative effect
    of a change in accounting principle:

We adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. FIN 48
    prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for
    the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax
    position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. As a
    result of the implementation of FIN 48, we reclassified
    $921.4 million of income taxes payable from current to
    non-current liabilities. We also recognized an increase of
    $8.6 million in the liability for unrecognized tax
    benefits, and an offsetting reduction to the January 1,
    2007 balance of retained earnings. A reconciliation of the
    beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits
    is as follows:

The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if
    recognized, would affect our effective tax rate was
    $1.46 billion at December 31, 2007.

We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction
    and various state, local, and
     non-U.S. jurisdictions. 
    We are no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local,
    or
     non-U.S. income 
    tax examinations in major taxing jurisdictions for years before
    2001. We are currently under audit by the Internal Revenue
    Service (IRS) for tax years
     2001-2004, 
    and management believes it is reasonably possible that a
    substantial portion of this audit will conclude within the next
    12 months; however, the ultimate resolution of all issues
    in the audit period is dependent upon a number of factors,
    including the potential for formal administrative and legal
    proceedings. Resolution of a substantial portion of the audit
    would bring certainty to specific tax positions addressed in the
    audit, allowing for a reduction in gross unrecognized tax
    benefits. If such resolution is reached within the next
    12 months, we estimate a reduction in gross unrecognized
    tax benefits in the range of $600 million to
    $700 million. As a result, our consolidated results of
    operations could benefit up to $190 million through a
    reduction in income tax expense. The majority of this reduction
    in unrecognized tax benefits relates to intercompany pricing
    positions that were agreed with the IRS in a prior audit cycle
    for which a prepayment of tax was made in 2005. We anticipate
    that any tax due upon such resolution has been prepaid or tax
    carryovers will be utilized, which will result in no additional
    cash payments.

We recognize both accrued interest and penalties related to
    unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. During the
    years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, we
    recognized $66.6 million, $51.2 million, and
    $44.2 million in interest and penalties, respectively. At
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, our accruals for the

-66-

payment of interest and penalties totaled $238.4 million
    and $171.8 million, respectively. Substantially all of the
    expense and accruals relate to interest.

Note 12:    

Retirement
    Benefits  

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,
    Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
    Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements
    No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R). SFAS 158 required the
    recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined
    benefit postretirement plan as an asset or liability in its
    statement of financial position, the measurement of a
    plan s assets and its obligations that determine its funded
    status as of the end of the employer s fiscal year, and the
    recognition of changes in that funded status through
    comprehensive income in the year in which the changes occur. We
    adopted the provisions of SFAS 158 on December 31,
    2006.

-67-

We use a measurement date of December 31 to develop the change
    in benefit obligation, change in plan assets, funded status, and
    amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets at
    December 31 for our defined benefit pension and retiree health
    benefit plans, which were as follows:

The unrecognized net actuarial loss and unrecognized prior
    service cost (benefit) have not yet been recognized in net
    periodic pension costs and are included in accumulated other
    comprehensive loss at December 31, 2007.

In 2008, we expect to recognize from accumulated other
    comprehensive loss as components of net periodic benefit cost
    $71.5 million of unrecognized net actuarial loss and
    $9.5 million of unrecognized prior service cost related to
    our defined benefit pension plans and $65.2 million of
    unrecognized net actuarial loss and $36.0 million of
    unrecognized prior service benefit related to our retiree health
    benefit plans. We do not expect any plan assets to be returned
    to us in 2008.

-68-

The following represents our weighted-average assumptions as of
    December 31:

In evaluating the expected return on plan assets, we have
    considered our historical assumptions compared with actual
    results, an analysis of current market conditions, asset
    allocations, and the views of leading financial advisers and
    economists. Our plan assets in our U.S. defined benefit
    pension and retiree health plans comprise approximately
    83 percent of our worldwide benefit plan assets. Including
    the investment losses due to overall market conditions in 2001
    and 2002, our 10- and
     20-year 
    annualized rates of return on our U.S. defined benefit
    pension plans and retiree health benefit plan were approximately
    8.9 percent and 11.3 percent, respectively, as of
    December 31, 2007. Health-care-cost trend rates were
    assumed to increase at an annual rate of 9.3 percent in
    2008, decreasing by approximately 0.6 percent per year to
    an ultimate rate of 5.5 percent by 2014.

The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future
    service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows:

The total accumulated benefit obligation for our defined benefit
    pension plans was $5.69 billion and $5.65 billion at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The projected
    benefit obligation and fair value of the plan assets for the
    defined benefit pension plans with projected benefit obligations
    in excess of plan assets were $1.04 billion and
    $160.9 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2007,
    and $2.23 billion and $1.22 billion, respectively, as
    of December 31, 2006. The accumulated benefit obligation
    and fair value of the plan assets for the defined benefit
    pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of
    plan assets were $825.8 million and $46.9 million,
    respectively, as of December 31, 2007, and
    $805.0 million and $37.7 million, respectively, as of
    December 31, 2006.

Net pension and retiree health benefit expense included the
    following components:

-69-

If the health-care-cost trend rates were to be increased by one
    percentage point each future year, the December 31, 2007,
    accumulated postretirement benefit obligation would increase by
    $226.6 million (14.0 percent) and the aggregate of the
    service cost and interest cost components of the 2007 annual
    expense would increase by $27.8 million
    (16.2 percent). A one-percentage-point decrease in these
    rates would decrease the December 31, 2007, accumulated
    postretirement benefit obligation by $187.9 million
    (11.6 percent) and the aggregate of the 2007 service cost
    and interest cost by $22.7 million (13.2 percent).

The following represents the amounts recognized in other
    comprehensive income in 2007:

We have defined contribution savings plans that cover our
    eligible employees worldwide. The purpose of these defined
    contribution plans is generally to provide additional financial
    security during retirement by providing employees with an
    incentive to save. Our contributions to the plan are based on
    employee contributions and the level of our match. Expenses
    under the plans totaled $112.3 million,
    $106.5 million, and $96.1 million for the years 2007,
    2006, and 2005, respectively.

We provide certain other postemployment benefits primarily
    related to disability benefits and accrue for the related cost
    over the service lives of employees. Expenses associated with
    these benefit plans in 2007, 2006, and 2005 were not significant.

Our U.S. defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit
    plan investment allocation strategy currently comprises
    approximately 85 percent to 95 percent growth
    investments and 5 percent to 15 percent fixed-income
    investments. Within the growth investment classification, the
    plan asset strategy encompasses equity and equity-like
    instruments that are expected to represent approximately
    75 percent of our plan asset portfolio of both public and
    private market investments. The largest component of these
    equity and equity-like instruments is public equity securities
    that are well diversified and invested in U.S. and
    international
     small-to-large 
    companies. The remaining portion of the growth investment
    classification is represented by other alternative growth
    investments.

Our defined benefit pension plan and retiree health plan asset
    allocations as of December 31 are as follows:

In 2008, we expect to contribute approximately $70 million
    to our defined benefit pension plans to satisfy minimum funding
    requirements for the year. In addition, we expect to contribute
    approximately $110 million

-70-

of additional discretionary funding in 2008 to our defined
    benefit plans. We do not expect to make any contributions to our
    post-retirement health benefit plans during 2008.

We are a party to various legal actions, government
    investigations, and environmental proceedings. The most
    significant of these are described below. While it is not
    possible to determine the outcome of these matters, we believe
    that, except as specifically noted below, the resolution of all
    such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial position or liquidity, but could possibly
    be material to our consolidated results of operations in any one
    accounting period.

Patent
    Litigation  

We are engaged in the following patent litigation matters
    brought pursuant to procedures set out in the Hatch-Waxman Act
    (the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of
    1984):

Barr Laboratories, Inc. (Barr), submitted an Abbreviated New
    Drug Application (ANDA) in 2002 seeking permission to market a
    generic version of Evista prior to the expiration of our
    relevant U.S. patents (expiring in
     2012-2017) 
    and alleging that these patents are invalid, not enforceable, or
    not infringed. In November 2002, we filed a lawsuit against Barr
    in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
    Indiana, seeking a ruling that these patents are valid,
    enforceable, and being infringed by Barr. Teva has also
    submitted an ANDA seeking permission to market a generic version
    of Evista. In June 2006, we filed a similar lawsuit against Teva
    in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
    Indiana. The lawsuit against Teva is currently scheduled for
    trial beginning March 9, 2009, while no trial date has been
    set in the lawsuit against Barr. We believe that Barr s and
    Teva s claims are without merit and we expect to prevail.
    However, it is not possible to determine the outcome of this
    litigation, and accordingly, we can provide no assurance that we
    will prevail. An unfavorable outcome could have a material
    adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations,
    liquidity, and financial position.

Sicor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Sicor), Mayne Pharma (USA) Inc.
    (Mayne), and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Inc. (Sun) each
    submitted ANDAs seeking permission to market generic versions of
    Gemzar prior to the expiration of our relevant U.S. patents
    (compound patent expiring in 2010 and
     method-of-use 
    patent expiring in 2013), and alleging that these patents are
    invalid. We filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for
    the Southern District of Indiana against Sicor (February 2006)
    and Mayne (October 2006), seeking rulings that these patents are
    valid and are being infringed. In November 2007, the lawsuit
    against Mayne was stayed and administratively closed by the
    court. Also in November 2007, Sun filed a declaratory judgment
    action in the United States District Court for the Eastern
    District of Michigan, seeking a ruling that our
     method-of-use 
    patent is invalid or unenforceable, or would not be infringed by
    the sale of Sun s generic product. Sun informed us in
    December 2007 that it is also challenging our compound patent,
    and that patent has now been added to the declaratory judgment
    action. In January 2008, we filed a second lawsuit against Mayne
    in response to a second ANDA filed by Mayne for a new dosage
    strength. We expect to prevail in this litigation and believe
    that these claims are without merit. However, it is not possible
    to determine the outcome of this litigation, and accordingly, we
    can provide no assurance that we will prevail. An unfavorable
    outcome could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated
    results of operations, liquidity, and financial position.

Actavis Elizabeth LLC (Actavis), Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
    USA (Glenmark), Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited (Sun),
    Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz), Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Mylan), Teva
    Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva), Apotex Inc. (Apotex),
    Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. (Aurobindo), Synthon Laboratories, Inc.
    (Synthon), and Zydus Pharmaceuticals, USA, Inc. (Zydus) each
    submitted an ANDA seeking permission to market generic versions
    of Strattera prior to the expiration of our relevant
    U.S. patent (expiring in 2017), and alleging that this
    patent is invalid. We filed a lawsuit against Actavis in the
    United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in
    August 2007. Sandoz filed a declaratory judgment action in the
    same court, but its case has been dismissed. In September 2007,
    we amended the complaint in the New Jersey lawsuit to add
    Glenmark, Sun, Sandoz, Mylan, Teva, Apotex, Aurobindo, Synthon,
    and Zydus as defendants. We filed

-71-

a second action against Synthon in the United States District
    Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. Synthon has filed a
    motion to dismiss our lawsuit in New Jersey. In December 2007,
    Zydus agreed to entry of a consent judgment in which Zydus
    conceded the validity and enforceability of the patent and
    agreed to a permanent injunction. We expect to prevail in this
    litigation and believe that these claims are without merit.
    However, it is not possible to determine the outcome of this
    litigation, and accordingly, we can provide no assurance that we
    will prevail. An unfavorable outcome could have a material
    adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations,
    liquidity, and financial position.

We have received challenges to Zyprexa patents in a number of
    countries outside the U.S.:

In Canada, several generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have
    challenged the validity of our Zyprexa compound and
     method-of-use 
    patent (expiring in 2011). In April 2007, the Canadian Federal
    Court ruled against the first challenger, Apotex Inc. (Apotex),
    and Apotex has appealed that ruling. In June 2007, the Canadian
    Federal Court held that the invalidity allegations of a second
    challenger, Novopharm Ltd. (Novopharm), were justified and
    denied our request that Novopharm be prohibited from receiving
    marketing approval for generic olanzapine in Canada. Novopharm
    began selling generic olanzapine in Canada in the third quarter
    of 2007. We have appealed that decision and sued Novopharm for
    patent infringement. The appeal was dismissed. In November 2007,
    Apotex filed an action seeking a declaration of the invalidity
    of our Zyprexa compound and
     method-of-use 
    patents (expiring in 2011). The trial court ruled in our favor
    in February 2007. Apotex will likely appeal.

In Germany, generic pharmaceutical manufacturers
    Egis-Gyogyszergyar and Neolabs Ltd. challenged the validity of
    our Zyprexa compound and
     method-of-use 
    patents (expiring in 2011). In June 2007, the German Federal
    Patent Court held that our patent is invalid. We are appealing
    the decision. Generic olanzapine was launched by competitors in
    Germany in the fourth quarter of 2007.

We have received challenges in a number of other countries,
    including Spain, the United Kingdom (U.K.), and several smaller
    European countries. In Spain, we have been successful at both
    the trial and appellate court levels in defeating the generic
    manufacturers  challenge, but we anticipate further legal
    challenges from generic manufacturers. In the U.K., a trial date
    has tentatively been set for July 2008.

We are vigorously contesting the various legal challenges to our
    Zyprexa patents on a
     country-by-country 
    basis. We cannot determine the outcome of this litigation. The
    availability of generic olanzapine in Canada and Germany will
    have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of
    operations. The availability of generic olanzapine in additional
    markets could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated
    results of operations.

In June 2002, Ariad Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the Massachusetts
    Institute of Technology, the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical
    Research, and the President and Fellows of Harvard College in
    the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts
    sued us, alleging that sales of two of our products, Xigris and
    Evista, were inducing the infringement of a patent related to
    the discovery of a natural cell signaling phenomenon in the
    human body, and seeking royalties on past and future sales of
    these products. On May 4, 2006, a jury in Boston issued an
    initial decision in the case that Xigris and Evista sales
    infringe the patent. The jury awarded the plaintiffs
    approximately $65 million in damages, calculated by
    applying a 2.3 percent royalty to all U.S. sales of
    Xigris and Evista from the date of issuance of the patent
    through the date of trial. In addition, a separate bench trial
    with the U.S. District Court of Massachusetts was held in
    August 2006, on our contention that the patent is unenforceable
    and impermissibly covers natural processes. In June 2005, the
    United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) commenced a
    reexamination of the patent, and in August 2007 took the
    position that the Ariad claims at issue are unpatentable, a
    position that Ariad continues to contest. In September 2007, the
    Court entered a final judgment indicating that Ariad s
    claims are patentable, valid, and enforceable, and finding
    damages in the amount of $65 million plus a
    2.3 percent royalty on net U.S. sales of Xigris and
    Evista since the time of the jury decision. However, the Court
    deferred the requirement to pay any damages until after all
    rights to appeal have been exhausted. We plan to appeal this
    judment. We believe that these allegations are without legal
    merit, that we will ultimately prevail on these issues, and
    therefore that the likelihood of any monetary damages is remote.

-72-

Government
    Investigations and Related Litigation  

In March 2004, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the
    Eastern District of Pennsylvania (EDPA) advised us that it had
    commenced an investigation related to our U.S. marketing
    and promotional practices, including our communications with
    physicians and remuneration of physician consultants and
    advisors, with respect to Zyprexa, Prozac, and Prozac Weekly. In
    November 2007, we received a grand jury subpoena from the EDPA
    for a broad range of documents related to Zyprexa. A number of
    State Medicaid Fraud Control Units are coordinating with the
    EDPA in its investigation of any Medicaid-related claims
    relating to our marketing and promotion of Zyprexa. In October
    2005, the EDPA advised that it is also conducting an inquiry
    regarding certain rebate agreements we entered into with a
    pharmacy benefit manager covering Axid, Evista, Humalog,
    Humulin, Prozac, and Zyprexa. The inquiry includes a review of
    our Medicaid best price reporting related to the product sales
    covered by the rebate agreements.

In June 2005, we received a subpoena from the Office of the
    Attorney General, Medicaid Fraud Control Unit, of the State of
    Florida, seeking production of documents relating to sales of
    Zyprexa and our marketing and promotional practices with respect
    to Zyprexa.

In September 2006, we received a subpoena from the California
    Attorney General s Office seeking production of documents
    related to our efforts to obtain and maintain Zyprexa s
    status on California s formulary, marketing and promotional
    practices with respect to Zyprexa, and remuneration of health
    care providers.

In February 2007, we received a subpoena from the Office of the
    Attorney General of the State of Illinois, seeking production of
    documents and information relating to sales of Zyprexa and our
    marketing and promotional practices, including our
    communications with physicians and remuneration of physician
    consultants and advisors, with respect to Zyprexa.

Beginning in August 2006, we have received civil investigative
    demands or subpoenas from the attorneys general of a number of
    states under various state consumer protection laws. Most of
    these requests are now part of a multistate investigative effort
    being coordinated by an executive committee of attorneys
    general. We are aware that approximately 30 states are
    participating in this joint effort, and it is possible that
    additional states will join the investigation. These attorneys
    general are seeking a broad range of Zyprexa documents,
    including documents relating to sales, marketing and promotional
    practices, and remuneration of health care providers. In
    addition, we have been named as a defendant in a private suit in
    California State Court, which was removed to federal court,
    alleging violations of the California False Claims Act with
    respect to certain Zyprexa marketing and promotional practices.
    This suit was brought by an individual on behalf of the
    government, under the qui tam provision of the California False
    Claims Act.

We are cooperating in each of these investigations, including
    providing a broad range of documents and information relating to
    the investigations. It is possible that other Lilly products
    could become subject to investigation and that the outcome of
    these matters could include criminal charges and fines,
    penalties, or other monetary or nonmonetary remedies. We cannot
    determine the outcome of these matters or reasonably estimate
    the amount or range of amounts of any fines or penalties that
    might result from an adverse outcome. It is possible, however,
    that an adverse outcome could have a material adverse impact on
    our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, and financial
    position. We have implemented and continue to review and enhance
    a broadly based compliance program that includes comprehensive
    compliance-related activities designed to ensure that our
    marketing and promotional practices, physician communications,
    remuneration of health care professionals, managed care
    arrangements, and Medicaid best price reporting comply with
    applicable laws and regulations.

Product
    Liability and Related Litigation  

We have been named as a defendant in a large number of Zyprexa
    product liability lawsuits in the United States and have been
    notified of many other claims of individuals who have not filed
    suit. The lawsuits and unfiled claims (together the
     claims ) allege a variety of injuries from the use of
    Zyprexa, with the majority alleging that the product caused or
    contributed to diabetes or high blood-glucose levels. The claims
    seek substantial compensatory and punitive damages and typically
    accuse us of inadequately testing for and warning

-73-

about side effects of Zyprexa. Many of the claims also allege
    that we improperly promoted the drug. Almost all of the federal
    lawsuits are part of a Multi-District Litigation (MDL)
    proceeding before The Honorable Jack Weinstein in the Federal
    District Court for the Eastern District of New York (MDL
    No. 1596).

Since June 2005, we have entered into agreements with various
    claimants  attorneys involved in U.S. Zyprexa product
    liability litigation to settle a substantial majority of the
    claims. The agreements cover a total of approximately 31,200
    claimants, including a large number of previously filed lawsuits
    and other asserted claims. The two primary settlements were as
    follows:

The 2005 settlement totaling $700.0 million was paid during
    2005. The January 2007 settlements were paid during 2007.

We are prepared to continue our vigorous defense of Zyprexa in
    all remaining claims. The U.S. Zyprexa product liability
    claims not subject to these agreements include approximately 325
    lawsuits in the U.S. covering approximately 1,235
    plaintiffs. Trial dates have been set for June 23, 2008, in
    the Eastern District of New York, for several of the
    U.S. plaintiffs.

In early 2005, we were served with four lawsuits seeking class
    action status in Canada on behalf of patients who took Zyprexa.
    One of these four lawsuits has been certified for residents of
    Quebec, and a second has been certified in Ontario and includes
    all Canadian residents, except for residents of Quebec and
    British Columbia. The allegations in the Canadian actions are
    similar to those in the litigation pending in the U.S.

We have insurance coverage for a portion of our Zyprexa product
    liability claims exposure. The third-party insurance carriers
    have raised defenses to their liability under the policies and
    are seeking to rescind the policies. The dispute was the subject
    of litigation in the federal court in Indianapolis against
    certain of the carriers and in arbitration in Bermuda against
    other carriers. In the second half of 2007, we reached
    settlements resolving the vast majority of the disputed
    insurance claims, and a portion of the insurance proceeds were
    paid to us prior to the end of 2007.

Since the beginning of 2005, we have recorded aggregate net
    pretax charges of $1.61 billion for Zyprexa product
    liability matters. The net charges, which take into account our
    actual and expected insurance recoveries, covered the following:

The cost of the Zyprexa product liability settlements to date;
    and

Reserves for product liability exposures and defense costs
    regarding the known Zyprexa product liability claims and
    expected future claims to the extent we could formulate a
    reasonable estimate of the probable number and cost of the
    claims.

In December 2004, we were served with two lawsuits brought in
    state court in Louisiana on behalf of the Louisiana Department
    of Health and Hospitals, alleging that Zyprexa caused or
    contributed to diabetes or high blood-glucose levels, and that
    we improperly promoted the drug. These cases have been removed
    to federal court and are now part of the MDL proceedings in the
    Eastern District of New York. In these actions, the Department
    of Health and Hospitals seeks to recover the costs it paid for
    Zyprexa through Medicaid and other drug-benefit programs, as
    well as the costs the department alleges it has incurred and
    will incur to treat Zyprexa-related illnesses. We have been
    served with similar lawsuits filed by the states of Alaska,
    Mississippi, Montana, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, South Carolina,
    Utah, and West Virginia in the courts of the respective states.
    The Mississippi, Montana, New Mexico, and West Virginia cases
    have been removed to federal court and are now part of the MDL
    proceedings in the Eastern District of New York. The Alaska case
    is scheduled for trial beginning March 3, 2008.

In 2005, two lawsuits were filed in the Eastern District of New
    York purporting to be nationwide class actions on behalf of all
    consumers and third-party payors, excluding governmental
    entities, which have made or will

-74-

make payments for their members or insured patients being
    prescribed Zyprexa. These actions have now been consolidated
    into a single lawsuit, which is brought under certain state
    consumer protection statutes, the federal civil RICO statute,
    and common law theories, seeking a refund of the cost of
    Zyprexa, treble damages, punitive damages, and attorneys 
    fees. Two additional lawsuits were filed in the Eastern District
    of New York in 2006 on similar grounds. In 2007, The
    Pennsylvania Employees Trust Fund brought claims in state
    court in Pennsylvania as insurer of Pennsylvania state
    employees, who were prescribed Zyprexa on similar grounds as
    described in the New York cases. As with the product liability
    suits, these lawsuits allege that we inadequately tested for and
    warned about side effects of Zyprexa and improperly promoted the
    drug.

We cannot determine with certainty the additional number of
    lawsuits and claims that may be asserted. The ultimate
    resolution of Zyprexa product liability and related litigation
    could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results
    of operations, liquidity, and financial position.

In addition, we have been named as a defendant in numerous other
    product liability lawsuits involving primarily
    diethylstilbestrol (DES) and thimerosal. The majority of these
    claims are covered by insurance, subject to deductibles and
    coverage limits.

Because of the nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible
    that we could become subject to large numbers of product
    liability and related claims for other products in the future.
    In the past few years, we have experienced difficulties in
    obtaining product liability insurance due to a very restrictive
    insurance market. Therefore, for substantially all of our
    currently marketed products, we have been and expect that we
    will continue to be largely self-insured for future product
    liability losses. In addition, as noted above, there is no
    assurance that we will be able to fully collect from our
    insurance carriers on past claims.

Environmental
    Matters  

Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
    and Liability Act, commonly known as Super-fund, we have been
    designated as one of several potentially responsible parties
    with respect to fewer than 10 sites. Under Superfund, each
    responsible party may be jointly and severally liable for the
    entire amount of the cleanup. We also continue remediation of
    certain of our own sites. We have accrued for estimated
    Superfund cleanup costs, remediation, and certain other
    environmental matters. This takes into account, as applicable,
    available information regarding site conditions, potential
    cleanup methods, estimated costs, and the extent to which other
    parties can be expected to contribute to payment of those costs.
    We have limited liability insurance coverage for certain
    environmental liabilities.

Note 14:    

Other
    Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

The accumulated balances related to each component of other
    comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:

The amounts above are net of income taxes. The income taxes
    associated with the unrecognized losses and prior service costs
    (Note 12) were an expense of $292.1 million for
    2007. The income taxes related to the other components of
    comprehensive income were not significant, as income taxes were
    not provided for foreign currency translation.

The unrealized gains (losses) on securities is net of
    reclassification adjustments of $5.8 million,
    $16.9 million, and $9.1 million, net of tax, in 2007,
    2006, and 2005, respectively, for net realized gains on sales of
    securities included in net income. The effective portion of cash
    flow hedges is net of reclassification adjustments of
    $8.8 million, $2.3 million, and $3.8 million, net
    of tax, in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, for realized

-75-

losses on foreign currency options and $11.6 million,
    $17.1 million, and $21.4 million, net of tax, in 2007,
    2006, and 2005, respectively, for interest expense on interest
    rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges.

Generally, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are
    translated into U.S. dollars using the current exchange
    rate. For those operations, changes in exchange rates generally
    do not affect cash flows; therefore, resulting translation
    adjustments are made in shareholders  equity rather than in
    income.

-76-

Management s
    Reports  

Management s
    Report for Financial Statements   Eli Lilly and
    Company and Subsidiaries  

Management of Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries is
    responsible for the accuracy, integrity, and fair presentation
    of the financial statements. The statements have been prepared
    in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in
    the United States and include amounts based on judgments and
    estimates by management. In management s opinion, the
    consolidated financial statements present fairly our financial
    position, results of operations, and cash flows.

In addition to the system of internal accounting controls, we
    maintain a code of conduct (known as  The Red Book ) that
    applies to all employees worldwide, requiring proper overall
    business conduct, avoidance of conflicts of interest, compliance
    with laws, and confidentiality of proprietary information.
     The Red Book  is reviewed on a periodic basis with
    employees worldwide, and all employees are required to report
    suspected violations. A hotline number is published in  The
    Red Book  to enable employees to report suspected violations
    anonymously. Employees who report suspected violations are
    protected from discrimination or retaliation by the company. In
    addition to  The Red Book , the CEO, the COO, and all
    financial management must sign a financial code of ethics, which
    further reinforces their fiduciary responsibilities.

The financial statements have been audited by Ernst  
    Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm.
    Their responsibility is to examine our consolidated financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing
    standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States). Ernst   Young s opinion with
    respect to the fairness of the presentation of the statements
    (see opinion on page 58) is included in our annual
    report. Ernst   Young reports directly to the audit
    committee of the board of directors.

Our audit committee includes four nonemployee members of the
    board of directors, all of whom are independent from our
    company. The committee charter, which is published in the proxy
    statement, outlines the members  roles and responsibilities
    and is consistent with enacted corporate reform laws and
    regulations. It is the audit committee s responsibility to
    appoint an independent registered public accounting firm subject
    to shareholder ratification, approve both audit and nonaudit
    services performed by the independent registered public
    accounting firm, and review the reports submitted by the firm.
    The audit committee meets several times during the year with
    management, the internal auditors, and the independent public
    accounting firm to discuss audit activities, internal controls,
    and financial reporting matters, including reviews of our
    externally published financial results. The internal auditors
    and the independent registered public accounting firm have full
    and free access to the committee.

We are dedicated to ensuring that we maintain the high standards
    of financial accounting and reporting that we have established.
    We are committed to providing financial information that is
    transparent, timely, complete, relevant, and accurate. Our
    culture demands integrity and an unyielding commitment to strong
    internal practices and policies. Finally, we have the highest
    confidence in our financial reporting, our underlying system of
    internal controls, and our people, who are objective in their
    responsibilities and operate under a code of conduct and the
    highest level of ethical standards.

-77-

Management s
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
    Eli Lilly and Company and Subsidiaries  

Management of Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries is
    responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
    control over financial reporting as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We have global
    financial policies that govern critical areas, including
    internal controls, financial accounting and reporting, fiduciary
    accountability, and safeguarding of corporate assets. Our
    internal accounting control systems are designed to provide
    reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded, that
    transactions are executed in accordance with management s
    authorization and are properly recorded, and that accounting
    records are adequate for preparation of financial statements and
    other financial information. A staff of internal auditors
    regularly monitors, on a worldwide basis, the adequacy and
    effectiveness of internal accounting controls. The general
    auditor reports directly to the audit committee of the board of
    directors.

We conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal
    control over financial reporting based on the framework in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission. Based on our evaluation under this framework, we
    concluded that our internal control over financial reporting
    were effective as of December 31, 2007. However, because of
    its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
    reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
    projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
    are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
    because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
    compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The internal control over financial reporting has been assessed
    by Ernst   Young LLP. Their responsibility is to
    evaluate whether internal control over financial reporting was
    designed and operating effectively.

Sidney Taurel

John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D.

Derica W. Rice

Chairman of the Board and 
    Chief Executive Officer  

President and Chief Operating
    Officer  

Senior Vice President and 
    Chief Financial Officer   

February 8, 2008

-78-

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

Board of Directors and Shareholders 

Eli Lilly and Company 

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries as of December 31,
    2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of
    income, cash flows, and comprehensive income for each of the
    three years in the period ended December 31, 2007. These
    financial statements are the responsibility of the
    company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the consolidated results of
    their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity
    with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    effectiveness of Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries 
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission and our report dated February 8, 2008 expressed
    an unqualified opinion thereon.

As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, in 2005
    Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries adopted a new accounting
    pronouncement for asset retirement obligations. As discussed in
    Note 12 to the financial statements, in 2006 Eli Lilly and
    Company and subsidiaries adopted a new accounting pronouncement
    for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. As
    discussed in Note 11 to the financial statements, in 2007
    Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries adopted a new accounting
    pronouncement for income taxes.

Indianapolis, Indiana

February 8, 2008

-79-

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

Board of Directors and Shareholders 

Eli Lilly and Company 

We have audited Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries 
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in
     Internal Control-Integrated Framework  issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    (the COSO criteria). Eli Lilly and Company and
    subsidiaries  management is responsible for maintaining
    effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
    assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting included in the accompanying
    Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
    company s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries
    maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
    over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on
    the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    2007 consolidated financial statements of Eli Lilly and Company
    and subsidiaries and our report dated February 8, 2008,
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Indianapolis, Indiana

February 8, 2008

-80-

Item 9.    

Changes in
    and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
    Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.    

Controls and
    Procedures

Disclosure
    Controls and Procedures  

Under applicable SEC regulations, management of a reporting
    company, with the participation of the principal executive
    officer and principal financial officer, must periodically
    evaluate the company s  disclosure controls and
    procedures,  which are defined generally as controls and
    other procedures of a reporting company designed to ensure that
    information required to be disclosed by the reporting company in
    its periodic reports filed with the commission (such as this
     Form 10-K) 
    is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported on a timely
    basis.

Our management, with the participation of Sidney Taurel,
    chairman and chief executive officer, and Derica W. Rice, senior
    vice president and chief financial officer, evaluated our
    disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2007,
    and concluded that they are effective.

Internal
    Control over Financial Reporting  

Messrs. Taurel and Rice and Dr. John C. Lechleiter,
    president and chief operating officer, provided a report on
    behalf of management on our internal control over financial
    reporting, in which management concluded that the company s
    internal control over financial reporting is effective at
    December 31, 2007. In addition, Ernst   Young
    LLP, the company s independent registered public accounting
    firm, provided an attestation report on the company s
    internal control over financial reporting. You can find the full
    text of management s report and Ernst  
    Young s attestation report in Part II, Item 8,
    and both reports are incorporated by reference in this Item.

Changes
    in Internal Controls  

During the fourth quarter of 2007, there were no changes in our
    internal control over financial reporting that materially
    affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our
    internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.    

Other
    Information

Not applicable.

Part III

Item 10.    

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Directors
    and Executive Officers  

Information relating to our Board of Directors is found in our
    Proxy Statement to be dated on or about March 10, 2008 (the
     Proxy Statement ) under  Board of
    Directors  at pages
     65-68,  and
    is incorporated in this report by reference.

Information relating to our executive officers is found at
    Part I, Item 1 of this
     Form 10-K 
    under  Executive Officers of the Company.  In
    addition, information relating to certain filing obligations of
    directors and executive officers under the federal securities
    laws is found in the Proxy Statement under  Other
    Matters   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance,  at page 115. That information
    is incorporated in this report by reference.

-81-

Code of
    Ethics  

We have adopted a code of ethics that complies with the
    applicable SEC and New York Stock Exchange requirements. The
    code is set forth in:

The Red Book,  a comprehensive code of ethical and legal
    business conduct applicable to all employees worldwide and to
    our Board of Directors; and

Code of Ethical Conduct for Lilly Financial Management , a
    supplemental code for our chief executive officer, chief
    operating officer, and all members of financial management that
    focuses on accounting, financial reporting, internal controls,
    and financial stewardship.

Both documents are online on our web site at
    http://investor.lilly.com/code    business    conduct.cfm.

In the event of any amendments to, or waivers from, a provision
    of the code affecting the chief executive officer, chief
    financial officer, chief accounting officer, controller, or
    persons performing similar functions, we intend to post on the
    above web site within four business days after the event a
    description of the amendment or waiver as required under
    applicable SEC rules. We will maintain that information on our
    web site for at least 12 months. Paper copies of these
    documents are available free of charge upon request to the
    company s secretary at the address on the front of this
     Form 10-K. 

Corporate
    Governance  

In our proxy statements, we describe the procedures by which
    shareholders can recommend nominees to our board of directors.
    There have been no changes in those procedures since they were
    last published in our proxy statement of March 5, 2007.

The board has appointed an audit committee consisting entirely
    of independent directors in accordance with applicable SEC and
    New York Stock Exchange rules for audit committees. The members
    of the committee are Mr. J. Michael Cook (chairman),
    Michael L. Eskew, Dr. Martin S. Feldstein,
    Dr. Franklyn G. Prendergast, and Ms. Kathi P. Seifert.
    The board has determined that Mr. Cook is an audit
    committee financial expert as defined in the SEC rules.

Item 11.    

Executive
    Compensation

Information on director compensation, executive compensation,
    and compensation committee matters can be found in the Proxy
    Statement under  Directors  Compensation  at
    pages  75-77, 
     Executive Compensation  at pages
     81-101,  and
     Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
    Participation  at page 80. That information is
    incorporated in this report by reference.

Item 12.    

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  

Information relating to ownership of the Company s common
    stock by management and by persons known by the Company to be
    the beneficial owners of more than five percent of the
    outstanding shares of common stock is found in the Proxy
    Statement under  Ownership of Company Stock,  at pages
     101-102. 
    That information is incorporated in this report by reference.

Securities
    Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation
    Plans  

Information on securities authorized for issuance under our
    equity compensation plans can be found in the Proxy Statement
    under  Item 5   Amendment of the 2002 Lilly
    Stock Plan  at page 108.

-82-

Item 13.    

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Related
    Person Transactions  

Information relating to a time-share arrangement between the
    company and Mr. Sidney Taurel, chairman and chief executive
    officer, relating to his personal use of the corporate aircraft
    can be found in the Proxy Statement under  Related Person
    Transaction  at pages
     100-101,  and
    information relating to the board s policies and procedures
    for approval of related person transactions can be found in the
    Proxy Statement under  Highlights of the Company s
    Corporate Governance Guidelines   Review and Approval
    of Transactions with Related Persons  at pages
     72-73.  That
    information is incorporated in this report by reference.

Director
    Independence  

Information relating to director independence can be found in
    the Proxy Statement under  Composition of the
    Board   Independence Determinations  at pages
     69-70  and is
    incorporated in this report by reference.

Item 14.    

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services

Information related to the fees and services of our independent
    auditor, Ernst   Young LLP, can be found in the Proxy
    Statement under  Services Performed by the Independent
    Auditor  and  Independent Auditor Fees  at
    page 79. That information is incorporated in this report by
    reference.

Item 15.    

Exhibits and
    Financial Statement Schedules

(a)1.     Financial
    Statements  

The following consolidated financial statements of the Company
    and its subsidiaries are found at Part II, Item 8:

(a)2.     Financial
    Statement Schedules  

The consolidated financial statement schedules of the Company
    and its subsidiaries have been omitted because they are not
    required, are inapplicable, or are adequately explained in the
    financial statements.

Financial statements of interests of 50 percent or less,
    which are accounted for by the equity method, have been omitted
    because they do not, considered in the aggregate as a single
    subsidiary, constitute a significant subsidiary.

(a)3.     Exhibits  

3

.1

Amended Articles of Incorporation

3

.2

By-laws, as amended

4

.1

Rights Agreement dated as of July 20, 1998, between Eli
    Lilly and Company and Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., as successor
    Rights Agent

4

.2

Amendment No. 1 to Rights Agreement dated as of
    May 27, 2003, between Eli Lilly and Company and Wells Fargo
    Bank Minnesota, N.A., as successor Rights Agent

-83-

4

.3

Form of Indenture with respect to Debt Securities dated as of
    February 1, 1991, between Eli Lilly and Company and
    Citibank, N.A., as Trustee

4

.4

Form of Standard Multiple-Series Indenture Provisions
    dated, and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on,
    February 1, 1991

4

.5

Form of Indenture dated March 10, 1998, among The Lilly
    Savings Plan Master Trust Fund C, as issuer; Eli Lilly
    and Company, as guarantor; and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as
    Trustee, relating to ESOP Amortizing Debentures due
    2017 1 

4

.6

Form of Fiscal Agency Agreement dated May 30, 2001, between
    Eli Lilly and Company and Citibank, N.A., Fiscal Agent, relating
    to Resetable Floating Rate Debt Security due May 15,
    2037 1 

4

.7

Form of Resetable Floating Rate Debt Security due May 15,
    2037 1 

10

.1

1994 Lilly Stock Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.2

1998 Lilly Stock Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.3

2002 Lilly Stock Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.4

Lilly GlobalShares Stock Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.5

The Lilly Deferred Compensation Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.6

The Lilly Directors  Deferral Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.7

The Eli Lilly and Company Bonus Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.8

2007 Change in Control Severance Pay Plan for Select Employees,
    as
    amended 2 

10

.9

Letter agreement between the company and Charles E. Golden
    concerning retirement
    benefits 2 

10

.10

Letter agreement between the company and Steven M.
    Paul, M.D. concerning retirement
    benefits 2 

10

.11

Arrangement regarding retirement benefits for Robert A.
    Armitage 2 

10

.12

Time Sharing Agreement between the company and Sidney Taurel for
    use of corporate aircraft

10

.13

Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among the Company, Tour
    Merger Sub, Inc. and ICOS Corporation

10

.14

Amendment No. 1 to the above-listed Agreement and Plan of
    Merger

12

.

Statement re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

21

.

List of Subsidiaries

23

.

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

31

.1

Rule 13a-14(a) 
    Certification of Sidney Taurel, Chairman of the Board and Chief
    Executive Officer

31

.2

Rule 13a-14(a) 
    Certification of Derica W. Rice, Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer

32

.

Section 1350 Certification

1  This
    exhibit is not filed with this report. Copies will be furnished
    to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

2  Indicates
    management contract or compensatory plan.

-84-

Signatures  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned
    thereunto duly authorized.

Eli Lilly
    and Company  

By 

/s/  Sidney
    Taurel

Sidney Taurel, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

February 28, 2008

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below on February 28,
    2008 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
    the capacities indicated.

Signature

Title

/s/  Sidney
    Taurel

SIDNEY
    TAUREL

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and a Director
    (principal executive officer)

/s/  Derica
    W. Rice

DERICA
    W. RICE

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
    (principal financial officer)

/s/  Arnold
    C. Hanish

ARNOLD
    C. HANISH

Chief Accounting Officer 
    (principal accounting officer)

/s/  Sir
    Winfried Bischoff

SIR
    WINFRIED BISCHOFF

Director

/s/  J.
    Michael Cook

J.
    MICHAEL COOK

Director

/s/  Michael
    L. Eskew

MICHAEL
    L. ESKEW

Director

/s/  Martin
    S. Feldstein

MARTIN
    S. FELDSTEIN, Ph.D.

Director

/s/  George
    M. C. Fisher

GEORGE
    M. C. FISHER

Director

/s/  J.
    Erik Fyrwald

J.
    ERIK FYRWALD

Director

/s/  Karen
    N. Horn

KAREN
    N. HORN, Ph.D.

Director

/s/  Alfred
    G. Gilman

ALFRED
    G. GILMAN, M.D., Ph.D.

Director

-85-

Signature

Title

/s/  John
    C. Lechleiter

JOHN
    C. LECHLEITER, Ph.D.

Director

/s/  Ellen
    R. Marram

ELLEN
    R. MARRAM

Director

/s/  Franklyn
    G. Prendergast

FRANKLYN
    G. PRENDERGAST, M.D., Ph.D.

Director

/s/  Kathi
    P. Seifert

KATHI
    P. SEIFERT

Director

-86-

Trademarks
    Used In This Report

Trademarks or service marks owned by Eli Lilly and Company or
    its subsidiaries or affiliates, when first used in this report,
    appear with an initial capital and are followed by the
    symbol   
    or  tm  ,
    as applicable. In subsequent uses of the marks in the report,
    the symbols are omitted.

Actos   
    is a trademark of Takeda Chemical Industries, Ltd.

Axid   
    is a trademark of Reliant Pharmaceuticals, LLC

Byetta   
    is a trademark of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Vancocin   
    is a trademark of ViroPharma Incorporated

-87-

Index to
    Exhibits  

The following documents are filed as part of this report:

* Not filed with this report.
    Copies will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange
    Commission upon request.

-88-

Exhibit  

Location  

10

.6

The Lilly Directors  Deferral Plan, as amended

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.7 to the
    Company s Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2003

10

.7

The Eli Lilly and Company Bonus Plan, as amended

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company s Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended September 30, 2006

10

.8

2007 Change in Control Severance Pay Plan for Select Employees,
    as amended

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company s Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the quarter ended September 30, 2006

10

.9

Letter agreement between the Company and Charles E. Golden
    concerning retirement benefits

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.13 to the
    Company s Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2004

10

.10

Letter agreement between the Company and Steven M.
    Paul, M.D. concerning retirement benefits

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.14 to the
    Company s Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2004

10

.11

Arrangement regarding retirement benefits for Robert A. Armitage

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.15 to the
    Company s Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2004

10

.12

Time Sharing Agreement between the Company and Sidney Taurel for
    use of corporate aircraft

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.16 to the
    Company s Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2004

10

.13

Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among the Company, Tour
    Merger Sub, Inc. and ICOS Corporation

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 2.1 to the
     Form 8-K 
    filed by ICOS Corporation on October 17, 2006

10

.14

Amendment No, 1 to the above-referenced Agreement and Plan of
    Merger

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 2.1 to the
     Form 8-K 
    filed by ICOS Corporation on December 18, 2006

12

Statement re:  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

Attached

21

List of Subsidiaries

Attached

23

Consent of Registered Independent Public Accounting Firm

Attached

31

.1

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Sidney Taurel, Chairman of the
    Board and Chief Executive Officer

Attached

31

.2

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Derica W. Rice, Senior Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer

Attached

32

Section 1350 Certification

Attached

-89-

<EX-12>
 2
 c24001exv12.htm
 STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

exv12 

EXHIBIT 12. STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Eli Lilly and Company and Subsidiaries  
(Dollars in millions)

1 
       
     Interest is based upon interest expense reported as such in the consolidated income statement
and does not include any interest related to unrecognized tax benefits, which is included in
income tax expense. 

1 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 3
 c24001exv21.htm
 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

exv21 

Exhibit 21   List of Subsidiaries   Affiliates 

The following are the subsidiaries and affiliated corporations of the Company at December 31, 2007 
Certain subsidiaries have been omitted as they are not significant in the aggregate. 

State or Jurisdiction  

of Incorporation  

or Organization  

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY

Indiana 

Eli Lilly International Corporation

Indiana 

Lilly HK Finance I Limited

Hong Kong 

Lilly HK Finance II Limited

Hong Kong 

Eli Lilly Funding Partnership

Hong Kong 

Eli Lilly Funding II Partnership

Hong Kong 

Eli Lilly Holdings Ltd.

United Kingdom 

Eli Lilly Group Limited

United Kingdom 

Eli Lilly Group Pension Trustees Limited

United Kingdom 

Eli Lilly and Company Limited

United Kingdom 

Eli Lilly and Company (Ireland) Trustees Limited

Ireland 

Lilly Pharma Holding GmbH

Germany 

Lilly Deutschland GmbH

Germany 

Lilly Pharma Fertigung   Distribution GmbH

Germany 

Lilly Pharma Produktion GmbH   Co. KG

Germany 

Lilly Forschung GmbH

Germany 

Eli Lilly Ges.m.b.H.

Austria 

Lilly GmbH

Germany 

Eli Lilly and Company (Ireland) Limited

Ireland 

ELCO Insurance Company Limited

Bermuda 

Lilly Ilac Ticaret Limited Sirketi

Turkey 

Eli Lilly Interamerica, Inc.

Indiana 

Eli Lilly do Brasil Limitada

Brazil 

Elanco Quimica Limitada

Brazil 

Darilor Sociedad Anonima

Uruguay 

Beirmirco Sociedad Anonima

Uruguay 

Eli Lilly Interamerica Inc., y Compania Limitada

Chile 

ELCO International Sales Corporation

U.S. Virgin Islands 

Control Diabetes Services, Inc.

Indiana 

STC Pharmaceuticals

Indiana 

ICOS Corporation

Washington 

Lilly ICOS LLC

Delaware 

Page 1 of 4 

State or Jurisdiction  

of Incorporation  

or Organization  

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY (continued)

Eli Lilly Finance, S.A.

Switzerland 

Lilly Del Mar, Inc.

British Virgin Islands 

Scienteur Corporation

Indiana 

ELIIC Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

InnoCentive Innovations, Inc.

Delaware 

Lilly Global Services, Inc.

Indiana 

Applied Molecular Evolution

Delaware 

Novasite Pharmaceuticals

Delaware 

AME Torreview LLC

Delaware 

Eli Lilly Funding Ltd.

Hong Kong 

Dista, Inc.

Indiana 

Eli Lilly Holding Company Ltd.

United Kingdom 

Eli Lilly Holding GmbH

Germany 

Eli Lilly Spain Holding ETVE, S.L.

Spain 

Eli Lilly Nederland Holding B.V.

Netherlands 

Eli Lilly and Company (Tawian), Inc.

Taiwan 

Eli Lilly de Centro America, S.A.

Guatemala 

Eli Lilly de Centro America, Sociedad Anonima

Costa Rica 

Eli Lilly y Compania de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Dista Mexicana, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Eli Lilly Industries, Inc.

Delaware 

Del Sol Financial Services, Inc.

British Virgin Islands 

Lilly del Caribe, Inc.

Cayman Islands 

ELCO Dominicana, S.A.

Dominican Republic 

Eli Lilly Asia, Inc.

Delaware 

Eli Lilly Australia Pty. Limited

Australia 

Eli Lilly Australia Custodian Pty. Limited

Australia 

Eli Lilly and Company (N.Z.) Limited

New Zealand 

Eli Lilly (NZ) Staff Benefits Custodian Limited

New Zealand 

Page 2 of 4 

State or Jurisdiction  

of Incorporation  

or Organization  

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY (continued)

Eli Lilly de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Lilly Singapore Centre for Drug Discovery

Singapore 

Hypnion, Inc.

Delaware 

Ivy Animal Health, Inc.

Delaware 

ELCO Management, Inc.

Delaware 

E L Management LLC

Delaware / Canada 

Eli Lilly Canada Inc.

Canada 

Lilly Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Lilly Holdings GmbH

Austria 

Eli Lilly S.A.

Switzerland 

Eli Lilly Export S.A.

Switzerland 

Eli Lilly (Suisse) S.A.

Switzerland 

Eli Lilly Vostok S.A., Geneva

Switzerland 

Eli Lilly Trading S.A.

Switzerland 

Lilly Cayman Holdings

Cayman Islands 

Eli Lilly Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.

China 

GEMS Services S.A.

Belgium 

Eli Lilly Suzhou Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd.

China 

Eli Lilly Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

Lilly France S.A.S.

France 

Eli Lilly Benelux, S.A.

Belgium 

Eli Lilly Italia S.p.A.

Italy 

Dista-Produtos Quimicos   Farmaceuticos, LDA

Portugal 

Lilly-Farma, Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.

Portugal 

Vital Pharma Productos Farmaceuticos

Portugal 

Greenfield-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.

Portugal 

Elanco-Valquimica, S.A.

Spain 

Dista, S.A.

Spain 

Spaly Bioquimica, S.A.

Spain 

Irisfarma S.A.

Spain 

Lilly S.A.

Spain 

Eli Lilly Nigeria Ltd.

Nigeria 

Lilly Development Centre, S.A.

Belgium 

Lilly Services, S.A.

Belgium 

Lilly Clinical Operations S.A.

Belgium 

Eli Lilly CR s.r.o.

Czech Republic 

Eli Lilly Egypt

Egypt 

ELCO Foreign Trade and Marketing SAE

Egypt 

Pharmaserve-Lilly S.A.C.I.

Greece 

Pharmabrand, S.A.C.I.

Greece 

PRAXICO Ltd.

Hungary 

Lilly Hungaria KFT

Hungary 

PaRxner B.V.

Netherlands 

Page 3 of 4 

State or Jurisdiction  

of Incorporation  

or Organization  

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY (continued)

ELCO Management, Inc. (continued)

Lilly Holdings, LLC (continued)

Lilly Holdings GmbH (continued)

Eli Lilly S.A. (continued)

Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. (continued)

Eli Lilly (Philippines), Incorporated

Philippines 

Eli Lilly and Company (India) Pvt. Ltd.

India 

Eli Lilly Israel Ltd.

Israel 

Eli Lilly Japan K.K.

Japan 

Lilly Korea Ltd.

Korea 

Elanco Animal Health, Korea, Ltd.

Korea 

Eli Lilly Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Eli Lilly Maroc, S.a.r.l.

Morocco 

Eli Lilly Pakistan (Pvt.) Ltd.

Pakistan 

Eli Lilly Polska Sp.z.o.o. (Ltd.)

Poland 

Vitalia Pharma Sp.Z.o.o.

Poland 

Eli Lilly Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Lilly-NUS Centre for Clinical Pharmacology

Singapore 

Eli Lilly (S.A.) (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa 

Eli Lilly y Compania de Venezuela, S.A.

Venezuela 

Dista Products   Compania Venezuela S.A.

Venezuela 

Eli Lilly Regional Operations GmbH

Austria 

Andean Technical Operations Center

Peru 

Eli Lilly Asian Operations, Limited

Hong Kong 

Dista Ilac Ticaret Ltd. Sti.

Turkey 

Eli Lilly Slovakia s.r.o.

Slovakia 

Eli Lilly Romania SRL

Romania 

Eli Lilly Lithuania UAB

Lithuania 

Eli Lilly Hrvatska d.o.o.

Croatia 

Lilly Pharma Ltd.

Russia 

PT Eli Lilly Indonesia

Indonesia 

Eli Lilly European Clinical Trial Services, S.A.

Belgium 

Eli Lilly druzba za farmacevtski marketing, d.o.o.

Slovenia 

Elanco Trustees Limited

Ireland 

Kinsale Financial Services, Ltd.

Ireland 

ELGO Insurance Company Limited

Bermuda 

Eli Lilly Services, Inc.

British Virgin Islands 

Eli Lilly British Virgin Islands, Inc.

British Virgin Islands 

Eli Lilly Danmark A/S

Denmark 

OY Eli Lilly Finland AB

Finland 

Eli Lilly Norge A.S.

Norway 

Eli Lilly Sweden AB

Sweden 

Page 4 of 4 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 c24001exv23.htm
 CONSENT OF REGISTERED INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23 

Exhibit 23 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:

of our reports dated February 8, 2008, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Eli
Lilly and Company and subsidiaries and the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting of Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries included in this Annual Report (10-K) for the
year ended December 31, 2007.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP 
Ernst   Young LLP

Indianapolis, Indiana 
February 28, 2008

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 c24001exv31w1.htm
 CERTIFICATION

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 
       
     Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Sidney Taurel, Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer 

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Sidney Taurel, chairman of the board and chief executive officer, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Eli Lilly and Company;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act  Rules
13a-15(f)  and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a. 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b. 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c. 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d. 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a. 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b. 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 28, 2008

By:   
          /s/ Sidney Taurel

Sidney Taurel  

Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 c24001exv31w2.htm
 CERTIFICATION

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2 
       
     Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Derica W. Rice, Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer 

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Derica W. Rice, senior vice president and chief financial officer, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Eli Lilly and Company;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act  Rules
13a-15(f)  and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a. 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b. 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c. 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d. 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a. 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b. 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 28, 2008

By:   
          /s/ Derica W. Rice

Derica W. Rice  

Senior Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 7
 c24001exv32.htm
 CERTIFICATION

exv32 

Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section
1350, chapter 63 of title 18, United States Code), each of the undersigned officers of Eli
Lilly and Company, an Indiana corporation (the  Company ), does hereby certify that, to the
best of their knowledge:

The Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the  Form 10-K ) of the
Company fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

Date    February 28, 2008  
      /s/ Sidney Taurel

Sidney Taurel  

Chairman of the Board and 
     Chief Executive Officer  

Date    February 28, 2008  
      /s/ Derica W. Rice

Derica W. Rice  

Senior Vice President and 
     Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-32>

